if the european union is to become a community of values - if we are to play a true role in the new global governance , then we need to be promoting the values of the geneva conventions not only to our own soldiers and security forces , but also to people in our civilian societies .
we need to be working hard to combat racism and xenophobia .
mr president , i am in sincere agreement with what was said in the previous speech .
yesterday , in one excellent speech , someone said that we have a moral obligation to defend and develop democracy and human rights .
what this moral obligation actually entails and the extent of our efforts and commitment will , however , come to light in the context of that wretched reality represented by wars and armed conflicts .
mr president , in response to a question put to him during a radio interview on 20 january last , the russian ambassador to paris declared that what the russians were doing in chechnya was fighting terrorism and that europe and the whole world would subsequently thank russia , when they understood the issue .
at a time when we are celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of a great landmark in humanitarian international law , the geneva convention , we cannot ignore that fact that all the points of the geneva convention are being violated on our doorstep , even though the russians may say that this is not a state of war but a state of emergency .
if we genuinely want our action to have any effect , we must send a delegation from the european parliament to chechnya and the governments must undertake to abide by paragraph 6 of the resolution , which we may shortly be voting on , in which parliament calls upon the council to ensure that cooperation with third countries is dependent upon reports on their application of human rights .
i would also like to congratulate the portuguese presidency because once again , it appears that it attended virtually all important debates this week .
yugoslavia proved that europe will remain vulnerable as long as the union limits itself in scope to western europe .
or asia , burma , in particular , where entire groups of the population are being driven out of their traditional areas with military force .
sudan , where the southern population has been on the run from the northern rulers for years and where martial law is ignored .
at the same time , the geneva convention is also a beacon because we now have a tool by means of which we can expose inhumanities and because we can also report on positive developments .
so there is a solution to all these humanitarian issues which are referred to the geneva convention , and this solution is co-determined by us on a daily basis within our european parliament , where 15 nationalities cooperate in a peaceful manner .
we should not turn a blind eye to the suffering around us but we should also be grateful for being able to live in peace and prosperity here in western europe , hoping that this peace and prosperity , as well as an end to all violence , will reach all corners of the globe : in eastern europe , south-eastern europe , asia , africa and anywhere else in desperate need of this .
as for the second section of the convention , and in particular articles 13 and 14 , which refer to protection from the effects of war for the wounded , the sick , the aged , children and expectant mothers , here it really is worth pausing to consider kosovo and the findings of the relevant un report .
the best way , therefore , of celebrating the 50th anniversary of the geneva convention is to strengthen the democratic and political facets of the union , so that it can play a more decisive role on the international stage and solve any differences using peaceful means which respect human rights and , more importantly , respect everything set out in this truly wonderful geneva convention .
article 23 of the universal islamic declaration of human rights says that no one shall be forced to leave the country of his residence or be arbitrarily deported therefrom .
nine years later , more than 600 prisoners of war are unreleased and unaccounted for by iraq .
unscom has destroyed 38 000 chemical weapons munitions , 690 tonnes of chemical weapons agents , 3 000 tonnes of precursor chemicals , 48 scud missiles and a biological weapons factory designed to produce up to 50 000 litres of anthrax , botulism toxin and other agents .
after nine years she has only provided information sufficient to close three files .
parliament has brought the fate of these prisoners to the public ' s attention three times since our appointment in july and has also asked the council to act in this matter .
the situation in kosovo has got considerably worse , not least because the albanians are concerned about the fate of their fellow countrymen in serbian prisons .
mr president , human rights are individual rights which have found their way into national constitutions and international agreements as universal and inalienable rights or standards .
they include the right to personal and political freedom and basic social and economic rights .
human rights are indivisible .
as a global actor , the european union must take greater account of human rights , both at home and abroad , in the form of a stronger human rights policy .
allow me to take this opportunity to express my full recognition of the major humanitarian work which the international red cross and other humanitarian organisations carry out in regard both to spreading knowledge of the humanitarian principles as expressed in the geneva conventions and to providing aid to war victims throughout the world .
allow me to illustrate the constantly widening gulf that exists between , on the one hand , the principles contained in the conventions and , on the other hand , current observance of these by pointing out that , in conflicts in the course of the last decade , 10 times as many civilians have been killed as soldiers .
the widening gulf between principles and practice is due , in my opinion , to the fact that the character of wars has changed during the last 50 years .
more and more wars are fought under conditions of anarchy in which there are no stable structures and in which the areas hit by war are not controlled by any government .
the world has also witnessed a growing number of wars in which weapons have deliberately been aimed at civilians and the purpose of which has been to annihilate specific groups in society .
in these situations , humanitarian aid to victims is naturally unwelcome , and this leaves the world in a terrible dilemma .
the other option is to ensure that the humanitarian principles established in the geneva conventions are in actual fact observed , for example , by improving the mechanisms for enforcing them .
thank you very much , mr nielson .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday .
after the horrors of the second world war , many surely felt a strong sense of hope for a better world and a more humane future .
unfortunately , these hopes have , in many respects , been dashed .
a large proportion of the world 's population is still living under oppression , with many deprived of their basic rights .
the eu is therefore in desperate need of a coordinated , strategic and consistent policy in this area .
in my opinion some of these deficiencies are linked to structural barriers and precisely this lack of a common strategy within the eu in the area of human rights .
we need increased coordination , not just between the institutions of the eu , but also between the eu and the member states .
human rights must be integrated into the eu 's activities naturally : in aid , in trade , in economic , cultural and political cooperation .
i would also like to say a few words about women 's rights , an issue that i have chosen as a special theme in the report .
the commission declared 1999 to be the year for combating violence against women .
reports abound on violence in the home , rapes , ritual violence and maltreatment in prisons .
in certain countries , the governments are employing a pure apartheid policy against women .
the countries of the eu must ratify the report of the proceedings of the international criminal court as soon as possible so that it can start work .
the eu can play an important part when it comes to encouraging countries to ratify different international conventions for the protection of human rights .
instead , the eu should have the status of a legal person , it should accede to the human rights conventions and , in that way , guarantee that human rights are respected , including in countries where the eu has jurisdiction .
i also hope that there will soon be a judgement ensuring that citizens are not only entitled to form trade unions but also to be free to join them .
i think that bosnia and kosovo have taught us all that national minorities constitute the most potentially explosive factor in the europe of the future .
now , i think , they should put matters in order in their own countries and get these conventions signed .
i could talk at length , partly about the conditions to which asylum seekers are subject in our member states .
if only half of what is stated in the reports by amnesty international and human rights watch is correct , then the situation regarding the treatment of asylum seekers is indefensible .
technology is developing and so too , therefore , must our instruments for the protection of human rights .
mr president , this report builds on previous excellent work in the european parliament and other eu institutions .
i very much welcome the positioning of the fight against race discrimination firmly in a human rights context by placing it in this joint debate because that is very much the approach taken in this report .
thirdly my report notes that racial prejudice and discrimination poisons our whole society , including for white people .
surveys show that racism has increased and there is an increase in racist violence and support for extremist parties .
on the other hand there is also progress , however bumpy , and some regions and cities in europe are becoming at ease with a multi-racial and multi-cultural way of life .
the second area where there are apparently epp-ed hesitations is regarding enhanced rights for legally resident third country nationals of which there are around 20 million in the union .
the third area which i understand creates some problems for the epp-ed group is the belief that this report breaches subsidiarity by mentioning matters like education and policing .
i believe this report will get majority support here in plenary .
could i just finally say that i can accept some of the amendments from the green group and the gue , particularly the one which i welcome to replace the term " holocaust " by " shoah " .
racism , xenophobia and antisemitism are realities in eastern and western europe alike .
the european parliament sets great store by countering racism , xenophobia and antisemitism in the candidate countries , as is evident from the report and opinions .
the same goes for jews and germans , and for jews and czechs in czechoslovakia , jews and germans in poland and jews and turks in bulgaria .
paragraph 32 of the draft resolution should be read against this dark background .
it would mean a great deal to me if this were to be accomplished .
i would make two or three other very simple points .
the example of afghanistan illustrates that discrimination against women is not a cultural but a political phenomenon .
in many african countries , women are not allowed to own any possessions or open a bank account without the permission of a man .
we must condemn all practices which lead to the mutilation or death of women .
but the atrocities in the rest of the world should not blind us to the atrocities in our own countries .
domestic violence is still a huge problem within the european union .
a powerful and concerted effort is needed from all member states to fight this outrageous form of trafficking in human beings .
mr president , this report sends a powerful message to the council and commission .
mr president , i would like to touch briefly on two points , which are based on the fact that , frequently , the west is not only a participant but also a protagonist in violations of human rights .
we feel that the right to development should be a global priority and that it is an essential condition if human rights policies in these countries are to be genuinely implementable .
lastly , i would like to take this opportunity to remind the house that over a hundred members ' signatures have been collected in support of the nomination of the mothers of plaza de mayo for the nobel peace prize .
the commission needs this aid .
the report contains a number of excellent and well-considered proposals .
you will all be aware of the example , recently reported in the french press , of a young man from strasbourg who sent two completely identical curricula vitæ to the same company .
equal rights means being entitled to vote and fighting against all forms of discrimination , whether spatial , geographical , social or racial .
for example , the right to immigration does not exist .
of course , an immigrant coming from outside the union has the right to enjoy his rights , but imposing limits or controls on immigration cannot be classed as racism or xenophobia , for the very reason that there is no mention of a right to immigrate in any text .
many of them abuse their women and , more importantly , their children .
mr president , the 1998 / 1999 annual report on respecting human rights within the eu has gone far beyond its own brief .
but in contrast to what is stated in the report , we cannot prevent racism and xenophobia by adopting a unilateral , positive approach to the multi-cultural society as a " source of social vitality " .
we have several basic principles .
the first is not to take account of issues falling outside the time framework of this report which relates to 1998 and 1999 .
we have also wanted to avoid , where possible , countries being mentioned or highlighted when the report on human rights for this year does not contain a systematic analysis of each country .
the next report to be put to the vote should be awaited with even more trepidation and should clearly show the interest which our union takes in human rights within our community .
we have problems in the candidate countries .
we have pictures on our tv almost every day of child soldiers fighting in conflicts throughout the world .
in 1998 my own government appointed a child rights expert from save the children to the foreign and commonwealth office to develop strategies and practical projects in relation to children 's rights .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in view of our discussion of these reports on human rights inside and outside the european union , the time is therefore right to consider the cross-influences between the ' inside ' and the ' outside ' .
it is therefore unacceptable that the readmission agreements can allow a third country national to be returned to his or her country when we know that this country more often than not does not guarantee respect for human rights and democratic freedoms .
these readmission agreements are dangerous for asylum-seekers , for the dissemination of human rights throughout the world and for the international stature of the european union .
on human rights , the union could take pride in being the first in history to define citizenship according to a principle of residence instead of establishing discrimination based on nationality .
mr president , this debate is taking place at an important moment for this parliament .
a year after waging war against yugoslavia in the name of human rights , we have remained passive in the face of an even greater violation of these rights on the part of russia in chechnya .
this year we have also seen a racist and xenophobic party enter government in austria , and in spain we have also seen an outbreak of racist violence in el ejido .
this has also been the year in which the catholic church has issued a mea culpa on violations of human rights committed throughout history .
to this end , we in the european union could develop a more constructive attitude .
i therefore propose five points , which are the contributions of the gue / ngl group to the various reports .
firstly , to abandon all hypocrisy and treat all countries in the same way ; secondly , to commit ourselves to defending , at all costs , human rights everywhere , including in the economic field , in factories ; thirdly , to show a special concern for human rights throughout the world , in latin america ( in mexico , in argentina , in peru ) etc . ; fourthly , to accept unreservedly the cause of human rights for women ; and lastly , to recommend the ratification of the international criminal court .
we particularly welcome the fact that the problem of religious freedom was mentioned , as some countries , especially the czech republic , have already passed very restrictive laws against religious minorities .
whoever takes political responsibility for this anti-fascist punch and judy show here in the house and in the eu countries in question has cause to be proud .
if this irrational collective hatred against an entire nation can be so readily called upon in the eu , we are a long way from being in a position to dictate to other countries .
mr president , there is something rather pathetic in our determination to link human rights to the european project whose very logic questions and even threatens those rights .
in our opinion , human rights cannot be envisaged without a political society and , in particular , without this supreme form of the peaceful political society which is the nation , in terms of both civil peace and balance between nations , and therefore international peace .
however , i would stress that these remarks are out of place in a report on human rights .
these remarks have no place in a document on human rights , as they should not be using up the time allocated to the baroness ' s report , and so they have acquired the bitter taste of political exploitation of a very serious issue such as human rights .
throughout the document , the identity of europeans , of the european nations , is not once referred to in a positive sense but always as a possible framework for xenophobia and racism .
a multicultural europe which does not include european culture would lead to disaster and its decline .
it seems to me to be a very comprehensive report and to make some very striking points .
i would like to draw the house ' s attention to three key points concerning human rights as i see this issue at present .
this is serious , as whilst it may be true that water is becoming ever more important in economic terms , it is also true that the right to water is a human and social right for everyone .
i would therefore like to draw honourable members ' attention to precisely this issue , water , which is going to be one of the most hotly debated subjects this year .
the situation is becoming ever more critical , but the right to water also has to be seen as a human right .
the second point that i would like to mention today , very briefly , is the situation in angola .
i believe that this is exactly what has happened - a veil of silence has been drawn over events in angola , a country which has been in a state of permanent war for 40 years and at civil war for 25 years .
we need to have a clearer and better informed view of events in angola , as i said in this house when we were discussing the issue of attacks on journalists ' rights .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i have taken the floor to explain the reasons why i am going to vote against the motion and my concern over two issues , which were included in the resolution at the request of some members , who , i feel , are trying to exploit the credibility of the european parliament in order to further their own interests , which conflict with the general interests of the community as a whole and italy in particular .
i refer , mr president , to point 38 and points 41 and 42 of the haarder report .
point 38 , which was amended for the worse by amendment no 22 , cited again today in the chamber , imposes on italy - and who knows why italy should be singled out - in order to guarantee the impartiality of judges , not the separation of judicial and political authorities , as advocated by montesquieu , but the separation , within the judiciary , of the careers of judges responsible for giving rulings and investigating magistrates .
mr president , these reports are heading in the right direction but we cannot accept the self-satisfaction of the recitals in the current treaties .
to be effective , the fight against discrimination requires broader and , in particular , more specific measures .
in the same way , full citizenship implies giving third country nationals resident in the european union the right to vote in all elections .
if their status as taxpayers justifies their access to this right , why limit this to the local and european levels ?
this would mean breaking with the provisions of the schengen , amsterdam and dublin treaties which are real insults to the right of asylum .
there continues to be a barbarous war in iraq .
it is a war against children and the innocent citizens of that country .
shame on us in the european union for not stamping out racism and xenophobia which are endemic in my country and in the eu in general .
i want to say to my government that we must do the same at home in ireland .
we need to help the candidate member states in a critical , yet constructive , way and not be afraid to call a spade a spade .
the belder report contains a few concrete pointers in this respect .
it is true that proposals on voting rights for foreigners do not fit in at all in a report on xenophobia , but we do agree on the principle of drafting a recommendation in this respect .
i have subscribed to this practice in the netherlands for some 25 years , starting with the south moluccans .
the committee spent days discussing them and then voted on a largely amended report and now we have another 69 proposed amendments here in plenary .
they want to use this forum to bring their platitudes to the attention of as wide an audience as possible throughout the world .
the annual debate on these matters paves the way for the basic political orientation of the european union .
anyone who abuses a human rights report in order to make national domestic policy has missed the point completely .
anyone who wants to hold a serious discussion on human rights in the eu should talk about human rights and not abuse these valuable and excellent reports for tactical domestic policy games . ( applause ) mr president , although the debate is not yet finished , i would nevertheless like to take the opportunity to thank my colleagues for their comments and support and also for the fruitful cooperation we have experienced in the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy while working on this report .
in the basque country , where , despite the problems we face , we can choose the language of our children ' s education , the spanish supreme court has declared that it is illegal for local authorities to join together to promote the development of the language , in a clear example of how legal interpretations can be forced through as a result of political intentions and of how not all rights are respected here and now in the european union .
chirac speaks of the rights of the inuits in quebec , but ignores linguistic rights in france .
the italian constitution is the result of the great historical agreement between all the democratic forces which fought against fascism and to liberate italy during the second world war .
mr president , the ludford and haarder reports clearly show the vigour with which some people seem to be trying to mimic the united states of america in its less useful contributions to the development of society .
we will have to establish controlled records or , in other words , conduct a policy of racial discrimination of the masochistic type known as positive discrimination .
you are forgetting that families obtain their rights from the state and from the nations clearly because they allow the state and the nations to continue in existence and because they have a common interest .
mr president , as usual each spring , between the flowering of the plum and cherry trees , we are treated to a fashion show of the latest moral and intellectual campaigns in the fight against satan , his vanities and his works or , to use the accepted expression , against xenophobia , racism and antisemitism .
the english philosopher john locke once said that a country without law is a country without freedom .
fifty years after the signing of the european convention on human rights , twenty years after the helsinki final act , ten years after the collapse of the berlin wall and one year after the coming into force of the amsterdam treaty , there are constitutional provisions remaining in the heart of europe which belong to the medieval age - provisions which have no place in a modern europe .
this is not , as some have tried to claim , an issue affecting only a few people ; it goes to the heart of the european union 's commitment to respect the convention on human rights , to its own treaties and to the rule of law .
there is much talk of a charter of fundamental rights .
i speak as someone with a deep and abiding love for italy and its people , but i say here to you today , and to president ciampi of italy , that italy had neither the moral nor the legal right to sign the treaty of amsterdam until it had removed this most blatant violation of the convention from its own constitution .
i therefore commend paragraphs 41 and 42 to this house .
mr president , respect for human rights is one of the european union ' s cornerstones .
although i did not join the european parliament until last year , i happen to know that the handling of this annual human rights report has , over the past couple of years , always met with a great deal of political commotion and confusion .
should , in fact , the european policy on asylum and migration not lead to fewer human rights violations in this field ?
it is wise to remain vigilant when it comes to observing human rights of the extensive minorities in europe .
the reality is that millions of people live in poverty in our rich and privileged europe .
the report quite rightly describes this issue of poverty and disadvantage in terms of human rights , and this seems to be a step in the right direction .
the report also devotes attention to the issue of the equal treatment of men and women and the equal treatment of different types of relation and life styles , more so than in previous years .
mr president , there are still many people , some of which are in this house if this debate is anything to go by , who would like to give preferential treatment to marriage and family and , as such , openly insult and discriminate against anyone making a different choice in their private lives .
i agree with this criticism , despite the fact that , as chairman of the delegation for relations with the people 's republic of china , i risk receiving yet another protest letter from beijing asking whether the european parliament is waging a hostile campaign against china .
at the same time , the european union turns a blind eye to situations in which human rights are being savagely violated when , of course , it comes to protecting its imperialistic interests .
the recent and continuing invasion in kosovo , using the rights of minorities as a pretext , and the unbelievable demands being made on yugoslavia are a typical example of how military intervention is being advanced as a general principle of international law at the expense of the principle of national sovereignty .
the results of this policy are already visible in the support being given to extremist , racist , fascist powers , and not just in austria .
and yet the report on the fight against racism does not demonstrate that the necessary conclusions have been drawn .
we have talked about the defence of these human rights and i would now like to insist that if we proclaim human rights , it naturally follows that we must ensure that those rights can be exercised .
mr president , i will end as i began : this house must state loud and clear that the most important element of respecting human rights is the defence of the exercise of those rights - in full - in all cases and particularly in the face of those forces and organisations which hinder freedom of expression .
mr president , i want to speak for a few moments on the ludford report on countering racism in the european union .
their amendment no 12 seeks to delete reference to the need for family unity in europe .
they are against ethnic diversity and they do not accept the benefits given to our society by all its people .
their amendment no 21 deletes the call for encouragement to the ethnic minority to take part in elections to vote or stand as candidates .
we will publicise the epp position and their amendments whether they are passed or not .
so , i urge all colleagues to reject the amendments put forward by the european people 's party and their colleagues on the far right .
nowhere in this report are quotas mentioned .
this report is the annual debate on racism in the year 2000 .
in own nation , wales , for example , we have no empowerment to establish our own laws to counter racism and defend human rights .
the principles of cohesion and the drive to limit poverty and depravity in our communities are a well-settled concept in the european union .
however , it must encompass respect for minorities everywhere if it to inspire the world in its drive towards defeating racism and defending human rights .
we must start with ourselves if we want to build a world where everyone helps each other .
we will be able to intervene more effectively in countries which deny the existence of human and social rights - whether these are the rights of kurds , palestinians , chechens or the rights of afghan women - if we avoid hypocrisy .
our action to foster respect for human rights and create a fair society of creative coexistence therefore needs to be examined against a backdrop of policies and measures which seek to improve economic and social conditions for everyone and combat unemployment , poverty and social exclusion .
the new multicultural europe needs a policy which ensures that immigrants and different social groups and minorities are integrated into the social , political and economic life of national societies .
having respectively suffered 26 and 18 years of this vile torture of waiting on death row , they must immediately be set free .
as rapporteur , i obviously support the amendments of the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy .
i also support all the amendments intended to restore the position adopted by the european parliament at first reading .
this concerns amendments nos 17 , 16 and 19 in particular .
this would mean that the directive could be adopted by a qualified majority , and we would then be able to lay the directive to rest .
we do want the environmental directives to be applied and integrated into european policies but this must involve all the directives and not just the natura 2000 and migratory birds directives .
we do not in fact yet know whether we will be voting on this motion this morning as i was going to put this to the house .
madam president , i would like to remind you that you said that the previous vote would be the last one , and i would also like to point out that this resolution , which is the result of an unfortunate accumulation of two oral questions , in violation of the rules of procedure and normal practice , is causing complicated problems in all of the groups and i do not believe that this is the best way to deal with it .
madam president , i disagree with this decision .
absolutely , mrs banotti .
explanations of vote recommendation for second reading of the lannoye report ( a5-0047 / 2000 ) madam president , by tabling amendments to the chocolate directive , we have tried to offer better protection to those consumers who would like to know whether they are buying real chocolate or a product which , instead of cocoa butter , also contains fats of another origin .
the european parliament is clearly not in tune with public opinion in several respects .
we have not granted them this labelling on chocolate .
developing countries are also the victors .
debates about national tastes and products give us too far wide a sphere for ridiculous discussions .
this proposal in no way responds to the concerns expressed by meps during the vote at first reading on 23 october 1998 .
this is a largely artificial conflict between cocoa producers and shea producers , between poor countries and even poorer countries .
in reality , this proposed directive mainly reflects the position of the chocolate multinationals and defends only their interests with any certainty .
with the accession of new member states , the number of countries authorising vegetable fats other than cocoa butter increased to seven with the addition of finland - which authorises 10 % - austria , portugal and sweden .
the latter felt particularly threatened some years ago when europe , through certain harmonisation directives , tried to impose ' euro-products ' on us and they have demonstrated their desire to defend their culinary traditions .
a campaign has subsequently developed to promote food quality at the same time as food diversity .
the replacement of cocoa butter with other vegetable fats raises a question about protecting the very nature of chocolate .
in a europe which claims to want to protect the consumer and which talks of quality and authenticity labels , here we have a common position from the council which aims to change the nature of what has , up to now , been a quality product , namely chocolate , rather than upset the food multinationals .
you are accustomed to doing anything you like in the name of your dogmas , free movement , free competition and free trade .
more than twenty-five years after the first debate on chocolate in the european parliament and i am again involved in a discussion on the big question of whether a product can be called chocolate when it is not made exclusively from cocoa butter .
today , as twenty-five years ago , this question has divided this house to the point that my group did not produce a voting list and group discipline could not be imposed , which i love in such a case .
i can therefore freely come out in favour of the solution which seems best to me for the producers of real chocolate , as appreciated by the gourmets who believe in calling a spade a spade and calling chocolate chocolate , provided that it is actually made with cocoa butter .
in terms of chocolate , as in other areas , different cultures and traditions exist .
the situation being as it is , i would have preferred the common position to be rejected in the same way that i prefer good handmade chocolate to an industrial product which is currently unverifiable .
and the intention in adopting a new directive on chocolate products is precisely to improve competition in the eu .
although the construction of the internal market is a way to strengthen europe in the face of world competition , this must not lead to a totalitarian dogma and meddling at all levels of our home life .
the new directive does not meet any of the relevant needs .
the 1973 directive clearly and unambiguously defined chocolate as a product made with sugar and cocoa .
in effect , if the content of the directive is being changed , this is due to the pressure of the five multinationals - nestle , suchard , mars , cadbury and ferrero - which already share over 70 % of the european market but whose production capacity is hindered by the current dual legislation .
a site located in france , for example , cannot produce chocolate which does not meet the french standards .
cocoa butter represents 8 to 9 % of the total price of chocolate .
shea butter costs a third of the price of cocoa butter and palm oil butter is ten times cheaper .
to achieve their aim of being able to produce and sell imitation chocolate under the name of chocolate at a lower price throughout the union , these multinationals have worked ceaselessly to make the 1973 derogations the rule , regardless of the interests of chocolate makers and cocoa producers .
this house should challenge other member states to match britain 's example .
its recent wildlife bill , for example , will give greater protection to endangered species than ever before .
furthermore , ' right to roam ' legislation will give the british public the freedom to enjoy and appreciate our beautiful countryside .
madam president , coherent action is urgently required at local , national and european levels to clean up our land , sea and air .
separation of waste , including use of organic waste for composting , must be a priority in any waste strategy .
this is why the european union has adopted a comprehensive strategy to tackle this major environmental and health challenge .
the directive before us today is part of this strategy as it aims to regulate the thermal treatment of hazardous or non-hazardous waste .
i myself have always been doubtful about the incineration of hazardous waste being dealt with in the same legislation as the incineration of non-hazardous waste .
everyone knows that the volume of waste to be incinerated in the european union is set to increase .
thirty-one million tonnes of municipal waste were incinerated in 1990 and this figure will be in excess of 56 million this year .
there are several reasons for this , including the increase in the volume of waste produced and the fall in the quantity of waste sent to landfills .
the debate has particularly crystallised around co-incineration plants .
these use hazardous waste as fuel for the production of energy or physical elements .
in addition , the generalised use of this hazardous waste must not lead to the production of this waste becoming acceptable .
this directive also seeks to control the discharge of waste into our water systems .
this report is now before us at second reading .
i note that one of the recommendations from the european council is that , if an operator of a plant incinerating non-hazardous waste intends to start incinerating hazardous waste , an integrated pollution prevention and control licence must be secured .
all these measures reflect changing public opinions on the issue of waste management .
this is why the uen group has not supported the amendments which are inapplicable in our member states and whose anticipated economic consequences could prove to be very harmful .
the adoption of this directive on waste incineration , which will come into force with effect from 2005 , will considerably improve the current waste management framework in europe , by giving higher priority to important criteria such as public health and the protection of citizens ' rights .
as it is , given that this directive imposes strict technical , legal and operational restrictions on all incineration and co-incineration processes across europe , it will become more obvious that the strategy being pursued in portugal is deeply flawed .
i now believe that the common position submitted by the council is a very good compromise which i can support .
however , i must make one specific point about co-incineration in cement works and justify my vote against two amendments .
i voted against the first part of amendment no 25 , amending annex ii , which sets emission limit values for the cement industry and in particular the value of 15 mg / m3 for dust .
the majority of the member states currently have limit values of 50 mg / m3 .
in a recent cost-benefit analysis , the commission concluded that values of 30 mg / m3 are the best compromise .
to impose limit values of 15 mg / m3 would involve an excessive environmental cost and would not be profitable .
likening ' partially separated waste ' to ' untreated mixed municipal waste ' , as amendment no 14 does , risks affecting the development of the waste sorting sectors which we are trying to establish and in which some or all of the residues could be co-incinerated .
the aim of these proposals is to improve air quality and protect human health .
however , i believe that some countries are not prepared for this either practically or theoretically .
amendments to the legislation on co-incinerators or the specific treatment of hazardous waste risk creating cost distortions or even causing unjustified transportation of waste elsewhere .
the people of europe are under the impression that special , hazardous , non-hazardous and municipal waste will all be mixed together and undergo common treatment in the same kiln and in the same plant .
davies report ( a5-0062 / 2000 ) this debate on air quality concerns the particular problem of ozone in ambient air , as set out in the davies report .
it aims to amend the existing community legislation on ozone in accordance with the requirements of council directive 96 / 62 / ec on ambient air quality assessment and management .
it also introduces a framework of standards to protect human health and the environment .
the directive will therefore provide a benchmark for the levels of ozone in ambient air .
in setting long-term objectives , the commission proposes to use the 1997 world health organisation air quality guidelines .
the ultimate aim is to prevent these long-term objectives being exceeded and thereby avoid harmful effects on human health and the environment .
these are also based on the who guidelines , but it is accepted that these will be exceeded on a number of days each year .
success in meeting these commitments should enable member states to be more ambitious regarding target values for the reduction of ozone levels .
myller report ( a5-0063 / 2000 ) we are today debating a legislative proposal which affects us all directly as it aims to improve ambient air quality .
this proposed directive concerns national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants and comes under the framework directive on air quality .
the main objective is to limit emissions of acidifying and eutrophying pollutants and ozone precursors in order to improve the protection of the environment and human health against adverse effects from acidification , soil eutrophication and tropospheric ozone .
member states are therefore required to draw up programmes for the progressive reduction of their annual national emissions and report these to the commission before the end of 2002 .
the programmes are to be updated and revised by 2006 .
member states are also required to prepare , and regularly update , national emission inventories and emission projections for 2010 for so2 , nox , vocs and nh3 .
the report also asks the commission to propose new amendments to the directive by 2004 .
the commission could , in this way , revise the ceilings set in the text , the interim environmental targets and the new measures adopted to ensure respect for these ceilings .
in the same respect , penalties applicable to infringements of the directive ' s provisions must be established as quickly as possible .
we have chosen to vote against amendments nos 16 and 17 , because these proposals , in a much too general and undifferentiated way , relieve small member states of the need to achieve the environmental goals that have been established .
the preparation of a coherent and coordinated strategy involving all the member states is therefore essential .
i also welcome the idea of setting quantified objectives and benchmarks , in particular an annual average growth rate in the eu of 3 % and a level of employment of 70 % .
the presidency ' s document also stresses the necessary reinforcement of social convergence and the modernisation of our social protection systems .
the victims of long-term unemployment and social exclusion , and there are over 60 million of them , and european workers as a whole , have no intention of showing themselves to be ' mutually supportive ' , ' adaptable ' , ' docile ' and ' cooperative ' in their choices , as you will have them be .
racism , xenophobia and antisemitism are a depressing problem , including within the european union .
the way in which the social causes of racism in candidate countries and the highly significant social and employment policy consequences of a consistent anti-racist policy have been dealt with appears to me to be too general .
madam president , the presentation by the council of a first eu annual report on human rights was a welcome contribution to the on-going debate .
in particular i welcome the information it contains regarding the eu-china human rights dialogue .
while this dialogue can and does play a role in the transformation of human rights issues in china , it will only bear fruit if the european union speaks and acts as one .
too often in the past eu member states have allowed themselves to be blackmailed by china .
attempts to compromise are always interpreted as weakness by bullies , and china is such a bully .
the most basic violation of human rights is the denial of each individual ' s right to live decently .
everyone must be protected from poverty and exclusion .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , once again we are devoting part of our time in this chamber to one of the most honourable aspects of our parliamentary work : the defence of human rights of all kinds and in all parts of the world .
while we may not be able to devote to each report the time its importance would merit , we can safely say , when we discuss human rights elsewhere , in the rest of the world , that we have not omitted to carry out a serious analysis of shortcomings here in the european union itself .
whilst it is a fact - fortunately - that we here in the european union are not faced with the gross violations that we rather unjustly criticise in other states , our own member states still need to improve the way they respect these rights , economic and social rights , civil and political rights , with particular reference to respect for privacy and data protection for individuals , children ' s rights , women ' s rights and the rights of refugees who are immigrants here .
with regard to third countries it is vital , and urgent , for the european union to have a common strategy - to be prepared by the council in consultation with this parliament - which should consistently shape all the european union ' s policies , and in particular its development cooperation policy .
it makes no sense in terms of realpolitik for us to be more demanding in some areas than in others , for us to be more indulgent of some states than of others , and for us to pursue cooperation policies with some states that do not respect fundamental human rights , and where the rule of law has broken down and serious transgressions go unpunished .
if we continue to give political and economic support to countries where this is happening , we will be condoning regimes that do not respect human rights , countries where we can legitimately question whether community aid is reaching the people whose development we are endeavouring to promote , or whether we are simply maintaining the vanity , opulence and secret bank accounts of a handful of leaders .
even if we disagree on a report on racism , the reasons lie not in racism in parliament but in the report itself .
for example , the report not only contains laudable words on the fight against racism ; it also deals with matters such as the voting rights of third country nationals in specific countries or the right to hold public office , which may be decided one way or the other , but which have nothing whatsoever to do with racism .
i stand firmly against the way in which racism has been played down , as we have said , to make it a subject of political debate .
i wish to make two comments with respect to the reports in front of us ; one on the belder report , which contains a version of an amendment which i have tabled concerning the treatment of the russian-speaking minorities in estonia and latvia .
secondly , the ludford report has a series of amendments tabled by the christian democrats challenging a series of paragraphs that were originally in the evregenis report 15 years ago - and were approved by the christian democrats then - on the amendment of the staff regulations to allow ethnic minority members to join the european community staff .
on voting rights , on the selection of ethnic minority candidates , what i do not understand is whether they have no institutional memory or whether , a more sinister development , their political position has changed .
and when sarah ludford says the report refers to the year 2000 , then she must be clairvoyant because it has only just begun .
secondly , we are against all the points which fly in the face of the basic principle of solidarity .
thirdly , matters are addressed which have no place in this report , such as the voting rights of third country nationals in european elections or local elections .
as an austrian , i cannot accept a report which takes exception to my country in a most unqualified and most unjustified manner and which expressly welcomes and supports party-politically motivated action and unjustified boycotting measures by the fourteen .
madam president , i notice that you have not called mr hernandez mollar , who had asked me to speak on his behalf .
madam president , the debate on xenophobia and racism is always of great importance , politically and socially .
the ludford report contains points which are highly acceptable and which any democrat can and must ratify , but also contains other points which are less than rigorous from a political and even from a legal point of view .
the member states regulate the political rights of their citizens in accordance with their own democratic laws , as also happens in many of the countries of origin of the citizens who emigrate to the european union .
to ask for political participation in local , national or european elections , or even access to the civil service for people who are not nationals of the member states , without even coming to a reciprocal arrangement , is politically unrealistic and displays a lack of legal rigour .
however , that firm and unequivocal will must be exercised in a manner which is legally rigorous and , above all , based on common sense .
the tiniest hint of racism , intolerance or xenophobia must be eradicated in any member state in which it may occur .
however , the administrative status of the resident is not the same as the political status of the citizen .
in a political sense , the citizens of the union are classed as such by virtue of being citizens of one of the member states and this allows them to enjoy full political participation and , in particular , to express themselves in elections , to take collective representative responsibility of an electoral nature and to compete for permanent posts in the public administrations .
the european union must offer a generous welcome , and must be open to all people who wish to contribute , through their efforts and their work , to our general prosperity or who seek asylum or refuge from oppression or persecution .
however , full political citizenship must be acquired in accordance with the laws of each member state .
in his celebrated lecture at the sorbonne entitled " what is a nation ? " ernest renan warned us : " let us not abandon the principle that man is first and foremost a rational and moral being , before speaking any particular language , before being a member of any particular race , before belonging to any particular culture " .
the report raises many relevant points .
many indeed , such as the issue of racism and discrimination in the candidate countries , require a great deal of attention .
however , in my contribution , i would like to home in on the predicament of the roma people , otherwise known as gypsies .
many roma in the candidate member states live in extremely abject conditions .
we want the european union to get more directly involved in order to address the problems of the roma .
not only the european commission but also this parliament would do well to pay a lot more attention to this .
roma often live in areas where everyone is struggling .
local communities and local governments play a key role in solving the problems of the roma .
in my opinion , official recognition of the roma as a minority could help them to achieve more political independence .
in addition , there is a need for more specific action aimed at changing people ' s mentality .
i also advocate sound cooperation between the european union and the council of europe .
finally , i would like to underline that , more than anything , there is a great need for tangible results in the short term .
we must address the problems facing the roma in the candidate member states themselves , which is , after all , where they live .
if the european union wants to enlarge and become an authoritative reference system for the international community , we do indeed need a strong , coherent reaction from the european institutions , but there is also the need for each of us to transcend his own national political interests and focus on the good of the union as a whole by voting responsibly , in both political and , more importantly , humane terms on these issues .
all four reports on which we shall be voting are good reports .
i am tempted for the sake of quality , and because i wish to participate and because i agree , to read two paragraphs , two proposals relating to two candidate countries .
the second group which i should like to mention are the kurds .
but even if the kurds are not recognised as a minority and turkey is not prepared to grant them any collective rights , it must acknowledge that it is violating the kurds ' individual rights and their cultural freedom , their freedom of expression as well as their economic freedoms and rights .
i therefore think it extremely important that we help the kurds gain their rights in a reasonable and peaceful manner .
the third group which i should like to make special mention of is to be found mainly in estonia and latvia .
the monitoring centre for racism and xenophobia will open in vienna on 7 april .
i personally have asked the president of the european parliament on behalf of my group to ensure that this date is adhered to because , objectively-speaking , i consider it to be a very important date , irrespective of the current situation in austria .
i hope that this institution will not only be supported and will attract a great deal of publicity and attention on the day of its inauguration , but that parliament , the council and the commission will actively support it in years to come .
as the portuguese presidency , that is the portuguese prime minister , acted as a channel for the position that 14 countries of the european union expressed as regards their bilateral relations with austria , i would like to be very clear about the following point : we do not have any criticism to make about how austria has behaved at international level , and in particular about how austria has fulfilled its duties and obligations within the european union .
austria has undeniably been a country that has met its european union obligations .
this cannot be viewed as a matter of indifference to the other countries .
when we advocate the need for political life in austria to be in accordance with the values and principles promoted by the european union , and which austria has also undertaken to promote at european union level , we are not trying to interfere in member states ' internal affairs .
we believe that political precautions of this kind are possibly the best way of warding off future problems , and in particular the ghosts from the past that may return to haunt us in europe .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , with regard to external relations , we believe that the european union now has a solid set of values which the deepening process is bound to improve , particularly by means of these reports .
whilst we all oppose racism , and i think that is a statement everyone in this chamber will accept , i am not so sure that we can all reach agreement in practice on concrete measures to combat racism .
and although we may all say that we oppose xenophobia , i am not sure if we can all agree on active steps to integrate foreign citizens into the european union and accept measures to protect the interests of foreign citizens within the european union .
if there is a will within the union to extend this charter to foreign citizens living within the european union , we will be giving a signal that we are starting our action against xenophobia by putting our own house in order , with measures that we ourselves have decided to implement at internal political level .
furthermore , as regards antidiscrimination and the various forms of discrimination identified in the various reports , a great many differing measures obviously exist .
and we know that even when it comes to internal legislation within our member states , there are major differences in the way some of these questions are dealt with .
we need to keep this question on our agenda , and that is the rationale and the significance of this debate .
finally , i would like to conclude this speech by drawing attention to the set of measures already adopted in the council of the european union and the various community actions it has implemented .
it was not easy to reach a consensus : when we were negotiating the treaty of amsterdam , and i took part in those negotiations , it was not easy to reach a consensus on including the various measures now covered in articles 6 and 7 .
however , i would also like to draw attention to an initiative that will , symbolically , take place in vienna on 8 april - the launch of the european monitoring centre for racism and xenophobia .
i think the first annual report of this new european parliament is thorough and timely .
timely , because i hope that before the summer break this equally new commission will adopt a communication on human rights in external policies .
it will cover many of the areas in the report and all the european parliament 's recommendations provide extremely useful input for our work .
i cannot respond to all of the points in the report at this stage .
instead i will pursue them , including discussions with the european parliament , over the coming months so that we get the communication right and reflect the important arguments in this report .
beijing confirmed that women 's rights are universal human rights and that women have a central role to play in building democratic and just societies .
women are explicitly included as a target group for support .
issues such as violence against women have been rightly categorised as issues of human rights .
as such , they should be promoted vigorously as part and parcel of our foreign policy and development assistance .
our programmes daphne and stop are the mainstay of the commission 's response .
daphne has supported the sharing of information and good practice amongst ngos and member states through more than 100 transnational projects .
the commission is also working with others to halt the heinous trafficking of women which has been growing in the last few years .
as for children 's rights , the stop programme has co-financed 67 projects dealing with trafficking and sexual exploitation of children with a budget of eur 6.5 m for the first five years .
a new stop programme is planned to start from this year and this will be open to accession countries .
my aim is to adopt a more effective and coherent approach to policy and to spending and in particular to improve the management of our programmes in this area .
human rights projects are very different from projects to build bridges or reinforce primary education .
those who implement the projects may even see their own rights threatened , which is no doubt why ngos often feel a little aggrieved that they then have to provide the commission with a shoebox full of receipts when they return to the office .
reform to our procedures , many of them determined by member states in an era when ngos barely existed , is going to take time but we are working on it , not least as part of the overall reform package .
this brings me on to the budget and the parliament 's proposal for a joint declaration on yearly increases in human rights expenditure .
the possibility of creating a human rights agency as foreseen in vienna and cologne could help us here .
i now turn to the issues raised in the belder report which responds to the commission ' s communication on countering racism , xenophobia and antisemitism in the candidate countries .
of course , it criticises the lack of specific proposals in the commission ' s communication but i should note that the adoption of that communication came after the resignation of the college in march 1999 when the commission , and i put this gently , was not best placed to elaborate new proposals .
the fight against racism is an essential element of the union ' s human rights policies and of the pre-accession strategy .
this has two main elements : adoption and implementation of the acquis by candidate countries including the 1996 joint action concerning racism and xenophobia and the 1951 geneva convention and the 1967 new york protocol on asylum seekers and refugees , and effective use of our cooperation programmes .
the compatibility of legislation concerning minorities is raised during the screening process and during bilateral discussions and in association committees .
for example , we have looked at language laws in lithuania , estonia and slovakia , a subject that was raised during the debates , and legislation regarding the roma in the czech republic and slovakia .
the second element , our cooperation programmes , include the phare national programmes , phare democracy and the meda programme .
the goal of raising police awareness of racism and xenophobia was also incorporated in the framework of the european curriculum for the training of the police in central and eastern europe .
one central aim common to the malmstrom and the belder reports is the need to build on our relationship with ngos in candidate countries .
the new access programme which replaces the lien and partnership programmes aims to strengthen civil society .
we intend to be associated with the meeting to be organised by the european monitoring centre to which european parliament representatives are being invited - a meeting called in order to stimulate ideas for improving european union assistance to roma communities .
these reports cover extremely important issues .
they are issues of increasing concern to european union citizens as they are daily assailed by media footage of human rights abuses , whether they be in the caucasus , colombia , the balkans , sierra leone , china and so on .
i look forward to the european union taking up these abuses at the un commission on human rights in geneva , which i will attend on 27 march .
but evincing an interest also means , in my view , obtaining objective information about a country and levying criticism where criticism is due and then taking measures when transgressions have taken place and not preventatively or , where possible , on the grounds of political persuasion .
if you want to know who elected this party which forms part of the coalition , namely the freedom party , then the answer is that 50 % of the workers who used to vote for socialism have now voted for this party and that half the youth of austria voted for this party .
i call on the president of the council on behalf of my group to continue to be as vigilant and critical of racism and xenophobia as you have demonstrated here , in whatever capacity .
madam president , i am grateful for this opportunity to clarify once again the capacity in which i made those observations .
let there be no mistake : the statement by the president of the european council and portuguese prime minister was made on behalf of the 14 countries in the european union apart from austria .
the 14 countries ' three levels of response as regards austria are therefore bilateral in nature .
the fact that this was channelled through the president of the council was merely a question of coordinating the joint position of the various countries .
no formal aspect of the european union ' s operational framework has come into play during the portuguese presidency in relation to the austrian situation .
with regard to the political question which the honourable member has put to me about the attitude of the member states towards the effective operation of the austrian government , i would like to stress a point which has not always been sufficiently emphasised in relation to austria : the current situation does not represent ' business as usual ' , neither for austria in general nor for austria ' s political life .
in this context and as the personal representative of the commission president to the convention responsible for preparing this charter , i must defend the view that the charter should be extended to third country nationals legally resident on the territory of member states .
the commission is also pleased to note that its views are basically in agreement with those of the european parliament on the nature and content of this charter .
the conclusions of the tampere european council provide a very clear political framework for the eu ' s policy on respecting and promoting migrants ' rights in the broad sense of the term .
the heads of state and government underlined that the joint policies on immigration and asylum to be developed on the basis of the amsterdam treaty should be founded on principles which are clear to the people and which offer guarantees to those seeking protection in the european union or requesting access to its territory .
i wish to confirm the importance which the union and its member states attach to absolute respect for the right to ask for asylum on the basis of a full and comprehensive application of the geneva convention .
finally , although these measures are needed to guarantee social peace in our member states , we must recognise that the fight against illegal immigration must be strengthened and the protection of the rights of the victims of the criminal networks organising such immigration must be guaranteed .
however , at the same time , the commission intends , in the autumn , to submit to parliament a communication on immigration policy in the european union .
we must review the 1994 communication and update the approach to the questions of immigration policy in the union in light of the tampere conclusions .
we have also proposed making the very important brussels convention of 1968 on jurisdiction and the enforcement of judgements in civil and commercial matters into a regulation .
all these instruments are currently being examined by the council .
these measures will aim to go beyond the joint action of february 1997 .
they will consist of definitions , charges and penalties in the fight against the trade in human beings for the purposes of sexual exploitation and measures against the sexual exploitation of children .
article 7 of the treaty on european union introduces new powers to react in case of serious and persistent breaches of fundamental rights by a member state .
my message today , in the follow-up to the ludford report , is that we still hope that parliament will give priority to giving its opinion on this package so that we can adopt the two directives and the action plan by the end of this year .
as you know , the package of proposals that the commission has put forward consists of two directives and an action programme .
the two draft directives provide a legislative framework for legally enforceable rights including provisions on a number of key issues such as protection against harassment , scope for positive action , appropriate remedies and enforcement measures .
although it is important , the article 13 package is only part of an on-going process to develop new ways of tackling racial discrimination .
we intend to keep pushing the process forward , through the structural funds , the research framework programme , the european employment strategy , the new equal initiative and the new social action programme which we hope to adopt in the summer .
we intend to use all these instruments to fight discrimination and , as you know , work has also started on the european charter of fundamental rights .
i will conclude as i have started : the charter will represent the high priority that the union as a whole accords to the fight against racism and discrimination and to protection of human rights .
i sincerely hope that , during our debate on this issue next year , we will be congratulating ourselves on achieving , with the charter , a new tool to fight against racism and xenophobia in the union .
two heads of government , mr president-in-office , have already been reprimanded by their parliaments for the steps which they initiated against austria .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at noon .
mr president-in-office of the council , firstly i would like to thank the presidency-in-office of the council for their high level presence in this house and for their positive attitude .
last year , this parliament was consulted twice about the establishment of a system for comparing fingerprints .
in principle , the system is intended to correctly implement the dublin convention .
on 13 april 1999 , this parliament rejected the council ' s proposal to extend the eurodac system to illegal immigrants by means of a protocol .
this parliament was then consulted again in accordance with the provisions of amsterdam .
we were once again told that this system has to be developed in order to correctly implement the dublin convention .
this seems all very well to me , with the limits introduced by parliament in its last report , with the amendments which ranged from our reservations about the inclusion of children under 14 in the system to the request that this eurodac system be only applied to the dublin convention .
given that we have been informed that none of our suggestions are going to be accepted , i would like to ask the council whether it is prepared to hold a genuine dialogue with parliament .
we are beginning to build and implement the instruments for the ' communitisation ' of the area of freedom , security and justice and , as we will never tire of saying in this house , this cannot be done without the national parliaments and without the european parliament , because these issues are far too important to the citizens not to be endorsed through a strong social consensus .
the other question i would like to ask the council is whether it agrees that this system should be administrated by the commission , in which case the commission should be provided with adequate staff and resources .
i await your responses to this question and i would like to thank you once again for coming to answer this oral question before the debate on the new eurodac regulations , which i hope will also reach this house .
we highlighted all these problems in a resolution by parliament .
mr president , esteemed commissioners , mr president-in-office of the council , the debate on eurodac and the implementation of this system is something of a never ending story .
in other words , it is , as a whole , a system which must be seen as very positive and absolutely necessary in the context of asylum and immigration policy and the responsibility of the member states .
as regards the role of the european commission , article 3 of the proposal for a regulation clearly defines that a central unit shall be set up within the commission .
in addition , i would like to remind you that all the justice and home affairs council ' s proposals on this matter have been presented to this house , which has , in fact , given its opinion on this matter on three occasions : 15 january 1998 , 18 march 1999 and 11 november 1999 .
at present , as you know , and for reasons that are not entirely relevant to this issue , but have more to do with other circumstances of a political nature , it has not been possible to reach a consensus within the council on the new proposal to be submitted to this house .
with regard to the other questions raised here , the first was the minimum age for taking fingerprints , which has been set at 14 years .
i recognise that there are some concerns about this , but i would like to say that this is in line with the practices followed in member states , which in some cases even allow fingerprints to be taken from children under 14 .
the purpose of the dublin convention and eurodac is to allocate to a single member state responsibility for examining an asylum application , and the justification for the proposed regulation is that there is a need to extend fingerprinting to certain categories of illegal immigrants on the grounds that a substantial number of them will have claimed asylum previously or intend to do so .
the problem is that some have not and will not , so this means that the proposed regulation goes beyond the strict terms of dublin by guessing at or anticipating the existence of an asylum application .
member states are required to fingerprint every third-country national over 14 who is apprehended in connection with the irregular crossing of their border - that is not very precise .
it is perfectly clear that there is abuse , for example in connection with asylum claims .
the number of people applying for asylum on grounds which have nothing to do with political persecution far outweighs the number of applicants recognised as victims of political persecution .
given that we are now discussing a charter of fundamental rights and yesterday , for instance , a report on human rights , could we really live within a fortress europe outside , or even inside , which rights might be being violated ?
we are using and establishing instruments before we have developed a proper harmonised policy on the right to freedom of movement , the right to live as a family and the right of asylum .
this raises a vital question about the democratic credit granted to the members of the european parliament .
with eurodac , the commission and the council are , in my view , going too far in their desire to monitor asylum seekers and other citizens of third countries who cross the border into fortress europe .
keeping fingerprints for up to ten years , even if the person concerned has not committed any offence and even if they have perhaps , into the bargain , obtained legal residence in the area of the union , is a violation of the demand under the european convention on human rights for respect for private life .
mr president , on behalf of the union for a europe of nations group , i should like to express my confidence in the council ' s handling of this matter and , in common with others , i want to urge the council now to make a decision about establishing eurodac .
i cannot imagine that either the council or the commission might wish to construct this system in such a way that it could include restrictions of any kind upon the freedom of law-abiding citizens .
mr president , the back-peddling in relation to the adoption of the eurodac system has given rise to numerous , logical questions concerning both the expediency and the efficiency of the system for the comparison of the fingerprints of applicants for asylum which complements the dublin convention .
in other words , extending the system to asylum seekers automatically identifies refugees and immigrants as a whole with crime and illegality , which i think is quite unfair and goes beyond every concept of international law and respect for human rights as demanded in the geneva convention , the 50th anniversary of which we celebrated in this morning ' s extended debate here in the european parliament .
in all events , the european parliament is calling for the right to exercise parliamentary scrutiny , in which case the council and the commission will have the final word on the matter .
however , i think that the best thing the european commission and the council can do is to institute a common asylum and immigration policy based on european humanitarian and democratic values and respect for human rights .
mr president , the commission would like to welcome , first of all , the very clear statement issued by the representative of the council to the effect that the eurodac system is only a system conceived to implement the dublin convention .
i would also like to confirm , as the representative of the council has already said , that there is a problem concerning the territorial application of the eurodac regulation .
nevertheless , this is a very sensitive issue , as the debate has already shown , and one of the few cases where the three institutions do not have the same position , as i very clearly stated before parliament .
we considered that 14 years old is an adequate solution .
it is inconceivable for me that my country is one which criminalises all children of 10 years of age just because they are fingerprinted for their first identity card .
we will come to parliament and the council with proposals in the next few months .
we want to launch a debate not only on the technical questions of eurodac but also on the essential solutions to the current dublin convention .
the proposal of the commission is that the executive powers , the implementing powers of the system , should be delegated to the commission , associated with a committee composed of representatives from all member states .
in our opinion this will be a more coherent and transparent way of managing the system and reinforcing the capability of parliament to scrutinise the way the commission manages and develops the eurodac system .
maybe through this balanced solution it will be possible to address in a more relaxed and trusting way some of the reservations and political doubts that have been raised by several members of parliament during this debate .
we support the commission in its implied criticism of the member states which have failed to do their homework but deeply regret that we are again in a situation in which we are unable to implement amendments and improvements to a control system which has been accepted and entered into force because the member states have failed to carry out their duties .
the commission has , however , left itself with an escape clause by asking for a further transitional period of three years under the provisions of the agreement with the council in the council decision on comitology of 28 june 1999 and we in parliament consider that somewhat unusual .
we tabled a proposed amendment seeking to reduce this period to two years and it became clear during discussions with the commission that it too was willing to go along with this proposed amendment .
if the commission and the council are able to adopt our amendments , we can shorten the procedure which , given that we have been in a legal grey area since 1 july 1999 , is a reasonable step .
in the case of the pig sector the export trade is also suffering because during the past two years the pig industry has experienced acute difficulties .
if britain is once again to reactivate a dynamic intra-community trade in bovine animals and swine , then immediate help is required to alleviate the catastrophic situation affecting rural britain and affecting our pig and beef sectors in particular .
mr president , i would like to join previous speakers in congratulating the rapporteur .
mr president , this proposal introduces an extension of a current exemption to directive 64 / 432 applicable to the spanish government .
this exemption has important implications for my country .
in order to avoid ending up in the european court of justice , my government has had to recruit large numbers of eu vets , 300 of whom come from spain .
with a cattle population in ireland of between 7 and 8 million in recent years , some 10.5 million tb tests have been undertaken annually in some 138 000 herds .
the point i would like to ask the commissioner to consider particularly is the fact that the only test provided for in the eu and under irish legislation is the single intradermal comparative test as specified in directive 64 / 432 of the ec .
the gamma-interferon test is the most promising of these , and is used under practical field conditions as an adjunct to the tuberculin test in herds .
mr president , may i first of all thank you for the interest you have devoted to the commission proposal modifying directive 64 / 432 on health problems affecting intra-community trade in bovine animals and swine .
member states encountered serious trade problems when implementing the updated animal health rules for intra-community trade laid down in directive 64 / 432 that came into force on 1 july last year .
in order to facilitate the change-over to the new rules the commission , based on articles 37 and 152 of the treaty , proposed amendments to the directive that include transitional measures to solve the most acute trade problems , minor corrections and clarifications in the annexes and a general mandate to the commission to lay down transitional measures in accordance with the new comitology procedure included in the proposal .
the first amendment requires the member states to ensure full implementation of the directive and the member states and the commission to execute controls on the implementation .
the second amendment seeks to restrict the period of application of transitional measures to two years .
it modifies the comitology procedure by proposing for implementing measures relating to article 37 to introduce a management procedure with the right of scrutiny .
i regret that i cannot accept your new amendment which replaces article 17 and 17a by a single new article comprising the entire comitology procedure .
it introduces a regulatory committee with the right of scrutiny for parliament and i quote from the letter which he sent me : " in the case of a codecision procedure based on article 251 , article 8 thereof " - that is article 8 of council decision 99 / 468 on comitology .
the framework for the comitology procedure is clearly established in the abovementioned council decision .
the right of scrutiny for the parliament is foreseen for areas relating to codecision , that is article 8 .
the amended directive 64 / 432 is based on articles 37 and 152 of the treaty .
i refer you to article 3 of the directive in particular which amends article 16 of the original where it says : " where necessary to facilitate the change-over to the new arrangements provided for in this directive the commission , acting in accordance with the procedures laid down in article 17a , may adopt transitional measures applicable for a period of not more than three years " .
therefore , the power that is given to the commission to further extend the period of time which is contained in article 3 clearly identifies article 17a as being the appropriate article to deal with this which incorporates article 8 of the council decision of last june , thereby giving parliament full scrutiny powers in relation to any such proposal .
where reference is made in the current version of 64 / 432 to article 17 , this relates to implementing measures concerning animal health , that is based on article 37 which are of no or , in very few cases , of very remote , public health concern .
therefore these measures should not be subject to the right of scrutiny of parliament .
the implementing powers of the commission are laid down in article 202 , third indent of the ec treaty in conjunction with the council decision 99 / 468 that i earlier referred to which is the appropriate council decision laying down the appropriate procedure for comitology .
this system aims clearly at defining exactly the respective role of the executive and legislative power in the basic legislative instrument .
consequently , in the basic legislative act it has to be made clear from the outset which implementing measures are based on codecision procedures , that is , article 152 and which provisions do not have as their direct objective the protection of public health and would therefore not be subject to parliament 's right of scrutiny .
the wording proposed in the new amendment for the regulatory procedure with the right of scrutiny , and i quote : " in the case of the codecision procedure based on article 251 , article 8 thereof " leads to legal uncertainty and is not in line with the agreed implementation of council 's comitology decision .
i am firmly committed to the procedure of codecision and i am firmly committed to the procedures laid down in comitology .
however , it is in the interest of all the institutions that the procedures are clearly defined and transparent for everybody .
there is a significant risk that if the matter is proceeded with in this way and if the council votes in accordance with the proposal put forward by the commission , the matter will go to second reading , thereby creating further delays .
it has come to my attention as late as today , in consultation with members of the committee on agriculture and rural development , that there is a concern which i was unaware of : of the interaction between articles 37 and 152 .
i have made it clear that i am prepared to respond quickly to any invitation that the committee might wish to extend to me to discuss this important constitutional issue of the interaction between article 37 and article 152 .
secondly , on the issue relating to comitology , i can only repeat what i said which is that in any basic legal text which authorises the commission to amend that text by comitology , that text must itself identify what procedure is being adopted .
from that text it will be clear what comitology procedure is the appropriate one to follow : whether it is article 17 in the version suggested by the commission which applies to all of the circumstances in this particular directive , or article 17 ( a ) which incorporates the scrutiny procedure of the comitology , and which is appropriate to the circumstances set out in article 3 - that is , where there is a further extension of time beyond 31 december 2000 and where the commission can extend it for a further period as we have discussed .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
question time ( council ) the next item is question time ( b5-0201 / 2000 ) .
as regards the specific question of trafficking in women , which is covered in the chapter on violence against women , the objectives are very clear .
various measures are to be taken by the governments of the countries of origin , transit and destination of the regional and international organisations , and mrs aviles perea is quite right in drawing attention to the violation of women ' s safety and dignity in europe by the threat posed by trafficking .
firstly , starting in november 1993 , the justice and home affairs council agreed a series of recommendations on trade in human beings for prostitution , with a view to combating trafficking in human beings .
two years after that , this house took on this subject : apart from adopting a number of resolutions , it also produced a report and a resolution which specifically addressed trafficking in human beings .
for its part , the commission published an initial communication on trafficking in women and , in 1996 , that is to say the year immediately after the beijing platform was adopted , it launched the stop programme , with an annual budget of eur 6.5 million .
thirdly , back in 1996 , the commission and the international organisation for migration organised an interdisciplinary conference in vienna , which brought together representatives from member states , the institutions , the european union , the academic world , and various non-governmental organisations .
lastly , also in 1996 , the council approved a common action to combat trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children .
in 1997 , the ministerial conference in the hague resulted in the hague ministerial declaration on a european code of conduct to prevent and combat trafficking in women for the purpose of sexual exploitation .
lastly , in 1998 , the commission adopted a further communication on new measures to combat trafficking in women .
this issue has , of course , been a regular agenda item in contacts with the countries of central and eastern europe which are both transit countries and even the countries of origin for the great majority of this traffic .
in any case , this problem needs to be taken very seriously , not just because of the number of people involved , but also because trafficking in women is a form of organised crime that is evidently on the increase throughout the world , as it generates high profits in return for relatively low risks as far as the traffickers are concerned .
the member states of the european union are also playing a very active role in the meeting of the united nations commission on the status of women which is preparing the united nations general assembly special session on women .
to conclude , i would like to reiterate that the council continues to attach great importance to the issue of trafficking in women and children , and i hope that i have been able to allay some of your fears , mrs aviles perea , at least in relation to the council ' s efforts in this field .
i believe that an effort has been made over recent years , but i must insist that it requires special attention now and we must prevent such problems in the future , since it is possible that this problem will become even more acute .
we believe that the work that has been done , and the increasing awareness on the part of the candidate countries of the need to work with the european union during the pre-accession period to strengthen control mechanisms , combined with collaboration in this field , may yield concrete results .
the commission is paying particular attention to this subject , and i believe that the fact that during the portuguese presidency various negotiating chapters linked with this - particularly in the field of justice and home affairs and freedom of movement - are to be opened with the luxembourg phase candidate countries may help to create a common culture , a common culture that the candidate countries will later on have to share in terms of respecting the acquis communautaire .
question no 2 by ( h-0148 / 00 ) : subject : articles 6 and 7 of the treaty on european union on 2 february the commission told the ep that it intends to monitor austria , following the entry of the fpo into government , pursuant to articles 6 and 7 of the eu treaty .
in its resolution of 3 february 2000 the ep ' calls on the council and commission to be prepared , in the event of any violation of the principles of fundamental rights laid out in article 6 ( 1 ) of the treaty on european union , to take action under article 7 of the treaty .. ' .
mr president , this question has already been broached here more than once .
we have to recognise that the austrian situation in particular , and the issues raised in this question concerning italy and belgium , are quite different from what is envisaged in articles 6 and 7 of the treaty of amsterdam .
article 6 of the treaty of amsterdam - and it is very important to make this point , as the treaties are breaking fresh ground here - states that the union is founded on the principles of liberty , democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms , and the rule of law .
although we all know that the european union is not a signatory to the european convention on human rights , the same article compensates for this by stating that the european union respects fundamental rights as guaranteed by the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms .
as for article 7 , which is in fact a portuguese proposal that i was able to present to the reflection group which prepared the previous intergovernmental conference , this article establishes a specific mechanism , and this is the point to which the honourable member ' s question refers , for taking action against any member state which seriously and persistently breaches the principles mentioned in the previous article , article 6 .
i have to say that the facts that mr dupuis refers to in his question do not represent a violation of any of the principles mentioned in article 6 of the treaty .
the existence of a violation of a principle mentioned in article 6 must - and this is also an important point and the reason why no mechanism has been brought into play - be determined by the council acting on a proposal by one third of the member states or by the commission and after obtaining the assent of the european parliament .
with regard to the council statement made on 2 february , i would like to repeat , as i was the one who presented this declaration in this house , that it was made by the council presidency , but on behalf of 14 member states , and of course the consequences of that statement and of its content as regards relations with austria are only binding on each member state on a bilateral basis .
they do not bind the council and they do not affect the free and normal functioning of the community institutions , in which austria is still participating in full .
we still have an almost purely national framework for justice , although certain situations are in practice clearly of a transnational nature .
mr president-in-office of the council , i should like to thank you expressly for stating during question time that austria has not been found guilty of violating articles 6 and 7 and that , in the case of austria , it is a preventive sentence .
mr casaca , i can assure you that despite everything i am not pessimistic about the way in which the european union has been progressing towards establishing an ethical dimension , and in particular towards equipping itself with legal mechanisms to enable it to cope with new situations such as the ones you have mentioned .
when it comes to the development of the treaty of amsterdam , i think it is important for us to bear in mind that transfers of power have taken place , and that further transfers of power remain to be made over the next five years from what was the old third pillar to the first pillar of the union , particularly as regards visas , judicial cooperation in civil matters and customs cooperation .
we still have judicial cooperation in criminal matters under the third pillar , but at the moment we are working towards establishing a european area of freedom , security and justice , and we hope that the commission can respond to this by presenting a scoreboard giving us a catalogue of pertinent measures .
on the other hand , i would like to stress that the european charter of fundamental rights that is being discussed will very probably help to strengthen these new aspects and will certainly help to give the european union a more solid body of legally arguable principles , which some of us , and the council in particular , would like to see .
as for your question about austria , i would like to repeat what i said about austria ' s compliance with articles 6 and 7 up to now .
i think mrs kauppi must have misheard or there must have been a mistake in the interpreting .
any country can disassociate itself from the declaration made by the 14 countries .
the same freedom that led them to stand together could lead them to part company tomorrow if they had a different view of developments in austria .
i would like to make it clear that austria has been totally involved and will continue to be one hundred per cent involved in all the formal workings of the european union ' s institutions .
question no 3 by ( h-0151 / 00 ) : subject : " energy for democracy " - fry the current winter is one of the severest in recent decades , with several european countries having been hard hit .
this measure was intended to send a message of support to democratic forces and to encourage those within the republic of yugoslavia who , despite the adverse conditions they face , are committed to an approach in keeping with the defence of democratic rights and to policies in the interests of the people of yugoslavia .
this programme started with two local authorities where the opposition held power .
the european union subsequently decided , acting on proposals from various member states , to extend this system to five other municipalities .
we hope that this signal from the european union will be heard by democratic forces in serbia .
the point is whether or not a country has the right to decide its fate and choose its government .
but we want this to mean access to the media , total freedom of expression for the opposition , unrestricted individual rights , freedoms and guarantees , the rule of law and total transparency in the institutions .
mrs diez gonzalez , you have asked an important question , but i have to confess that the council does not have the information you have requested about the number of european union citizens condemned to death in other countries .
this cooperation between the missions of member states will also cover information sharing on citizens who may be threatened with the death penalty .
mr president-in-office of the council , i am grateful for your words but not for their content .
this cannot be due to lack of time because i asked this question to the council three months ago and it did not reply in writing .
i know that we require the commitment of the member states , but do you not think that what we basically need is a political will which , until now , i have not seen from any quarter ?
the european union is indeed , as you have said , a world power , and it is establishing various instruments and mechanisms to strengthen its position and to properly protect the rights of its citizens in other countries .
a systematic approach for consular cooperation and for coordinated consular action has only been developed in the last few years .
mr president , article 101 of the euratom treaty provides the legal basis for international nuclear agreements , as is the case with the european atomic energy community ' s accession agreement to the korean peninsula energy development organisation or kedo .
this article provides that agreements or contracts with third countries shall be negotiated by the commission in accordance with the directives of the council , and are to be concluded by the commission with the approval of the council , which shall act by a qualified majority .
to sum up , your questions raise some sensitive problems which , as we know , have been discussed in this house in recent years in the context of increasing its powers , and parliament has been using its budgetary authority as a legitimate source of pressure .
as regards the specific instance of kedo , let me remind you that in 1998 parliament blocked the funds for that year , and it was only possible to overcome this problem by means of a compromise with the commission , in which the commission undertook to inform parliament , at the beginning of each year , about euratom agreements being negotiated , so that parliament could consider them .
question no 6 by ( h-0160 / 00 ) : subject : compensation for victims of fascist war many rulings by greek courts have confirmed that greek citizens are entitled to compensation as victims of the nazi regime , while the war reparations which germany owes greece remain in abeyance and have not yet been paid .
i would like to explain that at national level this type of support is a matter for member states , within certain legal limits laid down in the treaty .
firstly , i would like to say that there is an enormous difference between , for example , producing cars or lorries and producing a film .
i would , however , like to ask the council 's representative whether he does not consider it important , with the help of this practice , to be able to give up to 50 percent in aid to the production of european film in those languages with few speakers .
as you know , in the past all the member states of the union were authorised to provide special support for their film industries , particularly bearing in mind the specific need for cultural diversity within the european union and because it was necessary to ensure that account was taken of this specific need , thus going beyond a purely economic view of the film industry .
at present , there is still a 50 % limit on state aid in relation to the overall cost of any given project , but this percentage could even be raised to 60 % in special cases envisaged in the programme .
question no 8 by ( h-0166 / 00 ) : subject : information for the public will the council draw up a list of parties which the electorate can safely vote for without running the risk of their country being ostracised ?
mr president , it is clear that the european union does not have the power to intervene in the constitutional arrangements of the member states , no more than it is for the union to draw up a so-called positive list of parties for whom electors may vote .
this does not mean that the idea behind this question does not make some sense politically speaking : in some countries , including my own , a nazi or fascist party does not have the right to register with the constitutional court .
this means that it cannot be accepted as a legitimate party in the democratic process .
what we have to recognise is that when we are considering a broader community , no situation affecting democratic rights in one country can be a matter of indifference to the other countries and their citizens .
but whether lists of parties are desirable or otherwise , i hope that this never becomes a matter for the european union .
because austria has a county mayor in klagenfurt who has expressed himself in a way for which you and i feel equal revulsion , you have punished a country with sanctions and you are punishing a people with sanctions , including those individuals who may have voted against the party in question , and this without specifying what their crime entails .
these 14 member states decided of their own free will to make plain to the austrian authorities their displeasure at the kind of government they had established , and above all at the fact that they had included in the government a party which advocates , or has advocated in the past - it is difficult to distinguish between the past and the present in the freedom party ' s statements - a certain ideology and a certain way of interpreting european values .
of course , all parties have every right to oppose economic and monetary union , the schengen agreement , or anything else ; they can even oppose the european union itself .
as you know , there are parties which are opposed to the european union , but that does not mean that they should be seen as undemocratic .
the fact is , and you know this as well as i do , mr bonde , that there are parties which promote ideologies which jeopardise the system itself and which affect the set of values which are the very essence of the european union , which are ultimately part of the justification for creating the european union in the first place .
this uneasiness is only being reflected in bilateral relations .
it is also possible to obtain information on the legislative transparency of the council by e-mail .
the public ' s right of access to council documents is covered by article 255 of the treaty , which stipulates that the council shall determine general principles and limits for exercising this right within two years of the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam .
for this reason , as i have already said , this article stipulates that the rules of procedure of the european parliament , the council and the commission should contain specific provisions regarding access to their documents .
furthermore , a council decision on improving the provision of information relating to the council 's legislative activities and the public register of council documents was approved .
in accordance with this decision , and let me quote once again , " the general secretariat of the council shall make accessible to the public a list of the items on the provisional agendas of meetings of the council and its preparatory bodies referring to cases where the council acts in its legislative capacity " .
the decision stipulates that the public register of council documents shall also include references to the document number and the subject matter of classified documents , with the exception of cases where disclosure of this information could undermine protection of the public interest , protection of the individual and of privacy , protection of commercial and industrial secrecy , protection of the community 's financial interests , and / or protection of confidentiality as requested by the natural or legal person who supplied any of the information contained in the document or as required by the legislation of the member state which supplied any of that information .
from the outset , the portuguese presidency has declared its commitment to initiate discussions on public access to documents and its intention to entrust this dossier to the " friends of the presidency " group as soon as the commission presented the proposal for a regulation on public access to european parliament , council and commission documents .
this proposal was presented to the commission , in the college of commissioners , on 26 january , and , as i have said , it attempts to fulfil the objectives of increasing transparency , and in particular proposes significant amendments to the 1999 code of conduct .
the presidency immediately initiated discussion of the proposal , which was presented at the coreper meeting on 2 february and which was examined at two subsequent meetings .
do you accept that for legislation in a democratic environment , in which we are in the european union , the public , whom the laws affect , should be able to see and hear what their elected representatives are doing to pass the laws ?
mr newton dunn , this is a complex issue and it relates , of course , to the type of legislative practice involved and in particular to the degree of similarity between the legislative practices adopted in the european union and in its member states .
in the member states , there are legislative powers associated with parliaments in which debates are held openly and in public , and there are legislative powers which , either because they are delegated by parliament or as a matter of law , are a matter for the government .
discussion of legislative proposals within the government is not in the public domain , but the result of these legislative proposals is in the public domain , whether they come before parliament or not .
we would then - in quantitative terms - be more successful in giving answers to this house .
i have been here since 9 o ' clock in the morning and i do not think that the council can be accused of not doing a serious job in answering honourable members ' questions .
with regard to your question about this disagreement between parliament and the commission , it is obvious that the council would be the last institution to get involved in this disagreement and will leave those two institutions to sort out this potential argument between them .
governments ' legislative role is normally exercised in restricted , closed meetings in every country in the world .
mr seixas da costa had informed us that he had to leave at 7.00 p.m .
questions nos 10 to 38 will be replied to in writing .
mr president , my point of order relates to rules 148 and 135 regarding the distribution of the minutes and particularly regarding roll-call votes .
all members have , this morning , received a booklet containing 113 pages of roll-call votes .
but in the interests of economy and the environment , i would suggest that parliament look again , or ask parliament 's services to look again , at the interpretation of the word ' distribution ' .
now that these negotiations have been concluded and the council has expressed its view on their content , it falls to parliament , in response to the council ' s formal consultation , to give its opinion on the results of the negotiations .
turning to the substance of my report , the first thing i want to highlight is that , although we are dealing with an implementation agreement exclusively concerned with trade , there is a political dimension to bear in mind in expressing our opinion .
this is the case because the text my report covers is set in the context of the economic partnership , political coordination and cooperation agreement , and that agreement is a reflection of the will to promote a genuinely democratic political system , respect for human , social and environmental rights and a fairer social balance , thanks to the greater economic development the liberalisation of trade will generate .
in addition , by institutionalising cooperation between the european union and mexico , especially on human rights issues , social affairs and the fight against poverty , an instrument is being created which could be extremely useful for reducing the social inequalities which persist in mexico and for improving the living conditions of the less advantaged strata of the population .
of course , during the transition period , and until all products have been fully liberalised , the agreement will be more beneficial to mexico than the european union , but this asymmetry also takes account of the levels of development and competitiveness of the european economy as compared with mexico ' s .
for all these reasons , ladies and gentlemen , and by a very large majority , the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy recommends a vote in favour of the council decision on the result of negotiations whose benefits we must monitor to make sure they genuinely contribute to promoting a more democratic political system and respect for human rights and social justice .
mr president , i should like to talk about a particular issue in order to highlight the risk of its posing a serious problem to the european economy and society .
in other words , with a population of 90 million mexicans , we have agreed to export one pair of shoes per 100 inhabitants in mexico .
the commission ought to realise that if the derogation with mexico is taken as a precedent , 50 % of europe ' s shoe industry will be in danger of being wiped out .
we might have been able to dispense with the lannoye report on chocolate yesterday had mexico not given us cocoa in the past .
i should like to go briefly into , or at least touch on , two problems .
a few weeks ago i visited mexico for a number of reasons , one of which was to find out what mexicans think of the new framework for relations between their country and the european union , announced with great fanfare in most of the media .
i therefore support the rapporteur ' s conclusions although i am concerned about the impact of tariff liberalisation for cut flowers as this could have negative repercussions on certain european regions specialising in this type of agriculture , such as the outermost regions .
we believe , along with the german and belgian governments , that we should enforce observance of article 1 of the treaty , which contains the fundamental principle , and adopt instruments and set in place practical controls to ensure its implementation .
there are many other aspects of this agreement which , we feel , require correction : i will give just one example - it reveals a european union economic policy which does not take into consideration the social and economic situation in mexico or its human development .
the ferrer report , following what is clearly now the fashion in this parliament , sets itself the objective of helping to create a new framework that will enable european enterprises to compete on equal terms with the united states and canada .
that is a totally unrealistic objective for the near future and it is quite obvious for whose benefit the measures advocated in the text are designed .
mr president , the conclusion of trade negotiations between the european union and mexico , considered from a positive perspective , could mean a new and durable framework for the institutionalisation of political dialogue and cooperation , provided that this trade pact works to the benefit of both sides .
as a result of that 500 year-old meeting of civilisations , mexico is a country culturally and politically bound to europe .
but mexico has also made great progress on human rights .
mr president , the group of the greens / european free alliance does not have a common position on this issue .
the latter part of the group , representing , as you know , groups which regard themselves as defenders of nations and regions internal to the european member states , take a different view and , of course , members of the group are free to adopt different positions .
obviously we share a basic concern about everything relating to human rights and sustainable development , especially in a context which leaves no room for social exclusion .
however , many of us feel we cannot realistically and sincerely oppose an agreement like the one before us today , primarily because we believe it will create objective conditions for further development and greater democracy and because , in addition , this agreement includes a suspension clause for non-respect of human rights .
our decision has nothing to do with her work , it relates to the situation in mexico .
mr zedillo promised to let me have full details to prove to me that our concern was groundless .
meanwhile , information is reaching us from many sources indicating that serious human rights violations are continuing in many places , increasing our concern .
we quite understand that the economic content of the agreement is intended to bring about improvements , but we also recognise that we have not been able to achieve our aim of shifting the tremendous weight of north american influence that bears down on mexico and other latin american countries like a jackboot .
first , from the strategic and political angles , it is important for the european union to build up its relationship with a country that is so important in that part of the world and which , above all , is making progress in terms of respect for the values of human rights .
nor should we forget the opportunities represented by this market of 100 million people .
but obviously this political symbolism can in no way allay our concern about environmental issues , social issues and above all human rights issues , and many speakers have already referred to them here today .
the european parliament ' s delegation for relations with the countries of central america and mexico will be visiting that country .
i support the agreement in its entirety , for it certainly represents a step forward .
these results of the trade negotiations are based on the eu-mexico agreement to which this parliament gave the green light on 6 may last year .
it covers all our relations with mexico , notably cooperation and political dialogue .
it is very important because it will pave the way for organising a meeting of the ec-mexico joint council on the margins of the lisbon council next week .
thank you very much , mr liikanen .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 12 noon .
this is , of course , timed to coincide with the summit in lisbon next week , and parliament has had to work extremely speedily , for which i thank so many colleagues who have helped with this and , of course , the secretariat .
one of these is in rutland , the smallest county in england , where a virtual rutnet was set up , bringing together people in rural , isolated communities for purposes of leisure , transport , employment and social life generally .
i think for all of us the future for our children and grandchildren is a future of great opportunity , though also of great uncertainty .
we have been working against the clock and we have been dealing with an excellent and supportive fellow member , who has been very open to accepting all the points our committee wanted to raise in this important debate .
the committee on employment and social affairs has welcomed the commission ' s very important initiative , e-europe , for the special european council to be held in lisbon on 23 and 24 march , with support and optimism .
so we want supplementary analyses taken into account , we want firmer commitments , we want a specific point about strengthening employment and social cohesion in the information society - because there is nothing about that in the commission ' s communication - and we want a strategy with guidelines , recommendations and indicators .
and we want the european social model to be defended .
i therefore expressly welcome the statement in the e-europe initiative that its prime objective is to accelerate the positive transformation to the information society in the european union and gear the transformation towards social and regional integration .
the european commission sets out ten measures in its communication on the e-europe initiative , which should level the playing field in the run up to the information society in europe .
however , caution is required in the legislative area in that we must not over-regulate ; in other words , the first question with future legislative proposals should always be , do we actually need this ?
i have already referred to the fact that the changes in information technology and the new media affect all areas of life .
it is a disgrace that large countries in the past have not foreseen the need to train , and countries like germany and the united kingdom should not be having to bring in workers from elsewhere .
business-to-business communications are doing well but we must enhance communications between business and consumers in the european union , where we lag behind the united states .
mr president , commissioner , the present initiative is important for the purpose of making decision makers in general more aware of developments , but also because levels of development differ very greatly from one european country to another .
people may hold different views as to the value of this type of investigation , but i think it is important to emphasise that the us model is not the only one which leads to success in the it society , something which far too many people have said in this house .
scandinavia is acquitting itself well with its social infrastructure and also , perhaps , with its pensions systems .
we should also remember that the eu countries are very different from one another and that developments are very rapid .
i am glad that this point is made in the report .
the commission ' s proposal aims to create equality through market liberalisation .
mr president , in the original paper in english , the commission uses the words ' information society ' and not ' knowledge society ' .
the information society is the chaos society .
indeed no one will deny that means of communication , and in particular the internet , are most important to the future development of our societies , or that the eu member states are currently trailing behind the united states in this respect , or that we need to legislate to control the potentially anarchic development of these means in order to limit the excesses to which they can give rise and ensure that they are as successful as possible for our people .
yet i fear that the catalogue of good intentions before us today may , in fact , make it more difficult to achieve the objective we are seeking .
rather than moving ahead one step at a time and setting the member states a concrete and quantifiable short or medium-term objective , parliament is sending out a confused and confusing signal , largely , it is true , because of the rather bizarre committee work .
it is rather surprising , mrs ferrer , to read in paragraph 55 of your report that this parliament expressly supports ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , the world of it is awash with opportunities , if we believed the commission ' s communication and parliament ' s resolution .
mr president , commissioner , it is a very positive sign that lisbon will see focused discussion on the development of the information society in europe .
the european response to new challenges and exploiting opportunities has , however , been a long time coming .
we members of the european parliament cannot stand by either , while europe continually lags behind its global competitors in the world of the internet .
speedy developments in the information society will drastically change our environment and our working and living conditions .
the legislator does not always even have to interfere in developments : in certain matters industry and the players themselves may quickly resolve problems through cooperation .
consequently , there will have to be more focus on the training of teaching staff in european educational and training programmes .
mr president , with regard to the commission ' s communication on the information society , i feel that it is particularly important to underscore the emphasis placed on the need to provide all european citizens with access to new technologies .
mr president , with the e-europe initiative , the commission is reminding us that europe is lagging behind in the development of the information society .
yes , it is backward in terms of the development of e-commerce made possible by the internet .
this is important in our own part of the world but is also , of course , especially important in poor countries .
mr president , commissioner , metaphorically-speaking , what we have in the new i + c technologies is new fuel for our economic locomotive to re-heat our eco-system .
first : article 6 of the treaty of amsterdam clearly calls for the principle of sustainability to be integrated into all policies .
to be honest , commissioner , on reading the communication , i find too little account has been taken of sustainability , the question of ecological products , incentives for an ecological lifestyle or the question of the impact which i + c technologies have on environmental protection .
it offers more power , more choice , lower prices to citizens across europe and indeed across the world , and in my view the best thing that governments can do in cyberspace is to stay out of it as much as they possibly can and let consumers , businesses and citizens get on with their businesses and their lives .
we need a basic legislative framework for e-commerce .
i hope it will be a light-touch framework , but we need to drive it through quickly because the e-clock is ticking and there are many organisations around the world fighting for this business .
we should adopt new rules on jurisdiction which trust consumers to make an informed choice about which jurisdiction they want to opt for .
we must take the utmost care to ensure that all sectors of society benefit from the information society and that we do not create a society in which social inclusion or exclusion depend on access to the new technologies and the use of their potential .
the first relates to the users and the risk of a gap emerging between the various victims of social exclusion .
my third and last point relates to the question of public service and improving the democratic systems to develop procedures ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , commissioner , e-europe is a really important programme for everyone en route from the industrial society to the information society .
the focal point of the report and the prime objective of the commission ' s proposal make it clear that we need to achieve equal opportunities for , and equal participation of , all citizens in the information society .
this goal , in my view , does not justify the concerns raised here about a possible division in society between the haves and have-nots as far as access to information is concerned .
mr president , commissioner , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the successful work that has been done in so short a period of time .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i think it is very important for the european parliament to take part in the debate on the european union ' s attitude to the opportunities opened up by the information society , an item on the agenda for the lisbon summit .
the european parliament ' s committee on employment and social affairs is calling for the information society to become the common property of all citizens , including the socially weak , the disabled and older people .
once they are able to share in innovation , once they can be won over by the information society , then it must be made clear that this is a success or an advantage not just for private- and public-sector undertakings , but for consumers and employees alike .
we must increase competitiveness and the development of ideas in our part of the world , that is to say in europe .
i hope that these documents will answer many of your concerns in relation to the realisation of the goals of e-europe , but it may be that some of the issues will not be addressed , because we must try to remain focused in this initiative .
it is important that we in the european institutions , along with member states , develop effective means of exploiting the potential of regional technologies , to increase both the efficiency and transparency of our interactions with citizens .
the commission is asked to include an eleventh action line on employment and social cohesion .
the " e-europe " communication focuses on the actions necessary to accelerate the transition to the information society .
the efforts which you have made confirm that you share with us a sense of the importance and urgency of this issue for europe .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 12 noon .
mr president , before we vote on the jackson resolution on the structural fund programmes , may i draw parliament ' s attention to the french council of state decree dated 27 september 1999 which cancels the notification of 500 sites that could be designated as special conservation sites and therefore pose a problem .
the commission has not expressed its opinion on that .
to ensure that member states are not unjustly penalised , i move that the vote on this report be deferred until the commission has delivered its reasoned opinion on action to be taken following the council of state decree .
mrs isler beguin was not in committee on the days we discussed these subjects .
if the house could agree we could overcome all the difficulties that we have with the language versions by putting in as a separate paragraph itself - either as a sub-paragraph of 45 or as a new 45 ( a ) - which says " and urges them not to imprison young people who commit offences , except as a last resort " .
it is , then , not only a question of the right to form trade unions but also of rights vis-a-vis these trade unions . ( parliament adopted the resolution ) mr president , i should like to make a point of order .
so i agree with you one hundred percent .
i agree with mr pirker , and it is probably the only thing i will agree with him on if we do vote on the ludford report .
we have already overrun by 45 minutes .
mr president , in order to be completely fair , you should have called for one intervention for the decision to suspend the sitting or continue and adhere to the scheduled voting time and one intervention against .
mr president , i am sorry but i asked for the floor at the start .
the rapporteur has stated that she agrees with your suggestion , i.e .
allow me to recapitulate : the president said that we are to vote at 5.30 this evening on whether or not to postpone the vote until the next plenary session .
sarah ludford has stated that she agrees with that .
this approach must also take account of the need to put more effort into the total eradication of diseases like leucosis , tuberculosis and brucellosis , and into adequate health procedures .
ferrer report ( a5-0066 / 2000 ) - ( da ) we cannot vote in favour of the report since there are gross abuses of human rights in mexico .
that has most recently been demonstrated in an amnesty report from december 1999 which draws attention to , among other things , the serious problems in the chiapas region .
finally , this agreement ignores most of the proposals put forward by social , trade union , human rights and environmental organisations in mexico and the european union which , for their part , aim to ensure that social , cultural and political cooperation take precedence over mercenary aspects .
we abstained on the gue resolution because , although we agree with a number of its criticisms of the commission , in the recitals the commission is described as an " indispensable interinstitutional instrument " , which is not how we see it .
duff / voggenhuber report ( a5-0064 / 2000 ) mr president , we heard many speakers from the federalist majority of this parliament say here yesterday that the charter of fundamental human rights under preparation would give a big boost to citizens ' rights .
of course , some people will say this was merely a new formulation of existing rights , but it is clear that this operation will go much further , with the european parliament already calling for an innovative charter .
mr president , i voted for the report despite many misgivings because it included mrs morgan ' s excellent proposed amendment on minority languages and cultures .
but i think that we have taken an important step here towards greater protection of minorities traditionally present in the european union .
mr president , my party , the socialist party in the netherlands , is in favour of democratic cooperation from the bottom up among the european peoples , but not of a large european superstate modelled on the united states of america .
of all the groups represented here , it is their view that takes least account of equivalence , democracy and human rights .
mr president , this week parliament has dealt with the european union charter of fundamental rights and we have specified - adequately i believe - the civil rights of individuals .
for me , however , as a representative of the basque country , collective rights are still lacking - and i hope they will soon be included - for example , the right of self-determination for european peoples and nations with a collective consciousness as such , so that , if a majority of their citizens so decide , they can join the european union directly and not just through the existing member states .
we are in favour of the drawing up of a charter of fundamental rights in the form of a political document .
a charter could make a positive contribution to this .
drawing up a set of binding , fundamental rights would raise a series of very difficult questions of principle , in terms both of the content of these rights and of their relationship to other sets of fundamental rights , for example the european convention on human rights .
if we nonetheless choose to vote in favour of the whole report , that is because we believe that fundamental human rights are one of the foundations upon which the eu is built and because we want a charter concerning these to be drawn up in the form of a political document .
whether it is subsequently to be incorporated into the treaty in a form that is binding will depend upon an assessment of whether the content of the charter would provide citizens with better protection than that which they have at present . - ( sv ) the most important development for the eu ' s future right now is that the intergovernmental conference should reach agreement concerning the reforms which are required in order to facilitate the enlargement of the union in accordance with a fixed timetable .
we have voted in favour of the eu ' s charter of fundamental rights being introduced as a matter to be considered by the intergovernmental conference , thereby guaranteeing , among other things , citizens ' rights in relation to the eu ' s institutions .
moreover , we do not wish to see two sets of rights on the european continent - one for citizens of eu countries and another for citizens of non-eu countries .
it is therefore crucial for any eu charter not to affect existing international conventions and declarations of rights , but merely to require that eu countries sign these .
we do not , however , see it as a solution for the eu to accede to the convention on human rights as a juristic " person " , since we do not share the view that the eu is , or should be , identified as having the status of a separate politico-governmental body .
the european court of justice should not have jurisdiction over areas already covered by the court of human rights in strasbourg or by other international bodies .
on the contrary , we are persuaded that in future we shall see a europe without frontiers between unified nations , from one end of the continent to the other .
as the representative of the people of the european union , our parliament must take a very careful look at the contents of this document .
any amendment of the charter must come under the same procedure as its original drafting procedure , which means it would require the assent of the european parliament .
the indivisibility of these fundamental rights must be recognised by making the charter applicable to all the european union ' s institutions and bodies and all its policies , including those contained in the second and third pillars , in the context of the powers and functions conferred upon it by the treaty .
already , within the european union , member states have ratified and transposed into their legal systems the european convention on human rights , which , although the document is nearly 50 years old , has shown itself capable of evolving in line with changing conditions as well as developing new rights .
i believe that what is now proposed with this ' charter ' will eventually lead to conflict between the interpretation of rights under the different documents , which could create a legal vacuum and , ironically , reduce the rights available .
we need more time and debate on these potential conflicts . - ( sv ) at the council ' s meeting in cologne , it was decided that an eu charter of fundamental rights should be prepared .
the relationship between the european court of justice and the european court of human rights appears , for example , to be legally complicated and could undermine the european convention on human rights .
we are therefore abstaining from voting in the final vote . - ( da ) the danish liberal party ' s five members of the european parliament , bertel haarder , anne e .
we are not voting against a charter itself , but so far the process seems to suggest a wasted opportunity to protect the citizens of europe from the overburdening powers of the european institutions .
there is a gap to be filled in providing fundamental rights to citizens of the member states concerning european regulation and legislation .
conservative meps will continue to examine the progress of the proposed charter through our representative on that body , timothy kirkhope , mep , ( yorkshire ) , and in discussions with our colleagues in the european parliament , and we will be as positive as possible in this exercise .
a charter of this kind should be based on the most progressive acquis and combine social and democratic rights .
a charter of that kind would offer support to all those men and women who are fighting against a europe that lays off workers or expels immigrants who do not have the proper identity papers . - ( de ) i did not vote for the resolution , despite the fact that i am in favour of a charter of fundamental rights , because it contains demands which overshoot the mark and risk causing considerable confusion by formulating the same rights differently and , more importantly , jeopardising the universality of human rights .
i would much rather see the european union and , of course , all the member states , quickly accede to the 1950 human rights convention as opposed to the inevitable dispute regarding the new wording of the fundamental rights of union citizens .
in order to safeguard uniform case law and prevent differing interpretations , case law should continue to be the preserve of the european court of human rights in strasbourg which , thanks to the quality of its case law on the 1950 convention over the past 40 years , has provided a dynamic instrument which takes full account of the social , economic and ethical developments within our society .
a charter of this kind will have a very important symbolic value and will strengthen the confidence of our citizens in the eu and in european integration .
the charter of fundamental rights should be seen as complementing the european convention on human rights , which we believe should be incorporated into the treaty .
the charter should concentrate on the relationship between citizens and the european institutions .
the charter should be legally binding through its also being incorporated into the eu ' s treaty .
the charter must not only be a declaration , but also entail obligations of some kind on the part of the eu ' s institutions and member states .
in fact , the significance of this document is obvious if it is regarded as a potential preamble to a european constitution ; conversely , it would be redundant in those member states that already include these rights in their own constitution and legal traditions and confirm them by ratifying international texts such as the european convention and the universal declaration of human rights .
this kind of europe is based on a new totalitarianism in which man finds himself alone facing a community administration that is as remote as it is impersonal , in which the intermediate structures - and in particular the most vital one of all , the family - have been gradually destroyed .
however , we are at a very early stage in the process of determining the charter .
this decision will be made at a later stage as recognised by the report itself in paragraph 6 .
this is a complex process which needs clarity and precision at all stages to ensure that the end result is a positive and visible step forward for people in all eu countries .
in my view , a declaration would be more appropriate .
the european convention on human rights is an excellent tool for protecting human rights in europe .
at the same time , it is the european court of justice ' s practice to take account of the national fundamental rights applicable in the member states .
this practice could be affected if the eu were to obtain its own set of fundamental and human rights .
jackson resolution ( b5-0227 / 2000 ) my group voted in favour of the jackson resolution on structural funds in the environment because we believe in the principle of ensuring effective implementation of environmental law - in this case , the wild birds and habitats directive .
however , we are surprised that members of this house voted for the original proposal in paragraph 7 to cut off funds to some of our poorest regions in the eu .
members of the environment committee clearly cannot be aware of the undue delays that any non-approval of structural funds programmes would create , nor indeed of the new budgetary procedure that could involve not only delays but the loss of millions in funds in the case of the uk to merseyside , south yorkshire , the highlands and islands , northern ireland , cornwall and the isle of wight .
i therefore welcome the fact that this house voted by a majority against cutting off resources .
the structural funds regulation - decided unanimously last year by all the member states - clearly states that the ex-ante evaluation is a prerequisite to the programme and the planning documents which the member states submit to the commission for approval .
the structural funds regulation also states that this ex-ante evaluation should include an assessment of the environmental situation , especially in areas which might be influenced by structural fund intervention .
the commission is deluding itself if it thinks that it can use article 39 to recoup what it has failed to obtain during ex-ante evaluation .
yet the commission , ever faithful to its nature and its habits , cannot stop taking every opportunity to overwhelm the states and their citizens with new directives and pernickety little rules , which often bear little relation to real local conditions .
the only result of this kind of overload is to paralyse the economic players a little more each day and to hold back freedom of enterprise .
malmstrom report ( a5-0060 / 2000 ) mr president , i would like , as a matter of priority , to thank parliament for lending its support to aid for mongolia .
i hope this will lead to a much more proactive approach on the part of the commission , as i have not seen a sign of this yet .
with the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam , the european union has become more visible on the international stage thanks to the appointment of a cfsp high representative , in the person of javier solana .
the treaty of amsterdam has made respect for human rights one of the main objectives of the eu ' s common foreign and security policy .
furthermore , the democratic oversight of national intelligence services is , in any case , primarily a matter for national parliaments .
the united kingdom has one of the most effective systems of democratic oversight , both political and judicial , of its intelligence services in the world .
for example , we do not share the enthusiasm for an eu charter of fundamental rights .
while we value the role of the eu in supporting human rights , we believe that human rights regulation and legislation , as in so many areas dealing with the relationship between the citizen and the state , is a matter for national governments , and we do not welcome an extension of eu intervention in this area .
it is for these reasons that british conservatives have voted against the malmstrom resolution .
haarder report ( a5-0050 / 2000 ) mr president , i would have liked to have voted for the haarder report , in spite of certain passages in it , and certain statements , including some to the house , to the effect that there are no rights for the family and that to grant special rights to the family would be a discriminatory , not to say racist , measure .
if there are no specific family rights as such - as the committee on women ' s rights decided , very much against my wishes - then such rights do not exist for the other heterosexual or same-sex communities either and the section on " lifestyles and types of relationship " has no place in this report .
marriage and the family form the basis for human rights , as does the right to life .
secondly , i should also like to note that , broadly speaking , my group supports the haarder report and expressly highlights the fact that there was excellent cooperation with the rapporteur .
hence our support in principle .
we voted against it , however , because two points were accepted by the majority of the house ; i refer to points 53 and 54 , which tackle the issue of the family and the excessive support or special support for all alternative types of partnership .
mr president , i just wanted to add to what mr pirker has said by pointing out that i voted in favour of point 42 of the haarder report despite the fact that it contains an error because austria is named in connection with freedom of movement .
i am therefore able to tell the house that both felix habsburg-lothringen and karl ludwig habsburg-lothringen have valid passports without any form of restriction .
that same article defines the family in terms of the marriage between a man and a woman .
the international covenant on economic , social and cultural rights repeats the same idea by declaring , in article 10 , that " the widest possible protection and assistance should be accorded to the family , which is the natural and fundamental group unit of society " .
let me remind you that this report replaces the traditional memorandum on eu activities in this field which the council used to present to the european parliament every year to inform it of eu action on human rights in the world over the past year .
this report aims to explain the eu ' s motives and the institutional structures and instruments available to it for conducting an active policy of respect for human rights .
more specifically , the report points out that the treaty of amsterdam has introduced new human rights provisions in order to underpin eu action in this field , especially in the context of the cfsp .
thus the treaty has established respect for fundamental rights , as guaranteed by the council of europe ' s convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms , as a principle .
that means the european union is ' founding ' its action on the principles of democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms .
with enlargement , the european union has clearly announced to all candidate countries that respect for democracy , the law , human rights and minorities is a basic accession criterion .
our european parliament has a vital role to play in the formulation and practical application of eu human rights policy .
our powers have gradually increased so that this parliament has now become a forum for discussion of human rights , a recognised forum as our debate today proves .
on the situation of candidate countries , much progress remains to be made , especially in relation to respect for the rights of minorities .
i voted for these paragraphs because i agree with the objectives of the rapporteur .
secondly , i do not support the lowering of the age of consent below 18 years of age .
yet i would also like to draw my colleagues ' attention to two requests made in the report , which i find problematic .
paragraph 19 of the report , concerning the protection of national minorities , and paragraph 20 , calling for the ratification of the charter for regional and minority languages , pose real problems .
parliament firmly rejects abuses of fundamental freedoms throughout europe , as the haarder report emphasises .
the republic cannot recognise specific ' minorities ' or ' communities ' : in its view there are only autonomous and free citizens with equal rights .
in view of our convictions we must also express strong reservations about paragraph 20 of the report , which refers to the charter for regional and minority languages .
everyone is free to use one or several languages of his or her choice in addition to the language of the republic and everyone has the right to learn them at school .
the european union turns a blind eye to situations in which human rights are being savagely violated in order to protect its imperialistic interests .
the recent and continuing invasions in kosovo , using the rights of minorities as a pretext , and the unbelievable demands being made on yugoslavia are a typical example of how military intervention is being advanced as a general principle of international law at the expense of the principle of national sovereignty .
the effects of this policy are already visible in the rise of extremist , fascist powers and racist perceptions , and not just in austria .
an additional charter , european or not , will certainly not provide them . - ( nl ) we have consented to the haarder report but would like to make the following observations regarding paragraphs 19 and 20 of the draft report .
paragraph 19 urges belgium to sign the convention for national minorities .
so , whoever tries to change the situation in the brussels periphery using this convention will implicitly put the future of the belgian constitutional equilibrium at risk and illustrate once again that a european lack of insight into our federal system can lead one to think that we would be better off as the separate member states of flanders and wallonia , rather than as a federal member state of belgium .
moreover , we regret that in paragraph 5 of the ludford report , the same text was adopted for racism and xenophobia .
two of the provisions in that text call on a number of countries , including france , to ratify the european framework convention for the protection of national minorities and the european charter for regional and minority languages without delay .
i have voted against the haarder report because , in calling for the ratification of the european framework convention for the protection of national minorities and the european charter for regional and minority languages , it is seeking to promote a concept of european integration that is based on a vision to which i cannot subscribe .
according to that concept , the individual has particular rights based on his membership of a territorial , ethnic or religious entity , while the community constitutes the key means of mediating between the individual and the right he is claiming .
that europe affirms the primacy of a principle not found in the haarder report , the secular principle , which contains and synthesises all the other freedoms : right to respect for private life , freedom of conscience and religion , freedom of expression and association .
for the same reasons , i abstained on the report on the fight against racism and xenophobia in the european union . . ( sv ) it is incompatible with the subsidiarity principle and proximity principle that the 626 members of the european parliament should pronounce upon what vision of the family and what legislation affecting the family the 15 member states and the twelve candidate states ' national parliaments should arrive at .
in solemn speeches and addresses , such as that given this week in the european parliament by the prime minister of the country currently holding the presidency of the union , portugal , the wealth of europe ' s different cultures , traditions , languages and national identities has been emphasised time after time .
to then state that the family ' s - and , therefore indirectly , children ' s - legal position should be standardised throughout europe , as proposed in paragraphs 53 and 54 of the present resolution , constitutes a basic offence against the national right to legislate and against the eu ' s own subsidiarity principle , as formulated in the treaties of maastricht and amsterdam .
while the persistence of discrimination between men and women , with regard to pay for example , is unacceptable , to set men against women , as some feminist organisations do , would be sterile and put social cohesion at risk .
as we put it in brussels on 1 march , that kind of policy would reflect a profound contempt for women : women should gain access to political or administrative posts not through the mechanical workings of some form of quota but through the recognition of their merits and abilities .
women have a specific role to play in society : they have a vital family role to play in the procreation of the new generations that are essential to the survival of society , a role to play in educating the young ; they have an economic role , as mother of the family , but also a role within family enterprises ( family holdings , businesses , smes ) .
on the one hand , that implies giving the wives of self-employed workers who play a part in the family business a stable status and , on the other hand , recognising the economic and social role of the mother .
it calls for equal rights for same-sex couples and traditional couples and families , forgetting the vital role the family plays in social cohesion .
just imagine the psychological future of children with two fathers and no mother , or two mothers and no father !
western sahara the next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions : b5-0246 / 2000 by mrs gonzalez alvarez and others on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left ; b5-0253 / 2000 by mr sanchez garcia and others on behalf of the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party ; b5-0262 / 2000 by mr carnero gonzalez and others on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists ; b5-0272 / 2000 by mrs schroder and others on behalf of the group of the greens / european free alliance ; b5-0278 / 2000 by mr salafranca sanchez neyra and others on behalf of the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats on the western sahara .
we believe there should be more emphasis on asking morocco to concentrate its political will on resolving the conflict , because the sahrawis have demonstrated time and again that they want it finally resolved .
mr president , the european union - and parliament within it , of course - must strive to avoid a new conflict in an area which is already troubled enough .
the first is the united nations security council ' s urgent resolution of 29 february , which agreed to extend the minurso mandate to the end of may .
and here the high representative for the cfsp , mr solana , ought to play a more active role in achieving adequate guarantees for the sahrawi people through an active presence and direct participation in the stages of the peace process and the referendum .
the european union must fully assume its role of mediator in this process , which is important not just for the region itself , but also for the whole of europe , and especially for certain countries .
mr president , after the vote in east timor , the process of self-determination in western sahara is the last one outstanding in the world .
i would even say that the transition to full democracy apparently under way in the kingdom of morocco also depends on it .
from our point of view , the culmination of the process of self-determination in western sahara lies in the application of the peace plan from the united nations and the organisation for african unity .
in spite of the efforts of the united nations , in spite of minurso , in spite of the progress that has been made in compiling the electoral roll , the referendum keeps being postponed virtually sine die .
direct dialogue between the parties is essential .
the most important point in the resolution we are going to adopt here today is the european parliament ' s call to the council to take common action , as provided for in the treaty on european union , on western sahara .
mr president , i should like on behalf of my group to voice our serious concern at the current situation in the western sahara to the european parliament and , more importantly , the commission and the council .
the constant postponement of the referendum on the future of the western sahara is unacceptable .
at least 56 people have been arrested , including 27 women , for fighting for the right to self-determination .
we had a similarly dramatic situation a year ago in east timor .
mr president , to begin with , i want to agree with most of what has been said in this regard , especially by my colleague , mrs gonzalez alvarez .
i hope that we shall be able relatively soon to have a meeting in connection with what was stated here in the european parliament by german aid organisations the other day , namely that refugees in the camps are in danger of starving and that infant mortality and deaths in childbirth have already increased by an alarming amount in recent months .
i cannot think of anything worse than languishing for 25 years among the sand dunes and being taken in by referenda year upon year , only then to starve to death .
a referendum should have been held years ago , as it was in other countries such as east timor , latvia and other places where the right to self-determination has been exercised .
the position of the european parliament has always been to support , not the independence of the sahrawi , but the right of the sahrawi people to freely express their views .
mr president , the peace process in the western sahara initiated and led by the secretary-general of the united nations looked promising .
in its motion for a resolution , my group reaffirms the right of the sahrawi people to self-determination and calls on morocco to call an end to all forms of repression and to apply in full the houston agreements to which it has subscribed .
the united nations must do its utmost to ensure that the referendum is held before the end of 2000 .
i call on the council and the governments of the member states , in particular france and spain , to stop being so accommodating vis-a-vis the moroccan authorities and to involve themselves more actively in the success of the peace plan and the holding of the referendum , for that is the most appropriate democratic means of achieving a peaceful and lasting settlement of the conflict in western sahara .
as for humanitarian aid , the commission channelled more than eur 61 million through ngo partners to provide sahrawi refugees in the tindouf region with food , medical and sanitary aid between 1993 and 1999 , and even though the circumstances for delivering humanitarian aid in this case are quite difficult , this will not stop us from continuing our support .
thank you very much , commissioner nielson .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m .
mozambique the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : b5-0244 / 2000 by mr miranda and others on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left ; b5-0251 / 2000 by mr queiro and mr ribeiro i castro on behalf of the union for a europe of nations group ; b5-0254 / 2000 by mr van den bos on behalf of the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party ; b5-0263 / 2000 by mrs carrilho and others on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists ; b5-0276 / 2000 by mr rod and others on behalf of the group of the greens / european free alliance ; b5-0279 / 2000 by mrs maij-weggen and others on behalf of the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats on the floods in mozambique .
mr president , we are all aware of the tragic situation in mozambique , and it is a matter of the utmost urgency to provide the necessary aid so that the government can respond to the most urgent needs of its people and succeed in reconstructing the vast regions where destruction has been almost total .
it is equally important that all the countries cancel mozambique ' s debt in full so as to facilitate its recovery .
angola , for example , has powerful armed forces which could have given valuable assistance , or zimbabwe , just next door , or nigeria , which has an operational air force .
as a christian democrat , i am sensitive to the appeals of the catholic church in this jubilee year for positive handling of the external debt of the third world as a whole .
we know this is not the situation in mozambique , as poor as the country may be .
mr president , the media have portrayed a distorted image of the disaster which struck mozambique .
there is a need for much better cooperation between the aid organisations and the armed forces to this end .
the 25 million aid package is sufficient for now , but will need to be increased at a later date .
it is therefore up to us , parliament , the council and the commission , to closely monitor the victims ourselves .
as for the european union , it must take a leading role .
in addition , in cooperation with the local authorities and other countries and organisations , particularly the united nations , the european union can make a serious effort to organise and support the reconstruction of mozambique .
mr president , we all know that the consequences of the tragic flood disaster in mozambique would have been less serious if the more developed countries , and especially the countries of the european union , which has a special responsibility for the former portuguese colony , had reacted immediately by sending the necessary resources , especially helicopters , to help the population .
we appreciate the fact that he travelled to mozambique in person to assess the situation and to see what the eu could do in the way of aid .
moreover , i heard this morning that debts have most definitely been deferred but that it is to be examined how this will be dealt with in future .
mr van den bos has also pointed this out .
mr president , rarely has the european parliament devoted its attention to a natural disaster in circumstances so dramatic and so deserving of our support .
we have directed our attention to the following areas of concern : immediate relief , resettlement , rehabilitation , macro-economic stability and long-term development .
for the relief emergency aid and resettlement phase , the commission has approved two echo decisions for a total of eur 2.7 m for mozambique , and we are preparing a third decision for eur 5.5 m .
in addition , eur 1.4 m from the food security budget line have been made available locally to the delegation and the government of mozambique .
in addition to the action already funded in botswana , the commission is currently carrying out a humanitarian need assessment in zimbabwe , zambia and madagascar .
turning to the rehabilitation phase , during my visit i announced an initial amount of eur 21 m in additional funds from the development budget , of which 5 to 10 m will come from the ngo co-financing budget line and the balance from redistribution of earlier edf funds .
the commission is insisting on the need for reinforced coordination with the government around the shared comprehensive reconstruction framework .
the commission will provide its funding for the rehabilitation requirements in strict coordination with eu member states and the other donors .
as to macro-economic stability and long-term development : proposals intended to help mozambique maintain macro-economic stability are currently being appraised by the commission with the government and the world bank .
concerning coordination with other donors and aid agencies : the mozambique government , in conjunction with the un office for coordination of humanitarian assistance ( ocha ) , provides the principal platform for coordination of rescue and relief as expressed in the consolidated appeals they have made .
this local ownership of the coordination process should not be challenged by outside donors , at least not as long as it works reasonably well , and this - the un organisations in maputo informed us - is in fact the case .
the overall figure of funding for this disaster now stands at about eur 109 m globally , of which more than eur 91 m come from the commission and the eu member states .
the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m .
human rights the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : presidential elections in peru b5-0252 / 2000 by mr marset campos and mr jove peres on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left ; b5-0255 / 2000 by mr di pietro on behalf of the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party ; b5-0264 / 2000 by mr medina ortega and mr fava on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists ; b5-0270 / 2000 by mr lipietz and mr knorr borras on behalf of the group of the greens / european free alliance ; b5-0280 / 2000 by mr salafranca sanchez-neyra on behalf of the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats on the electoral process in peru .
war crimes in chechnya b5-0245 / 2000 by mr markov and others on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left ; b5-0256 / 2000 by mr haarder and mr vayrynen on behalf of the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party ; b5-0261 / 2000 by mr oostlander and others on behalf of the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats ; b5-0265 / 2000 by mr sakellariou and mrs krehl on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists ; b5-0271 / 2000 by mrs schroedter and others on behalf of the group of the greens / european free alliance on violations of human rights and humanitarian law in chechnya .
freedom of the press in serbia b5-0247 / 2000 by mrs morgantini and others on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left ; b5-0257 / 2000 by mr haarder on behalf of the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party ; b5-0266 / 2000 by mr swoboda and mr sakellariou on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists ; b5-0273 / 2000 by mr lagendijk and others on behalf of the group of the greens / european free alliance ; b5-0281 / 2000 by mr oostlander and others on behalf of the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats on freedom of the press in the federal republic of yugoslavia .
situation in iraq b5-0268 / 2000 by mr nair and mr sakellariou on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists ; b5-0282 / 2000 by mr buttiglione on behalf of the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats on the situation in iraq .
mr president , peru has had quite a troubled constitutional life with frequent incursions by the military into civilian life .
the european parliament has already had occasion to condemn this type of action by president fujimori .
yes , there are still elections in peru , there are political parties , there are means of communication and there are certain guarantees .
remember that , as a member of the andean pact , peru is bound to the european union by a democracy clause and the european community , or more specifically the community institutions , has a certain responsibility by virtue of that democracy clause to call for the electoral process in peru to be adapted , as far as possible , to certain essential democratic requirements .
mr president , as a member of the group of the greens / european free alliance and also as a member of the european parliament from the basque country , a land which has supplied a fair number of emigrants to latin american countries , i want to express my solidarity with all those who fight for human rights to be upheld - not only in peru , but throughout the world .
and i want to denounce the situation that exists in peru , a situation which is due not just to the complacency and connivance of the united states , as has been mentioned here , but also to that of plenty of other countries , including european ones , and the hypocrisy which reigns over international politics .
in this respect , the reference just now to a permanent human rights observatory for latin america seems to me entirely appropriate .
mr president , on 9 april the republic of peru will be holding presidential elections and legislative elections to elect the 90 members of congress .
as has already been mentioned , the european union maintains relations with peru in the context of the cooperation agreement signed with the andean pact , in force since 1998 .
we hope all the political parties will be able to take part in these elections freely and on equal terms .
war crimes in chechnya : mr president , our primary duty in the struggle to protect the civilian population , refugees and prisoners of war in chechnya is to do everything to finally bring the war in chechnya to an end .
only a political solution to all the issues connected with the conflict and reconstruction of the region will guarantee a change in the awful situation faced by the people in the towns and villages which have been destroyed , in the refugee camps and in the prisoner of war camps .
there are , however , two sides to this political tale of war and suffering , and i think we must seek more strongly to understand the causes of conflict between russia and chechnya , so that we can help to stem the flow of human blood more quickly another time .
mr president , i must contradict mr markov quite categorically .
of course , we must call on the russian authorities here but we too must become more involved than previously , because this is not a simple internal matter of state ; it is a question of human rights violations on a massive scale in an area subject to the human rights convention of the council of europe , in an area subject to the system of rights and values of the osce .
today we discussed the right to self-determination in the western sahara ; i should like to point out that the chechen people also has a right to life and we must safeguard the chechen people ' s right to life , either jointly with russia or on our own .
it seems to be becoming a permanent phenomenon in the region .
for example , the idea to use the tacis programme as a sanction will only lead to ordinary people suffering and has not deterred the russian government in their policy .
secondly , the human rights situation is intolerable , and we therefore need a proper investigation into violations of human rights by all parties .
we should be reminded , however - so as not to be too sanctimonious in all of this - that when chechen refugees turned to us for help we did not receive them in our own countries as we did on such a large scale with kosovo .
except that the russian government does not appear to be totally convinced of the fact .
we reject and shall not accept any unilateral interpretation of the agreement by the russian government .
this is a despicable war , whose prime victims are the people of chechnya , but also the young russian soldiers .
what public opinion sees is a few declarations condemning certain aspects of the war in chechnya ; what we are actually seeing is political and financial support for the kremlin .
many of the parties represented here in parliament form part of governments that are pursuing this policy of conciliation and support .
the serbian authorities are suppressing newspapers , independent radio stations and any radio stations which acknowledge opposition groups or parties .
the situation in yugoslavia is deteriorating by the day .
the new regime can only win the new local elections , expected in may , if the opposition is , in effect , eliminated .
the latter is a vital lifeline for the opposition which will be mounting campaigns again this spring and which certainly deserves our support , also where the media is concerned .
but it can never replace support provided to the media in yugoslavia , in serbia , media which deserve this support .
we just heard that mr wiersma was denied a visa to visit the opposition in belgrade .
mr president , apparently , the milosevic regime is not tired of fighting battles , not by a long shot .
the target , regional radio and television stations , is an obvious one from a milosevic viewpoint .
situation in iraq : mr president , the majority of the security council - france , china , russia - is now in favour , subject to certain conditions , of lifting the embargo imposed on iraq nearly ten years ago .
the international atomic energy agency has concluded , after a number of investigations on the ground , that iraq has no capacity to produce nuclear weapons , as has been confirmed by the reports of three groups of experts on iraq , and as the un security council ' s resolution 1284 confirms today .
that is why our resolution calls for this embargo to be lifted .
washington has refused this proposal too , thus creating a situation which primarily hits the iraqi people and not their leaders .
for the first time in ten years , an american delegation of advisors and congressmen published a report yesterday , on 14 march , on their return from a visit to iraq .
our resolution therefore calls for an end to this situation .
at that time , we will endeavour to obtain the support of all those who want to bring this inhumane embargo to an end and to do so , needless to say , without giving saddam hussein ' s regime a blank cheque .
as things stand at the moment , the iraqi government is not prepared to accept this resolution , and there is a real danger that when the united nations commission responsible for monitoring the destruction of weapons of mass destruction applies for an entrance visa it will be refused .
i am sure that the iraqi government is prepared to accept resolution 1284 - a fact confirmed by contact with the iraqi leaders - but it needs clarification on certain points which are referred to in the resolution .
i feel that it would be more destabilising for the regime to return to a more comfortable situation in terms of trade , to a situation in which the people have at least some hope of happiness , rather than to continue with the embargoes which , at this stage , are not succeeding in overthrowing the regime , but are simply inflicting enormous suffering on the people and , in particular , on iraqi children .
i feel that our resolution should also serve to reassure the state of israel .
we must therefore make it clear to israel that a major concern of our policy is the defence of the state of israel and the right of the state of israel to exist .
we must draw up a balanced resolution which is acceptable to all the parties involved if we want to avoid the military clash which is lurking over the horizon : not a demagogic declaration , but a political proposal in which europe takes control in order to protect world peace , exercising its key role in this area with due responsibility .
nevertheless , i realise that it is also important for us to achieve as great a consensus as possible in order to give our governments a firm basis .
but the debate will continue , regardless of what is going to happen in the next part-session in april and which i hope will accord with the political wishes the two of you have expressed here .
we should not forget that in january this year parliament passed a resolution asking that the kuwaiti prisoners of war still imprisoned in iraq should be released or at least that details should be given to their families and that there should be compliance with the united nations resolutions .
mr president , the un sanctions have become a weapon of mass destruction , claiming at least 200 children 's lives every day .
dennis halliday , who resigned from his position as director of the un humanitarian mission in iraq in protest at the sanctions , confirms the unicef statistics - five to six thousand children die every month as a direct result of the sanctions .
mary robinson , the un high commissioner for human rights , has been speaking out against the sanctions imposed in violation of international law , which prohibits the starving of civilians as a method of warfare .
these most sensitive health indicators show that iraq is at the lowest possible level in the table after afghanistan , djibouti and somalia , as the least developed country in the region .
this is the country which , per capita , has the capacity to be the richest in the world .
the fault lies with the government of iraq .
the european union - and we have debated human rights , xenophobia and discrimination at length over the past few days - must fight against this extremism with all the means at its disposal wherever it occurs , at home , in the candidate countries or throughout the entire world .
we have to support all available initiatives .
in this sense , mr president , i consider it important for europe to raise its voice and call on both countries , both india and pakistan , to do whatever they can and to offer them both international aid if they consider that it is needed or makes sense in order to resolve this conflict .
but when i was in azad kashmir and i went to one of the refugee camps a few years ago i was very moved by the first-hand accounts i heard .
relations between india and pakistan are indeed deteriorating , with kashmir being a particular bone of contention .
tensions are also being aggravated by the fact that these two countries are nuclear powers .
indeed , in the herald tribune of tuesday , march 14 , 2000 , the headline reads : " nuclear war between india and pakistan is a real possibility " .
for this reason alone , supported also by the well-known un resolutions and the reference which has already been made to the constant violation of human rights , kashmir is no longer a problem that can be swept under the carpet and not debated in this parliament , as has happened for many years .
the us is in favour of arbitration , but it strikes me that , when president clinton visits these two countries next week , india should be asked to come to the negotiating table so that , together with pakistan , it can find a long-term settlement to this kashmir question .
as these two approaches are made , this two-pronged approach by the european union and the united states is , in my view , the best way to start the process for long-term peace and stability in this region .
i am then often ashamed at how little influence we can exert as a huge economic power in the political field .
india and pakistan were supposed to attempt this on their own , but this only led to a whole raft of small conflicts which - and the previous speakers were right to underline this - have taken on more threatening proportions since both countries have become nuclear powers .
i am convinced that international mediation is desirable and necessary .
the political and military situation needs to be further stabilised in order to create a climate for bilateral talks .
some member states announced , however , that they would be sending observers on a bilateral basis including , in some cases , representatives of their national parliaments .
the commission also reiterated this message through foreign minister ivanov during the ministerial troika on 2 march , where we submitted to him a number of concrete proposals including echo assessment missions to chechnya , ngo access and basic requests , visits of eu diplomats to the region before presidential elections to report on civil conditions , the humanitarian situation , alleged human rights abuses and investigations .
on the media situation in serbia , the mounting series of actions taken against studio b by the authorities last week are wholly unacceptable and we deplore them .
the increasing pressure put on the independent media shows just how important those media are .
the european commission has made great efforts to support the independent media in serbia .
the european commission 's europe-by-satellite service is continuing its support by making available time on its service for independent tv stations in serbia to broadcast information which will reach the rest of the region and encourage exchange of programmes .
ways should be pursued to engage the iraqi government in a dialogue on the implementation of un security council resolutions which might lead to a gradual easing of sanctions .
the commission is , however , concerned about the restrictions imposed by the iraqi government on ngo operations , which may jeopardise the implementation of echo financed humanitarian aid programmes in iraq .
finally , mr president , on the situation in jammu and kashmir , the commission welcomes the european parliament 's deep concern regarding the kashmir conflict reflected in the different draft resolutions .
india should be encouraged to look for and explore the full potential towards internal political solutions to meet the expectations of the jammu and kashmir populations in line with the possibility for enhanced autonomy as enshrined in its constitution .
thank you very much , commissioner nielson .
the debate is closed .
mr president , i support the motion for a joint resolution tabled by a large number of my fellow members and supported by the most representative groups of this parliament , for we must call urgently upon the governments of the member states to intensify the fight against organised crime and make it more effective where , in addition to cigarette smuggling , this involves drug and arms trafficking and , even more importantly , the trafficking of human beings .
our colleagues in the public police departments do not only deserve our full solidarity and respect ; above all , we owe it to them to acknowledge once and for all that , wherever we live in the european union , officials of the guardia di finanza in apulia , for example , and i say this as a german member of parliament , are protecting the territory and the citizens of my country .
i think that we in this european parliament owe it to the relatives of the victims to acknowledge that respect for the dead is not an italian but a european matter .
the second is a political challenge which , in my view , we are not taking seriously enough .
however , we hope that the council and the commission will be able to mobilise these governments through their endeavours and that an effective action of this kind will be instigated at the conference scheduled for 19 and 20 may , in which both institutions are to take part .
mr president , the tampere summit last year took note of the extremely difficult situation of some of the regions of europe , and set the date for the forthcoming conference of 19 and 20 may next which is on the very subject of the security and development of this area .
on the one hand , it is only natural - and i was the rapporteur for enlargement to the east and internal security - that we need to worry about higher security standards , not only in the candidate countries , as we do in the eu itself , but of course in all other european countries .
we are therefore against point 4 of the joint resolution which names montenegro .
of course , montenegro also has internal security problems , as we do in the eu for that matter .
mr president , i consider the consensus reached in this chamber on the need for a new initiative to fight organised crime very important , in particular because of the realisation which spread from the group on behalf of which i am speaking , that the dramatic events in brindisi are not just an issue which is confined to the region of puglia , but that they draw on values , principles and objectives which are an integral part of the new european policy and on the question of justice and security for the citizens of the union .
after all , security is one of europe ' s objectives in the treaty of amsterdam and was on the agenda of the european council held in tampere in the autumn of 1999 .
we share the preoccupation expressed in the resolution as to the risk of seeing the reconstruction and development efforts in the context of the stability pact being jeopardised by international criminal networks that engage mainly in trafficking in human beings , trafficking in drugs and arms as well as in smuggling of goods .
as you are aware , the european council has shown its strong determination to fight against organised crime and has demonstrated the need for a coherent and coordinated approach by adopting in june 1997 an action plan to combat organised crime .
although many actions envisaged aim to encourage cooperation between the fifteen member states , the plan does not neglect the need also to develop wider forms of international cooperation .
the tangible result has been the conclusion by the council in 1998 of the pre-accession pact on cooperation against crime with the candidate countries .
as regards the specific question raised by the resolution and related to the situation in the balkans , the commission agrees that there is a real danger of massive development of organised crime activities if no coherent and coordinated action is set up in this region associating the various donors as well as the international and regional actors .
the commission considers that the member states have a crucial role to play in providing their expertise and human resources in supporting specialised projects in the fight against various criminal activities in the balkan region , including the fight against corruption .
the commission remains convinced of the crucial importance of making all the necessary efforts to support effective measures for the fight organised crime and is determined to develop , within this new framework , regional projects covering the field of justice and home affairs .
in addition , the commission is already in a position to announce that , under its programming of the assistance envelope of regional programmes for 2000 , around eur 2 m have been earmarked for projects within the field of justice and home affairs .
furthermore , as regards trafficking in certain goods such as the smuggling of cigarettes , and insofar as this traffic also affects the community 's territory and its financial interests , olaf has set up multi-disciplinary and multinational task groups .
these groups work to combat organised crime whose transnational dimension has been demonstrated on several occasions .
in 1996 , for instance , cigarette smuggling , mainly in the transit regime , totalled ecu 800 m .
the overall financial impact of fraud detected in this area in 1997 was an estimated ecu 1.6 bn covering community own resources and national revenue .
all in all we take these threats to the community very seriously and will continue working hard to fight them .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m .
over the years , this convention , with its 148 signatories , has saved many plants and animals threatened with extinction .
once again , it seems unlikely that the correct decisions will be taken at the cites meeting in nairobi and once again , we will be stepping in to prevent the wrong decisions from being taken .
in this intervention , i would like to focus on three risks .
the first risk concerns the fact that a number of southern african countries have proposed moving the african elephant from appendix i to appendix ii , which means that the controlled hunt will be allowed .
together , these countries would like to harvest more than 50 tonnes of ivory .
as this species mainly lays its eggs in cuba , people think that there are plenty of them and would like to kill 500 of these tortoises per annum , only to serve them up at exclusive restaurants , with the shells being sold off to japan .
in a nutshell , these are three examples from a series of proposals in nairobi which cause us great concern .
mr president , as the previous speaker said , this resolution is addressed to the parties to the cites convention meeting in nairobi in april .
the first is providing information and raising awareness amongst the public , the buyers and sellers .
although we may not be aware of it , huge numbers of animals are also the victims of natural disasters and especially wars in africa .
between 10 and 20 april next , the fate of this elephant will once again feature on the agenda of the world community .
kenya , the hosting nation , and india have tabled the proposal to grant the african elephant full protection once again .
the commission continues its diplomatic efforts to ensure that a sufficient number of ratifications are made in order to allow the community to play a more proactive role in this important convention .
concerning the specific matters in parliament 's resolutions , we agree on the need to step up enforcement measures in the field of wildlife trade in india .
thank you very much , commissioner nielson .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m .
mr president , i support the proposal by my friend , the very honourable member , baroness ludford , with pleasure .
before the vote on amendment 53 mr president , on behalf of the gue / ngl group , i wish to withdraw amendments 53 and 55 relating to paragraph 17 of the report .
it does indeed seem that the wording of these two amendments could give rise to conflicting interpretations , especially in certain language versions .
amendments 53 and 55 called for the term " ethnic " to be deleted .
but i wanted to ask him whether he does not think the same problem could arise with the part of the first sentence of amendment 54 that has not been changed and which , in the english version i have before me , reads : " stresses that the eu must collect reliable ethnic data as a basis for review " .
we spent a very long time voting on this .
unfortunately , our group was unable , for a number of fundamental reasons , to vote in favour of the ludford report on countering racism and xenophobia in the european union .
most of our group therefore abstained or voted against .
firstly : the ludford report flouts and violates the underlying principle of subsidiarity by calling in points 4 , 6 , 27 second indent , 11 and 20 for measures such as the recruitment of third country nationals to public office or formal requirements to change curricula and teacher training programmes .
secondly : the report deals with matters which have absolutely nothing to do with the subject of the report by calling in points 19 , 22 and 30 for measures such as rights for third country nationals to vote in local and european elections .
its absurdity lies in the fact that not only fewer than one-third of the members voted , but a statement was made about a member state of the european union , namely austria , a statement to the effect that parliament subscribes to the sanctions of the fourteen member states .
my group has therefore been compelled either to abstain or to vote against the report . ( applause ) mr president , i voted against this report because i judge a good bottle of wine by its contents , not its label .
although we do not agree with many of the recitals in the report on countering racism and xenophobia , we voted for that report because it takes a stance against discrimination and in favour of the rights of minorities .
and i could give further examples of this kind of thing to justify our abstention .
we abstained on point 10 .
i do not think this kind of resolution does any credit to our parliament . - my group and i are pleased to have voted for and supported the ludford report which is concerning the important subject of the fight against racism and xenophobia .
we are , nonetheless , abstaining from voting in the final vote because we believe that labour market legislation is an area to which the subsidiarity principle ought to be applied , as mentioned in paragraph 17 . - ( fr ) the ludford report on countering racism and xenophobia , like the haarder report on human rights in the european union that is also before us , seem inspired by some malevolent spirit that is prompting them to go beyond the legitimate protection of the rights linked to human dignity and to methodically destroy , one by one , all the bastions of citizenship , regardless indeed of whether it is national or even european .
i think the approach taken in these reports is a kind of violation of our terms of reference .
the two reports also join forces in calling for the right of immigrants to vote and stand for election in local and european elections .
another revealing point common to both reports is that they call for the proposed new ' rights ' to be enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of eu citizens , now being drafted , on which i gave my views the day before yesterday during the debate on the duff voggenhuber report .
we think it is important to combat racism and xenophobia by guaranteeing citizens the rights to education , access to the labour market etc .
it is also positive that the report should recommend that citizens of third countries should have better opportunities for integration .
as the report points out , we really must express " horror at the entry into government in austria of jorg haider ' s freedom party " .
this open breach of the founding principle of our european union , namely unconditional respect for fundamental rights , must not create a precedent .
let me conclude by asking for consideration to be given , in the framework of the igc , to possibly amending the treaty of amsterdam , specifically its article 7 which concerns action against any member state guilty of a " serious and persistent breach " of fundamental freedoms and rights .
the report we are debating deals with a series of points we fully agree with , aiming principally at guaranteeing the fundamental rights of the citizens of third countries who choose one of the member states of the european union as a place of work and residence .
it is especially worth highlighting the need to give the citizens of third countries resident in the european union political rights , by granting them the right to vote in local and european elections .
in short , it is an abuse of the opportunities offered by our parliament to debate and determine issues like this which are vital and important and deserve better than this approach .
it is against that background that this year , as ever , we are once again debating human rights in the world and in the union , accompanied this time by a debate on countering racism in the european union and the candidate states .
these pseudo-defenders of the rights of man have quite simply forgotten that man is not a concept , a point in a political programme .
the human being has a dignity , a mission that are far superior , if not contrary , to what is being put before us today .
the ludford report is not an account of the good or bad situation as regards racism in the european union ; it is the political programme of an extreme left-wing libertarianism that , in the end , shows little concern for the natural rights of man .
faced with these tyrants , the european union is keeping vigil : since it is close to the people , and so concerned with their happiness , that it manages their daily lives , it will know how to promote new and hitherto unknown rights ; since its foundations and the way it works are so democratic , it will know how to create this new europe freed of all sin ; it will know how to be the undisputed guide that can lead all its followers towards ' a brighter future ' .
the european edifice will not be built simply by the addition of those who make it up ; it will be the result of a concordance of views about its destiny and the ways to achieve it , or it will not be built at all .
report ( a5-0055 / 2000 ) by mr belder mr president , the only reason we voted for this report is to reaffirm that we are opposed on principle to any form of racism , xenophobia and oppression of minorities , within or outside the european union .
however , that vote does not mean we agree with all the recitals and all the proposals in it .
at the same time , we do not think the states that already belong to the european union are in a position to teach lessons to countries that are only at the stage of applying for accession , given the extent to which the ignominy of racism and xenophobia is being propagated in most of the member states of the european union itself , by demagogues from the extreme right , even and including some within this parliament . - ( fr ) the european commission presented this communication on countering racism in the candidate countries in response to the request by the vienna european council of 11 and 12 december 1998 .
i welcome the communication , which reflects the european union ' s resolve to help the candidate countries to combat racism , xenophobia and antisemitism with determination , and to satisfy the copenhagen criteria relating to human rights , the sine qua non for accession to the european union .
the profound process of transformation that has been under way in central and eastern europe since 1989 has had its impact on the rise of racism , xenophobia and antisemitism .
this could be done through programmes such as phare ( and more specifically " phare-democracy " , now incorporated in the " european initiative for democracy and human rights " ) and the meda programme for turkey , which can provide back-up during these changes .
the european observatory of racism and xenophobia which will open its doors in vienna on 10 april this year must also make a relevant contribution to continuing the fight against racism , xenophobia and antisemitism in the candidate countries .
the report highlights one very acute problem in the candidate countries , the problem of respect for the rights of minorities .
pursuant to the treaty , the bank ' s initial capital is fixed at eur 5 billion while foreign exchange reserves are fixed at eur 50 billion .
the ecb ' s other source of income is the interest on its official reserves .
however , from that income the ecb has to deduct the interest it pays on its liabilities in euros vis-a-vis the national central banks .
however , in the event that interest rates vary , and to the extent that the source of income is highly sensitive to interest rate differentials , the share of income accruing from interest could fall very quickly and even produce a loss .
an internal ecb calculation indicates that the foreign exchange value at risk could exceed the ecb ' s current capital .
the treaty provides for a mechanism whereby the ecb can forearm itself against any erosion of its capital .
the european central bank can partially or totally retain the monetary income from the eurosystem .
in fact , the european central bank will probably close its 1999 financial year with a deficit of more than eur 200 million .
on 14 april 1999 , the european parliament endorsed an ecb recommendation on doubling its capital in the long term .
the recommendation under consideration today seeks to authorise the governing council to effect further calls of foreign reserves , raising the ceiling to eur 100 billion .
so it is simply a question of authorisation in principle to increase reserves as needed , without being pressurised by exceptional events .
in this context it must be noted that the total reserves of the eurosystem come to more than eur 350 billion .
in the event of another international financial crisis , which remains possible given the irrational exuberance of the markets , there could be a need for concerted intervention by the main central banks .
to enable the ecb to be a party to agreements such as those known as the plaza or louvre agreements , the committee on economic and monetary affairs felt it was clearly necessary to advise parliament to vote for the recommendation .
we want the ecb to be able to pursue its main objective of safeguarding price stability in total independence - including material independence .
we are confident that the governing council will make optimum use of the foreign exchange reserves in the eurosystem in the event of tension on the markets .
the european parliament also assumes that the ecb president will explain the decisions taken by his council when he appears before the committee on economic and monetary affairs and , indeed , during plenary debates .
the central bank has everything to gain from this improved transparency with regard to consolidating its credibility .
mr president , i will close my statement by emphasising , speaking for myself and addressing myself to the ecb , that the ecb is there to serve the women and men of europe , to serve the economy as a whole .
according to article 3 of the statute of the european system of central banks , owning and managing official foreign reserve assets is one of the tasks of the ecb .
the ecb is currently calling for a further increase of 50 billion euros .
we , the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats and the entire committee on economic and monetary affairs , as the rapporteur has already said , welcome this proposal .
at first sight it may seem acceptable to raise the current ceiling from eur 50 billion - in fact it is 39.5 billion because certain countries have not joined the single currency - to eu 100 billion , when we remember that the national central banks will still have eur 300 billion of own official reserves available .
the european parliament ' s report seems even more alarmist when it refers in so many words to the potential instability of the euro which , according to the rapporteur , does not need to be demonstrated .
the commission has adopted its opinion on this recommendation on 8 march , which reads as follows : " noting the rights of initiative of both the commission and the ecb , the commission has agreed with the initiative taken by the european central bank .
the commission has therefore adopted a favourable opinion on the ecb ' s recommendation .
the debate is closed .
i hope that the french state , the city of strasbourg and the european parliament will be able to take steps to put such small matters right in so expensive a building .
mr president , i do not have any comment to make on the minutes , but i do want to say something about the european parliament ' s information services .
right then , a fellow mep has just given me the session news about the debate we had yesterday on the ludford report , and i am disappointed to note that it makes no mention of the statement i made on behalf of our group .
very well , mr manders , we take note of all of that . ( the minutes were approved ) vote whether national or european , any central bank exclusively serves the interests of big investors .
this report sets a precedent , as it is the first time that the council has consulted parliament on these measures .
the european parliament would like the commission to make these priorities , which are priority objectives for agriculture in 2000 , easier to visualise in these next information measures .
however , another negative aspect of the commission ' s proposal relates to limiting cofinancing to a rate of 75 % , when actions implemented directly by the commission are financed at a rate of 100 % .
but when we come to think about it the amount of money is quite small - eur 27 million over a period of six years .
that is why i welcome that fact that most of it will be spent at the rate of 50 % rather than 75 % .
one of the things that was not widely understood was the importance of this policy from a social point of view : the fact is , that in all the depressed regions of the union , the common agricultural policy has maintained the population and supported communities , in a social sense , that would not otherwise have survived .
these have to be explained , not only to farmers , but to consumers as well .
amendments nos 2 and 6 concern organisations falling within the scope of aid .
this being the case , the proposed addenda are unnecessary .
amendments nos 5 , 8 and 10 concern measures that are eligible for aid .
they are unnecessary , as they are already contained in the commission ' s proposal .
local bodies are better qualified to do that .
amendment no 10 concerns article 5 .
amendments nos 7 and 13 concern contributions .
amendments nos 9 and 12 concern the allocation and approval of appropriations .
for this reason , the commission thinks amendment no 9 is not necessary .
amendment no 11 concerns evaluation .
amendment no 4 concerns administration .
amendments nos 1 and 3 concern linguistic nuances .
these the commission does not consider significant , as recitals 4 and 7 in the commission ' s proposal are not as restrictive .
the debate is closed .
the european parliament has been analysing this proposal since october 1999 and approved this draft legislative resolution unanimously on 23 february 2000 .
first , amendment no 1 on the inclusion of a recital 2a .
secondly , parliament ' s amendment no 2 proposes that seed vetches should also be included in the aid system .
thirdly , amendment no 3 indicates that , in our opinion , the commission should , without further delay , make proposals for the 2000-2003 period .
before i finish , mr president , i would like to point out that in 1993 - which is some time ago now - the council indicated that it intended to gradually strengthen the current aid system for grain legumes .
therefore , mr president , what the committee on agriculture and rural development of the european parliament would really like to see is an improvement in the system .
that is why we are presenting this proposal , which is really a maintenance proposal , and what we are saying to the commission is that , without further delay , proposals must be drawn up at the latest for the 2000-2003 period to achieve an improvement in this system without decreasing aid .
mr president , commissioner , the report that is being proposed for approval today in plenary refers to a minimal reform of regulation 1577 / 96 on aid for the grain legume sector .
mr president , i am participating in this discussion in order to support the report by my colleague , maria izquierdo , whose proposals , like those of the commission , seem to me to be beneficial and of interest .
grain legumes are a traditional crop in certain areas of southern europe , including spain and , more specifically , castilla-la mancha , the region i come from , which contains one third of the total area dedicated to these crops in spain .
the fact is that the system of aid established in 1989 has been modified several times , but no report has been presented on the application of the present system .
we are in a situation in which the agenda 2000 reform has been adopted and international trade negotiations are drawing closer .
the debate is closed .
member states are not legally required to demonstrate additionality at the regional or programme level .
the ex-ante verification of additionality is at present being undertaken in application of article 11 of regulation 1260 / 99 .
i do not think that there is a more important issue in wales at the moment than the application of objective 1 funds and it is important to look at the background to the issues that we are currently considering .
the additionality issue is an important one , but i must say it is not the only one which gives much concern to many members of this european parliament .
mr president , i should just like to touch on a couple of points that mr evans raised .
it is right that we have a proper discussion on the whole question of the structural funds .
i am referring to the report by the court of auditors on the principle of additionality .
this is a report that was published in the official journal of the european communities on 9 march .
this report contains a very interesting section - section 62 - that discusses privatisation .
and the response given to us by the commission in section 62 is very short .
there is a further problem , which should also not be hidden from the commission or the members of this house : we are talking about the impending enlargement of the european union with thirteen new member states , most of which have a far lower average income than that of the poorest regions of the community and there are no plans to fulfil cohesion policies with regard to these candidate member states .
mr president , while i endorse everything that mr medina ortega has said , i would like to say that , although we are a tiny group with very little time to speak , i did refer to the report of the court of auditors that he mentioned , which is indeed from 9 march this year .
mr president , commissioner , as has been said here , eu funds cannot replace member states ' public expenditure and the structural aid that runs parallel with it .
the commission must oblige the member states to work in such a way that the principle of additionality is implemented both nationally and regionally .
president , it is a great pity indeed that commissioner barnier has been unable to be present here this morning , because this is a matter within his brief which is causing great concern not only in scotland and wales but in other parts of the union .
indeed parts of my own constituency , the west midlands , have been awarded £ 550 million under the objective ii strand .
the structural funds programme provides , in many cases , the single most important and positive opportunity for our own worst-hit and most deprived areas to get up off their knees and back on their feet .
it is a great shame , therefore , that just by having this debate today , we are signalling our awareness that money from the structural funds programme is not allocated in many member states as it should be .
it is all very well for my colleague jonathan evans to imply that his party is not guilty .
the scottish conservative party candidate in ayr , john scott , has humiliated labour into third place - 5 000 or more votes behind .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on 11 april .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 17 march 2000 .
statement by the president ladies and gentlemen , as you know , on tuesday a terrible accident took place in kitzsteinhorn , near salzburg .
madam president , the verbatim report of proceedings for 16 march did not record my speech in full .
thank you , mr galeote quecedo .
mr sturdy , the chairman of our delegation , was unable to attend at that precise time , madam president , but he has written to you this morning to confirm what i am about to say .
this is regrettable in the extreme , since this was an otherwise excellent visit , and because we wish to maintain the best relations with canada , after so many difficult years , principally due to conflicts over fishing .
of course , mr berthu .
madam president , 13 april will see the start of the trial , in iran , of thirteen iranian citizens who are of the jewish religion .
i must ask you to intervene once again , and i also call upon the commission to intervene , to ensure that human rights are fully observed in the course of this trial , so that thirteen people are not condemned to death for reasons unknown , given that this parliament has repeatedly declared its opposition to the death penalty .
madam president , i shall be very brief .
so we are asking that the vote be postponed to the april part-session and that the deadline for putting down motions under rule 37 of our rules be re-opened to allow the committee eventually to table a motion on this issue .
madam president , i should like to speak in support of this motion .
is there any objection to mr watson ' s request on behalf of his committee to postpone voting on the resolution on the echelon system until the april part-session ?
the first one as you mentioned , relates to the proposals on the amendment of the directive on general product safety .
the two key objectives of the general product safety directive are , firstly , to ensure a high and consistent level of protection for consumer health and safety throughout europe and , secondly , to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market .
the report on the main findings will be circulated in parallel to the draft revision of the directive .
however , it does not apply where a specific sector of legislation covers the same aspects under consideration .
we also want to improve the rapid alert system , a system which is operated by the commission to monitor the information on dangerous products and measures taken .
we now also foresee the possibility of opening the system to third countries , in particular candidate countries .
we believe that in line with the general policy of the commission , citizens have the right to know which real dangers they are exposed to and the measures taken .
the limitations to this is , of course , professional secrecy , as defined in article 287 of the treaty , but that of course is except when there are overriding public health considerations .
i believe that this draft directive can effectively contribute to our common goal of ensuring a high level of consumer health and safety and i look forward to more detailed discussions with members of parliament in future on this issue .
they should be able to be confident in all areas and that a whole raft of instruments seems to have been implemented to that end , particularly the white paper on consumption and food safety .
today , in order to give more meaning to all the current thinking on consumer safety and in order to reconcile europe with civil society , particularly that society which successfully made its views felt in seattle and elsewhere , expressing its anxieties about food quality and food safety , could the commission not take the initiative of organising a forum for a large-scale debate between , on the one hand , the responsible parties from the commission , the representatives of governments and members of parliament , of course , but also the representatives of civil society , non-governmental organisations , consumers ' organisations , and professionals involved in the sector , in such a way as to ensure that these debates filter down to the european citizen ?
for instance , my service is currently putting the final touches to the framework document on public health , and contained in that document is a reference to the establishment of a public health forum , where issues relating to public health , and by extension the food and consumer affairs you draw attention to , will be able to be discussed .
i have been concerned by the lack of the involvement of the civil society in the issues that you talk about , particularly in relation to trade .
so i can assure you , mrs auroi , that i am concerned about these issues .
i take that responsibility seriously and we will be moving along in this way .
i have said on a number of occasions , including in this parliament , that the primary consideration must be the protection of the public .
in circumstances where there might be a conflict between the protection of consumers , particularly their health , and monetary issues , public health must , of course , take precedence .
they cannot , but in any situation of conflict where you have to choose one or the other , public health must always prevail .
madam president , commissioner , i wish to congratulate the commission on this initiative , which i believe to be extremely important .
you will be aware that our plans , which are set out in the white paper on food safety , contain a provision relating to the introduction of legislation in respect of a general food law , and there are many other legal provisions contained in the white paper which are designed to protect food safety , and by inference consumers .
i can assure you , mr campos , that the interaction that takes place at commission level on these issues puts a high premium on food safety .
in those circumstances , the provisions contained in article 287 must take a back seat .
let me also say that i fully agree with you that consumer confidence is best enhanced by the provision of full information .
the commission ' s services have worked on a proposal to introduce these tests in bse monitoring throughout the community since september last year .
currently we have three different tests which have been found to give excellent results when used to test animals with clinical signs of disease after their death .
the tests offer new opportunities to test a large number of animals on a routine basis .
the commission now proposes to replace that programme with a new programme where each member state tests a representative sample of dead-on-farm and casualty-slaughtered cattle in its territory .
i am also happy to be able to tell parliament that these particular tests will produce a result within 24 hours .
the proposed decision does not in itself have implications on the community budget but that is an issue that will be discussed in the special veterinary committee next week .
so the best possible date that i can predict for all this to happen and the best estimate that i can give for a commencement date having regard to all these factors is january 2001 .
i am convinced that , with regard to the consumer , we would be taken more seriously by producers if we were also to do away with the slaughter of animals at risk and if we were to have the same legislation throughout the entire community .
we know that there is a proposal there already and that will now be fast-tracked .
so all these factors must be looked at together .
it is not just one proposal that we are putting forward to you this afternoon as being the only answer to the protection of consumers in respect of the consumption of beef .
many of you have spoken about the need to put before anything else the protection of consumers , food safety and public health , and in those circumstances the scheme that we have devised for these tests is predicated on the basis that to acquire the most valuable and accurate information it is necessary to carry out the tests throughout the european union .
i hope that we will get a good response and i believe that from the contacts that we have had with some of the member states , there is a real apprehension in relation to these issues , not least because of the finding of the one single case in denmark very recently .
my question to mr byrne relates to the recent report of the food and veterinary office in dublin on the incidence of bse in france .
a large number of french departments - i think about 23 departments - had not apparently been monitoring for bse in the cattle populations within their departments , although they were departments in which there were a large number of dairy cattle .
the conditions and the controls in the abattoirs were such that one drew the conclusion from the report that it is perfectly possible today , 29 march 2000 , that animals with bse are still entering the food chain in france .
i have to say , in relation to reports from the food and veterinary office , that i have had discussions with them about the reports and we are currently reviewing how the reports are done , how they are written and what information they contain .
we have made a number of proposals and i am satisfied that when these proposals are put into place we will have met the member states ' concerns in relation to this and also , of course , taken account of consumer concerns .
aeroplane " hushkits the next item is the joint debate on two oral questions to the commission by the following members : mr hatzidakis , on behalf of the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism , on hushkitted aircraft ( b5-0018 / 2000 ) ; mrs jackson , on behalf of the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy , on the hushkit issue ( b5-0020 / 2000 ) .
mr president , i look forward with great interest to the commissioner ' s reply to this debate .
the first question one wants to ask is : is the financial times accurate this morning in forecasting that the commissioner is about to answer our questions by saying that only part of the noise regulation will come into force , the part relating to the european union , on 4 may .
we believe that what the commissioner is going to say is that the part relating to third countries , which should come into force from 2002 , will not come into force and will in fact be suspended .
the environment committee is the committee responsible within the european parliament for the original regulation on aircraft noise and we have watched with some dismay the reluctance of the united states to accept that the european union is within its rights to insist on bringing the regulation into force by the due date .
i think , however , that the commissioner may be about to announce to us that light is dawning and that we can see a way forward that will enable both sides to be satisfied and to allow sensible negotiations to continue for a global solution .
the first compromise put forward a little time ago seemed to many in the parliament to be much too shaky .
what is more , the international agreement of 1977 was never intended to artificially prolong the life span of aircraft due to be phased out , or to transfer aircraft from chapter 2 to chapter 3 .
however , it would be better still if the united states and the european union could conclude firm and reliable agreements on noise standards for aircraft .
the resolution that has now been produced by the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy aims to clarify the position of the european parliament .
despite our positive attitude , the americans for their part have shown supreme arrogance especially towards the european parliament , calling as i said earlier for the regulation to be withdrawn at first and then , as a slight concession , speaking about indefinite suspension .
a time came when it seemed that some progress had been made , though far from anything that could be considered satisfactory , but in the end even that slight progress has vanished in the last few days , since the us has petitioned the icao under article 84 of the chicago convention against the european union concerning the regulation whose purpose , as i said , is to protect the environment .
if good faith prevails , that agreement can become a reality .
and , of course , we believe the us ought to withdraw their petition to the icao under article 84 of the chicago convention , because that kind of action blows the spirit of cooperation sky-high .
mr president , i want to conclude with two respective observations .
the objective of this regulation is very clear : to achieve compliance with what has been agreed within the icao , that is to say , that the aircraft landing at our airports genuinely conform to the noise standards of the icao .
it is therefore a question of achieving new noise levels as international standards within the icao .
secondly , the americans must suspend their complaint to the icao in accordance with article 84 and we - this is something we could negotiate - could suspend the part of the regulation which refers to third country airlines ; but certainly not in reference to european airlines , since that regulation enters into force on 4 may .
only if there is in agreement on the other aspects would i come to parliament to ask for your support for a postponement with regard to third country airlines , for a suspension of the provision of the regulation in this specific respect .
the council also heard a commission communication on this subject yesterday , and i believe that it is becoming crucial to ensure that the hushkits issue is incorporated into a broader strategy for building a new europe in this area .
if you do not mind , mr president , i would also like to give a very brief account of the conclusions reached by the council yesterday on this matter , including the issue of hushkits .
it was the council ' s opinion that the measures to be adopted should , at the same time , ensure that a high level of safety is maintained , that there is fair competition , that the transport system works efficiently , and that there is equality of access to transport systems , taking account of the diversity of situations in the union ' s various member states and regions , and above all , the requirements of economic and social cohesion .
and we are being firm .
the presidency is convinced that we will achieve results and , once again , i would like to state before parliament that we have complete confidence in the work that the commissioner is carrying out .
in other words , we were not obstructive but we were firmly united in our willingness to introduce a regulation ; under the terms of which , i might add , the united states would , in any case , have two more years in which to complete the phasing-out process .
i also call upon the united states again to take our european legislation seriously .
we must support our commissioner and honour the legislation that we ourselves have adopted .
if it goes through in september of next year , then we still have enough time to suspend the regulation .
their future commitment depends on whether or not we are willing to defer .
ultimately , the us could even have europe thrown out of this organisation .
the political conclusion reached by my group is that europe must frame its own policy when it comes to the noise and environmental pollution caused by aircraft , both new and old models .
mr president , madam vice-president , mr president-in-office of the council , i am happy that we are here together today , after all the discussions over recent months , and can confirm that all three institutions - the two legislative institutions and the commission as the proposing authority - take the view that the regulation has to enter into force in may of this year .
once agreement has been reached on global standards in the icao working parties , we can start to adopt these global standards in our regulation insofar as it relates to third country aeroplanes for the year 2002 .
if , during the course of the legislative procedure , which takes six months or a year , we receive an indication in september that these standards have also been adopted by the general assembly of the icao as they stand , we can conclude the legislative procedure well before may 2002 .
the delegation for relations with the us is planning , as you probably know , a transatlantic legislators ' dialogue using video-conferencing techniques so that we can discuss and understand - and clearly the americans need to understand - what the powers of this parliament are , the positive powers and also the negative powers and also the importance of timing in our joint negotiations .
this is a critical case because it is about how we face hard decisions about how to begin to make a deeply unsustainable industry a little less damaging .
it is about how we put into practice the treaty of amsterdam on integrating sustainability concerns into all policy areas , even the very difficult ones .
i wonder if we can use this conflict and these negotiations with the us to enter into a broader discussion about a proactive global environmental policy on air transport more generally .
we need to be looking towards a new policy architecture to deal with all these questions .
it was voted through the last parliament without any debate .
it offends against the fundamental requirement for reasons under article 253 of the treaty in that there is no explanation at all in the regulation for the use of the bypass ratio of an aircraft engine as a criteria when internationally approved noise and emissions standards certification for aircraft engines already exist .
this legislation rolls out the proposal made by airbus at an airbus-hosted meeting in toulouse on 29 and 30 september and 1 october 1997 , effectively commercially sponsored legislation .
yes , mr president , noise pollution affects 20 % of our population , and 0.01 % comes from aircraft .
i fully support the objective of the regulation and we must agree on a timetable to implement noise standards , but it must be one based on objective performance criteria and not design criteria .
the integrity of this house demands detailed answers to questions which raise major doubts about aspects of a regulation upon which the motion before us is based and on which we will be asked to vote tomorrow .
secondly , mrs de palacio , mr coelho , in my view , the postponement of one year served no useful purpose , for the simple reason that american interests - and when i say american interests i mean the interests of one section of american industry - are clearly interests which run counter to the general improvement of standards , even more so in the case of ' hushkits ' .
there are only two things that will cause them to shift position : pressure from the european union or pressure from their own public opinion for , unfortunately , the united states is a vast territory and the environs of airports are less badly affected than the territories overflown in europe , which is , by virtue of its geographical layout , affected more seriously by such constraints .
we might at best revise them , but we could do so only in one instance : if an international agreement makes it possible to improve the situation and to draw up an overall framework agreement .
mr president , commissioner , as you know , i live in bilbao , a city in the basque country which , like other european cities , is very densely populated .
on 29 april 1999 , the european union adopted a council regulation with a view to controlling and reducing the noise produced by subsonic aircraft engines , limiting in due course the use of silencers , which do not resolve the problem completely , and helping airlines to update their fleets with new generation aircraft which create less pollution .
only under these circumstances could we accept a delay in our regulation for third countries .
we know there are better long-term solutions because we know our regulation applies only in europe .
your objective , madame palacio , is to get that world-wide effect .
suggest that to them , madame palacio .
there are four points i would like to bring out in this debate .
firstly , there must be a concerted , world-wide effort to produce more stringent noise standards for aircraft .
thirdly , our own regulation 925 / 1999 on hushkitted aircraft must come into force in undiminished form .
they must withdraw the complaint they filed under article 84 of the icao .
the regulation on silencers means nothing more than implementing the noise levels of 1978 and we are in the year 2000 .
i wish to make it very clear that the regulation on silencers comes into force on 4 may for european airline companies .
the regulation comes into force for european airlines on 4 may .
nevertheless , ladies and gentlemen , if we could reach an agreement with the united states to act jointly , in order to obtain lower levels and greater requirements in terms of aircraft noise emission , i would be prepared to make a proposal to this parliament and the council to suspend the provisions of the current regulation with regard to third countries .
mediterranean policy the next item is the joint debate on twelve oral questions on mediterranean policy by the following members : napoletano , sakellariou , obiols i germa , nair , on behalf of the pse group , to the council ( b5-0015 / 2000 ) ; napoletano , sakellariou , obiols i germa , nair , on behalf of the pse group , to the commission ( b5-0016 / 2000 ) ; rutelli , on behalf of the eldr group , to the council ( b5-0202 / 2000 ) ; rutelli , on behalf of the eldr group , to the commission ( b5-0203 / 2000 ) ; morgantini , on behalf of the gue / ngl group , to the council ( b5-0204 / 2000 ) ; morgantini , on behalf of the gue / ngl group , to the commission ( b5-0205 / 2000 ) ; queiro , muscardini , on behalf of the uen group , to the council ( b5-0210 / 2000 ) ; queiro , muscardini , on behalf of the uen group , to the commission ( b5-0211 / 2000 ) ; fiori , on behalf of the ppe / de group , to the council ( b5-0212 / 2000 ) ; fiori , on behalf of the ppe / de group , to the commission ( b5-0213 / 2000 ) ; bautista ojeda , on behalf of the verts / ale group , to the council ( b5-0214 / 2000 ) ; bautista ojeda , on behalf of the verts / ale group , to the commission ( b5-0215 / 2000 ) .
mr president , great is the frustration and disappointment of the european parliament , almost five years on from the barcelona declaration , at the lack of progress made in the implementation of the programmes and objectives it set out .
finally , mr president , may i say that the union ' s mediterranean policy could become one of the common strategies laid down by article 12 of the treaty on european union regarding foreign and security policy , and that we could also promote the political dimension of the issue through parliamentary debate .
the second point is more specific .
our feeling , which will become apparent from the resolution which is to be put to the vote , is that complete priority has been given to a procedure for the development of a free trade area , shifting the emphasis from other policies which , in our opinion , should go hand in hand with the objective of building a free trade area , which we fully support .
and yet two of the fundamental causes of the breakdown in the debate have now been eliminated : a new commission is installed in brussels which numbers the creation of a euro-mediterranean area of peace and stability among one of its priorities , and peace negotiations between israel , palestine , syria and the lebanon are once again in progress .
at the same time , however , i would stress that the bilateral approach hitherto adopted by the commission does not seem adequate to meet the numerous challenges presented by the mediterranean .
mr president , commissioner , mr president-in-office of the council , the need to create a euro-mediterranean area of peace , economic justice , citizenship and stability is common to both sides of the mediterranean .
the mediterranean is still the greatest benchmark of europe ' s capacity to exert influence beyond its borders .
the mediterranean policy is set in a context of wide-ranging interests and latent tensions , and it therefore has to include various different elements such as the development of peace-keeping initiatives - now that the middle east peace process has been relaunched - and we are grateful for the way that the pope ' s visit to the holy land is improving relations between the different religions , leading them towards mutual understanding and support , and the creation of partnership projects involving northern and southern europe , for the very reason that the objective of transforming the mediterranean into an area of dialogue , tolerance and cooperation that guarantees peace and stability cannot be achieved without firm political will and sustainable , balanced social development .
the need for a different , more efficient mediterranean policy for the developing countries in the basin cannot be disregarded .
the process defined in barcelona in 1995 for building an effective euro-mediterranean partnership is still ongoing , despite the intention expressed by the european union governments to include the mediterranean policy among their priorities , an intention fully supported by our group .
the forging of multilateral relations has not led to sustained expansion , and the cultural , social and human partnership is highly inadequate .
our group has faith in the mediterranean , and wants the european union to accord to it the strategic , economic and political importance it once had .
this is no need to remind you of the important common interests we have with those countries in terms of agriculture and fishing , nor the serious shared problems relating to immigration between andalusia and morocco , which create added difficulties .
european regions such as andalusia , which are very close to the countries of the maghreb , share more interests and problems with those countries than they do with other member states of the union , and far more than they do with the future candidates for enlargement .
in fact , this love-hate situation between certain community regions and the maghreb creates unnecessary tensions , both economic and social , which we must resolve by putting all our powers of negotiation on the table and by using all the existing mechanisms , or new ones which should be created , in order to relaunch euro-mediterranean cooperation .
another purpose is to prepare for the barcelona iv formal meeting of foreign ministers which will be held in marseilles in november under the barcelona process .
we think that it is important to undertake this assessment not just to be consistent in following up what we have already done in stuttgart , but also in order to analyse new priorities in some sectors where cooperation needs to be developed further .
as to establishing a free trade area , which is another area in the process of mediterranean relations , we feel that this should not be seen as an end in itself , but as a means of improving our citizens ' living conditions and of increasing their level of income .
the establishment of this area will certainly give the mediterranean countries an opportunity , by means of a process of free trade , to be part of a more interdependent world and , in this way , not to remain on the fringes of this global trend towards greater prosperity and well-being .
with regard to the meda programme , which is an important instrument in this context , the total sum available to the meda ii programme for the period 2000-2006 has not yet been announced and the commission has stated that it will soon announce proposals for distributing budget heading iv for external relations , which includes the meda programme .
the council is looking at the proposal submitted by the commission at the end of last year to simplify and improve the meda regulation procedures , in response to a request from our mediterranean partners .
the meda programme also funds activities in the areas of education and professional training , currently to the tune of around eur 1 billion per annum .
under the barcelona process , a meeting of employment and professional training experts will be held on 31 march and 1 april , precisely in order to look at how the southern mediterranean countries can be helped to define national policies for employment and professional training and to exchange information and experience .
with regard to the role of the high representative for common foreign and security policy , which was mentioned in one of the questions to council , i would like to confirm that the european union attaches the greatest importance to promoting a coherent and comprehensive policy for the mediterranean region .
we intend to play an active role in this area , not only in the context of the barcelona process , but also with regard to the middle east peace process itself .
the high representative is particularly committed to issues of this kind and took part in the last meeting , held in moscow , of the ministerial steering committee , which gave fresh impetus to the multilateral track of the middle east peace process , in which the european union is involved .
other specific issues on which the eu intends to continue working are , as you will be aware , the drafting of a common strategy on the mediterranean , as was decided at the cologne european council and reiterated at the helsinki european council .
this is more of a horizontal , multilateral common strategy , and involves a set of approaches which , in our opinion , must attempt to go further than the barcelona process itself .
by this i mean that if the common strategy does nothing more than repeat what is in the barcelona process , we will gain no added value in terms of a coherent eu policy towards our southern partners .
the european union is also working on an issues paper on the future of the region so as to be prepared to play its full role when peace is achieved through the middle east peace process .
with regard to the euro-mediterranean charter for peace and stability , which has attracted the attention of this parliament and which is occupying the council , following the remit given by the stuttgart ministerial conference in april 1999 , a schedule for work on this issue was drawn up , and meetings on this subject were held in november , december and march .
in response to another question , the council does not currently envisage a multilateral treaty between third countries .
while i am on this subject , mr president , i would like to say that many of the complaints made about how the mediterranean process is working are very often mirrored in the way north-south relations function .
with regard to the euro-mediterranean partnership , the french presidency intends to pursue the work that was started in the hague in march 1999 on migration and the exchange of peoples , by organising a new meeting of high-level officials in the second half of this year .
regarding the target date of 2010 and the question we have been asked about setting up a committee to look into what action may be necessary , we do not currently intend to set up any committee , but it is our firm intention to pursue and to conclude negotiations for association agreements between the eu and the mediterranean countries as quickly as possible .
the association agreement with morocco recently came into force , on 1 march , and the presidency is certain , given the progress made in ratification at national level , that the agreement with israel can also come into force in june .
the countries of the southern mediterranean have to understand that we must be in a position to guarantee equal treatment and that delaying tactics cannot be used to gain advantages in agreements signed at a later stage .
in particular , they must understand that earlier agreements cannot be reviewed in the light of benefits subsequently acquired in later agreements .
the european union has made efforts to show the southern mediterranean countries that establishing the single market has been a positive experience .
with regard to the middle east peace process , the question parliament has asked raises a fundamental issue .
the visibility of the middle east peace process is not an end in itself for the european union .
we have been steadfast in our support for this peace process not only through considerable economic assistance - and i would like to make it clear that this assistance is unparalleled in the history of the middle east - but also through the political initiatives themselves and their constructive support for the efforts of the united states and other key participants .
we will do what we can to assist the peace process , because it is peace that we are interested in and not our own visibility in this peace process .
in this area , i would like to make clear our commitment to the palestinian track , through our support for implementing agreements which have been concluded and by offering to contribute to discussions on that country ' s permanent status .
together with the united states and russia , who are co-sponsors of the multilateral track in the process which was started in 1991 in madrid , the council has been working towards normal recommencement of the activities under this track , after an interruption of three years .
in their capacity as joint chairs of the working group on economic and regional development , which has 53 members within the region and outside it , the council and the commission will bring this group together at a meeting on 8 to 11 may .
the european union will also host the next meeting of the steering group in july .
at its meeting of 24 january , the council asked the high representative , assisted by the special envoy and the commission , to look more closely at issues in which the european union is specifically committed to playing a major role , such as issues concerning security , water and refugees .
cooperation with civil society , which is one of the points raised in another question , is still an essential element in the development of the third chapter of the barcelona process .
a whole range of activities has already been developed , such as the establishment of a youth forum , and i hope that at the lisbon summit we can look at which areas these activities under the third chapter can be focused on , in order to enable civil society to play an increasingly important role in this area .
regarding the arab maghreb union , the council is convinced of the importance and the need for cooperation in a region of 80 million inhabitants sharing the same language and religion .
the council has confirmed its desire to see libya participate fully in the barcelona process and hopes that it will be able to give its full and unreserved acceptance of the barcelona acquis .
the ambassadorial troika has , in fact , just visited libya , on 26 and 27 march to be precise , and it was made quite clear to libya that its acceptance of the barcelona acquis would mean that it would have to negotiate an association agreement with the european union in order to be able to join the euro-mediterranean free trade area to be established by 2010 .
the issue of negotiating an agreement of this kind with libya is not currently on the agenda , but the council will discuss this if and when it becomes an issue .
under the portuguese proposal presented under the mediterranean forum and subsequently followed up through the barcelona process , a conference on investment throughout the mediterranean area was held in lisbon on 28 february to 11 march at which there was substantial representation from the private sector .
the participants highlighted the low and inadequate flow of investment to the mediterranean region in comparison with its potential , and in comparison with other parts of the world .
the council confirms that it is willing to contribute to establishing a climate of trust between all parties in order to find a solution to the problem of the western sahara based on human rights and on respect for democratic principles .
i have , of course , been answering a very long series of questions , and if i did not give the various questions the attention they deserve , certain honourable members might naturally start thinking that the presidency was not paying due attention to their questions .
we have gone into great detail on some of the different aspects of current mediterranean policy , even though this subject deserves even more detailed treatment in my opinion .
although there are grounds for disappointment in view of the expectations raised by the launching of the barcelona process in november 1995 - and i am perhaps one of the few people here to have been present at that launch , at the signing of that agreement - this is largely attributable to the political circumstances in the middle east , which were favourable in november 1995 but which have deteriorated considerably since then with the impasse that has arisen in the peace process .
nevertheless , we should not forget that despite these problems , the barcelona process has been able to continue and i think that it is important to highlight the fact that this is the only body that has managed to get the mediterranean arab countries , israel and the european union round the same table , which , in my opinion , in itself represents a considerable step forward .
the economic objective of the partnership is to create an area of shared prosperity through the progressive establishment of free trade accompanied by substantial eu financial support for economic transition and to help the partners confront the social and economic challenges which this implies .
the implementation of meda has been subject to criticism , some justified , some not .
the commission has put forward a proposal to amend the meda regulation to ensure a more strategic approach to programming , better coordination with other donors , including the member states , and streamlining of procedures .
the proposal is still under discussion in the council , and i fear , that far from supporting these objectives , the council may be moving in the direction of making the procedure even heavier .
we shall use meda to support the partners ' efforts in this respect .
regional cooperation to ensure that the region presents a unified market is also vital .
i want to encourage the harmonisation of single market measures among all partners - an action programme should be agreed later this year - and to offer diagonal cumulation of origin to those partners who agree free trade among themselves .
investments in these areas are primarily supported by loans from the european investment bank as well as other donors .
support for civil society is key to the development of the human dimension of the partnership .
mr president , at this stage it is obvious that this parliamentary initiative is born out of a general sense of concern in this house about the slowness , and even paralysis in some areas , in implementing agreements reached within the framework of the barcelona conference , almost four years ago .
from this point of view , parliament is justified in repeating its request that the european union make a more decisive contribution to the peace process in the middle east , especially given that the parties in the conflict requested this explicitly during the recent visit to the region by the president of the european parliament .
we are convinced that , in order to be successful , a european union common foreign and security policy must be based on the concept of balance in order to respond to the sensibilities of all the member states and , therefore , of all the citizens .
mr president , in november , five years will have passed since the signing of the barcelona declaration .
in this respect , this debate and the motions for resolutions tabled by the groups in this parliament are very appropriate initiatives .
the summits and meetings have always been held with the presence of all the countries involved , including syria , lebanon and israel .
however , these results cannot lead us to ignore the delays and shortcomings which , in part , have frustrated the hopes and expectations raised at the first euro-mediterranean conference of november 1995 .
it will depend to a large extent on the policy of the european union as to whether this region becomes a ' sun belt ' with a new economic and social balance in a context of security , development and peace , or a ' slum belt ' where the norm will be an increasing imbalance between north and south , galloping poverty in the south and the progressive emergence - forgive the repetition - of every type of emergency : violence , instability , terrorism and uncontrollable migratory pressures .
secondly , i believe that , as a result of this lack of political direction , the economic and financial dimension has experienced obstacles and delays .
in this respect , we should point out the difficulties involved in launching the meda programmes , the excesses of centralisation , the heterogeneous nature of aid criteria , the lack of joint reflection on the possibility of a common mediterranean agricultural policy and , thirdly , and as a consequence the tiny amount of direct investment in the south : just 2 % of the total of the european union ' s direct foreign investments .
in conclusion , a new phase is necessary , with the portuguese and french presidencies , a brand new start for euro-mediterranean policy , which could promote a ' virtuous ' circle encompassing the objectives which were correctly drawn up at the euro-mediterranean conference in barcelona in november 1995 .
thank you very much , mr obiols .
mr president , the council and the commission should take good note of parliament ' s practically unanimous position in favour of the relaunch of the union ' s mediterranean policy , as was established at the euro-mediterranean conference in barcelona in 1995 , under the spanish presidency , and whose characteristics have already been highlighted here .
on the other hand , we know that certain obstacles , basically political ones , have hindered its correct application .
i would simply like to remind you that , within a few years , the population in the south of the mediterranean will be greater than that of the north , but that practically all the wealth will be in the north rather than the south .
if the european union does not act quickly to redress the balance of this situation , both from a demographic point of view and from a social , economic and political point of view , we will be creating an explosive situation for future generations to deal with .
it is therefore a political priority to show political leadership , obviously accompanied by economic cooperation in order to improve the expectations of these populations and bring prosperity and stability to the whole of the mediterranean , because the prosperity and stability of the european union also depends on this .
i am very pleased to see that the joint resolution adopts the suggestion we made to ask the commission and the council to publish an annual report on the situation regarding human rights and the rule of law in the countries of the mediterranean .
we should therefore tell those countries where human rights are not observed that bilateral relations may be forced backwards , and we should tell the countries where there is real progress , such as in morocco or elsewhere , that bilateral relations may go forwards .
the situation of the rule of law and human rights in this country is scandalous .
i am bringing up these subjects because i believe we must not cease to remind the countries of the mediterranean of their responsibilities as regards the rule of law and human rights .
it is not enough to achieve good results in agriculture or anything else .
respect for human rights must take precedence in our policy , and that is not the case at present .
first of all , the objective of a policy of this type must be to tackle the blatant disparities between the northern and southern shores of the mediterranean , which keep the peoples of the south in an explosive economic and social situation .
the euro-mediterranean process thus calls for a pooling of resources which should be advantageous to all concerned in moving towards a common area of prosperity , which was the objective set in barcelona .
i should finally like to say that , besides working towards peace in the middle east , which the european union must continue to strive for , i am just as keen to seeing europe play a much more active part in ensuring that the referendum on self-determination in the western sahara , which is under serious threat , is held in the conditions stipulated under un authority .
because of the complementarity that actually exists between the interests of the two continents of europe and africa , this vast euro-african entity which necessarily revolves around the mediterranean , our mediterranean policy is invested with an importance , and i might say a seriousness , which unfortunately finds little reflection in the programmes carried out to date by the european institutions and the fact that , as in the case of meda , three quarters of the programmes adopted are still not applied .
this would mean , for example , accepting countries such as morocco , tunisia or algeria into the union as member states in their own right .
pessimism , too , because our transatlantic partner , the united states of america , has fully understood that there is no better way to subject europe to its domination than by cutting the productive links europe may establish with its neighbours around the mediterranean and is striving to erect a vague but effective wall between the two sides of the mediterranean .
all in all , on this matter , as on other matters , it is only the nations that can attempt to take up this great challenge , primarily france , which is still the leading power on the mediterranean coastline , by means of its arab policy and its policy of establishing links throughout the french-speaking world .
i join them in hoping that structural improvements are taking place in the regions concerned .
it will also lead to a more balanced mediterranean policy on the part of the eu .
the concept of partnership implies the articulation not just of european but also of mediterranean thoughts on political and economic cooperation .
we also need to give the management and implementation of the meda programme our attention .
i think that now we must all do everything we can to prove to the people in all the mediterranean countries that we recognise them as equal partners and offer them assistance , both in order to restore their trust in us as well as to solve their economic and social problems .
all this helps to shape the development of the euro-mediterranean partnership and give it direction .
we must contribute to the development of a favourable climate for private investment , with technical assistance support which provides the same kind of support and aid for these third countries as that supplied to the cee countries , the possibility of an interregional and transnational cooperation programme aimed at achieving complementarity and integration between the countries of the mediterranean basin through coordination between the meda and interreg programmes , and the possibility of a new generation of programmes to remedy the current fragmentation and inefficiency of a host of community programmes for the southern mediterranean , which , at a rough count , already involve over seventeen different directorates of the commission and countless microprojects which , in all probability , do not fulfil this purpose .
mr president , i believe that this debate is appropriate at the end of the five-year period for which meda was programmed , but i also believe that we are going to have time to discuss this new regulation , which at the moment is being debated in this house .
i hope that this parliament will support it .
in the few seconds allocated to me , i will simply refer to two aspects which i believe should be dealt with urgently in relation to the meda programmes .
it seems essential to me , since we want an area of free trade and prosperity , and since we also want to push decisively for democratisation in this area in the southern mediterranean , that we support the men and women who are trying to work in this field .
i believe furthermore that the commission must have sufficient human and material resources to do so .
the second issue which concerns me is the inclusion of immigration in the regulation .
mr president , commissioner , mr president-in-office of the council , this is a good day to raise a series of euro-mediterranean considerations , since a series of cultural , social , religious and political events are taking place which cannot pass unnoticed by those of us , looking on from europe , who wish the best for the countries bordering the mediterranean which furthermore , throughout history , have lived alongside certain european countries .
in general , we have seen a common desire on the part of these countries to associate themselves with their neighbours in the north who form part of the european union , since they see us as their sole hope of solving the problems they are facing on a day-to-day basis .
let me draw the attention of our fellow members to these reports which are currently being discussed in committee and which are to be presented before the house in june .
at this juncture , i should like to highlight two important points : firstly , meda is a good programme , a young programme , which has to date suffered from inefficiencies in its implementation .
there is also the definition of a common area of peace and stability , and the concern for rapprochement of peoples by means of a social and cultural partnership .
we therefore request that the council and the commission publish a report annually , or every two years , on human rights in the countries participating in the barcelona process , which could be used as a basis for the implementation of cooperative operations between the european union and third countries .
tunisia , which daniel cohn-bendit has just mentioned , has alone received 10 % of the meda appropriations , almost all of which have been paid .
in the minute i have , let me say that the european union ' s mediterranean policy lacks strategy , and it lacks a timetable and clear objectives in contrast , if you will , to its policy on eastern europe .
the third point is that in my opinion the european union has no autonomy .
mr president , commissioner , i feel that progress in the middle east peace process is crucial to the development of the euro-mediterranean policy , and that this issue is central to the resolution we are debating today .
however , we must ponder the european union ' s role in furthering the peace process .
i therefore support all the points of this report which highlight the need for economic interventions that bolster the development of programmes and the development of private investment and boost the presence of private operators from the european union in the territories which border israel .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the european union ' s professed determination to have an ambitious mediterranean policy is not a new one , at least in terms of the speeches made and the declarations of intent , and our discussions this evening only confirm this .
from lisbon in 1992 to cannes in 1995 , and especially in barcelona that same year , there have always been requests for a strong euro-mediterranean partnership to be established .
the european union and twelve mediterranean countries were consequently pleased to adopt the famous barcelona declaration in 1995 .
this declaration had particularly great ambitions in economic and financial , political and security , social , cultural and human terms .
as others have said before me , however , our partners have felt even more disappointed since this date : with very few association agreements and no agreements actually implemented yet , considerable amounts of european appropriations anticipated , but fewer allocated and still less actually paid , as all our partners keep telling us time and again .
the results of all this are disastrous : the disillusionment of our partners , inadequate economic development , illegal immigration into europe and a general upturn in fundamentalism .
it is therefore necessary , as everyone this evening has said , to relaunch the barcelona process , to simplify its administrative procedures , to agree to open our european markets further and to cancel debts , all this in return for the necessary efforts of our partners in matters of human rights , and all this in the context of an overall mediterranean vision which will have to ensure balance and peace between all the areas which , together , form the euro-mediterranean area .
as a socialist , i therefore support the substance of the proposals included in our joint resolution .
the holy father shows us that the religious aspect of the conflicts cannot be disregarded , and that dialogue between religions is just as much a factor in stability as political dialogue .
firstly , with regard to regional cooperation - and the presidency has just answered this in part - the union bases its mediterranean policy on the barcelona process .
it is reasonable to think that cooperation between the mediterranean states should be much stronger .
the second question concerns the role of the european parliament , and it must be noted that , at present , it is too limited .
it would be necessary either to reconcile the european parliament with the forum , along the lines of the acp-eu joint assembly , or to organise the more active and regular participation of the european parliament in ministerial meetings .
we now have an association agreement with morocco , in force since 2 march , which makes that country a privileged partner .
however , there can be no close cooperation with morocco without dealing with an activity - fishing - on which the economies of many european regions depend .
i would like to mention the fisheries agreement between the european community and morocco , which expired on 30 november last year .
not to renew that agreement would be a backwards step in our mediterranean policy , because if that policy is to be more than empty rhetoric , we must make progress in specific cases .
there are fears about enlargement and there is a feeling that the balance is more in favour of the north and the east and less in favour of the south .
european union actions are still very diffuse and complex in this area .
the barcelona conference corresponds more to political will than to a genuine strategy aimed at creating a real euro-mediterranean area , where economics play an important part , but only one part , in a permanent dialogue and political cooperation in the social and cultural areas and also in the defence of mutual interests in order to guarantee the peace and stability which we all wish to see in this region .
therefore , although this humble mep does not represent a multinational lobby , he asks that the time allocated to his group be respected .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i read the documents we are discussing today with interest and i noticed that parliament ' s request affects a great many sectors , maybe even too many .
now , in my opinion , when you ask for everything - which it is always a good idea to do , just in case - the results are often unspectacular .
it is also important to give new impetus to the meda programmes and at the same time to strengthen programmes such as meda-democracy , euromed-audiovisual , and sub-regional training programmes for journalists .
i think that an important and catalytic role in ensuring the successful outcome of the euro-mediterranean partnership must be played by the mediterranean islands , such as malta , cyprus and crete , as the middle ground between the two sides of the mediterranean .
the debate is closed .
my report , mr president , on the one hand reflects the critical feeling of all the groups with regard to aspects of form and substance in the presentation and preparation of the plans .
we have not been able to examine each one of them individually and we have had to limit ourselves to very general considerations and , on this basis , make proposals which i hope will be taken into account by the commission and the council for these and for future action plans .
mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , the very fact that these action plans are to be implemented is positive in itself .
it is also positive that we have combined action plans in the fields of foreign policy , cooperation and development and in adopting measures to regulate migratory flows .
our basic concern relates to the possible effectiveness of the actions planned for countries such as afghanistan , somalia or iraq , where political instability is combined with constant violations of the most basic human rights .
quite different is the case of morocco , or even albania or sri lanka , where there is a greater likelihood of multi-sectoral cooperation , and there are countries with privileged situations such as morocco , where we have just implemented an association agreement .
we cannot criminalise immigration , whether it is for economic or political reasons .
it should be understood that it is crucial to implement the provisions of the treaty of amsterdam and the tampere summit on the ' communitisation ' of asylum policy and the fair and humanitarian treatment of refugees and immigrants .
as well as economic immigration and cooperation with countries of origin , we should deal with the question of labour market legislation in the member states themselves , the social integration of immigrants and the fight against the mafia-types involved in the trafficking in human beings .
he has already emphasised , and rightly so , that although migration and asylum are closely related issues , they are nevertheless substantially different and require different responses from the european union , although it should be borne in mind and recognised that in both cases there are advantages in applying a cross-pillar and global approach .
we know that increasing numbers of people are seeking better opportunities or protection through migration , in order to escape war , persecution , poverty , unemployment or violations of their human rights .
we know that there is an increase in illegal migratory movement , for the most part controlled by criminal networks that often create situations involving exploitation and blatant violation of human rights .
we obviously support a global approach including support for democratisation and promotion of the rule of law , support for the prevention of conflicts and for reconciliation , respect for human rights and the development within countries and regions of origin and of transit of the fight against poverty , by improving living conditions and by creating greater opportunities for employment .
information campaigns must be undertaken in close cooperation with the countries of origin and of transit , publicising the real opportunities for legal emigration , in an attempt to reduce or eliminate the problem at its source .
in short , we agree with a common european policy on asylum and immigration based on four pillars : partnership with the countries of origin , a common european asylum system , fair treatment of immigrants from third countries and more efficient management of migratory flows .
mr president , i would like firstly to express , on behalf of my group , our unease at this council proposal at a time when , within the union , we are working - and this is shown in the initiatives which the commission has taken and is taking - on the communitisation of what we have called the ' third pillar ' and on the development of an immigration and reception policy for citizens from third countries .
on the one hand , what they say seems reasonable ; it seems reasonable to establish bilateral policies between the european union and some of the countries in which the problem of the exodus of migrants and refugees is greatest ; this seems useful .
this is the case with morocco , for example , with whom we must establish a serious and significant bilateral relationship in order to ensure that the immigration originating from that country remains within the law .
this may also be the case with the balkan countries , where it is clear who our partners are .
on the other hand , however , there are countries on this list whose governments do not even deserve to be described as such , and countries with which i do not think we should speak , such as afghanistan .
we have come to tell you to respect human rights because you are sending us too many refugees . ' this would be absolutely incredible or , at least , very naive .
furthermore , it seems to me that broaching this issue with these countries is difficult and dangerous .
therefore , since we cannot adopt a cross-pillar approach - that is to say , between the third and the first pillar - taking the shortest route , i believe that the council should once again consult this parliament on each and every action plan which is to be set up , in accordance with the provisions of the first pillar .
it is difficult to see how the idea of codevelopment and the idea of working with these countries in order to tackle immigration at source can be compatible with the idea of taking away funds earmarked for cooperation in development , in order to guard external borders .
finally , the development of action plans is on the ' scoreboard ' .
i would like too to pay tribute to the work that the commission has done in this area .
we face a number of challenges in a world where the drive for emigration and the drive for immigration into europe is still substantial .
clearly , we face a situation where there are push factors in countries of origin and pull factors in our own countries .
this report sets out a number of proposals for action which are , in my view , to be welcomed .
mr president , unfortunately the action plans of the high level working group on asylum and migration hardly do justice to the task in hand .
no one would deny that this is an area where countries can gain from mutual collaboration but , of course , there is nothing new about cooperation among our home countries in the asylum field .
since long before the signing of the treaty of rome , the member states of the union have been bound together by a complex web of agreements covering the right of asylum , the treatment of refugees , the principle of non-refoulement and much else .
in my own constituency of south-east england the local police and immigration services long enjoyed excellent relations with their french and belgian counterparts .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , this report highlights the many errors and omissions which the action plans contain .
another error is that questions relating to asylum and those relating to emigration have been dealt with in the same way .
with some countries europe is signing agreements which include readmission clauses authorising the deportation of third country nationals without the political , economic and social situation of the individual or the country being taken into account .
the best solution to reduce the flow of migration is to support development in these countries and support the welfare of these peoples .
in conclusion , would it not be more urgent to harmonise our asylum and migration policies and to establish a genuine community policy on the subject ?
i will speak only about sri lanka , a country i have visited , and a country many of whose citizens have sought refuge in london and other parts of the european union .
the only solution must be a brokered peace .
my colleague , anna terron , has said that this report is naive .
i feel that the report skirts around the real issue and is a diversion from the debate that we ought to be having on sri lanka and the other countries .
the report says that there is no end to the ethnic conflict in sri lanka .
so when the report says , mr president , that we should look for ways to find a political solution to this conflict , i agree .
nothing else will solve the problems or lessen the human rights abuses .
therefore , in view of the security issue and the problem of migration , which has its roots in poor countries which are beset with problems , where individuals , groups and families need to find not only a means for self-expression but also a completely different , secure environment , i feel that it is essential for community policy to be comprehensive . - ( pt ) mr president , the action plans under way in the council ' s high-level working group are , as we all know , an unreliable instrument for jointly tackling a problem which , for some , is merely one of security and for others is merely one of integration , and it is usually impossible to tell where the line between the right to asylum ends and the right to economic survival begins .
the action plans that tampere accepted and stated should continue , in spite of their inability to cope with the complexity of the problem , could nevertheless be improved until the european union can equip itself with an asylum and immigration policy of its own .
i understand that the parliament is taking a cautious approach to these action plans and the commission would like to follow the same line .
on the one hand , the commission is pleased to see that in broad terms the approach of the council in developing these action plans is very much in line with the approach advocated by the commission in its communication on migration of 1994 that enjoyed broad support in this parliament .
implementing these plans will need , as has already been stressed by several members of the house , a combination of very different policies : political cooperation , human rights , rule of law and democracy , commercial , social and development policies , economic assistance need to be fitted together with measures aiming at better management of migration flowing from these countries and regions .
the partnership with the third countries concerned will be always a key element for the success of such a policy with a view to promoting co-development .
i would therefore support your view that we will need to initiate a political dialogue on the implementation of the action plan on an agreed basis of mutual benefit both for member states of the union and for the third countries .
we have to recognise that this political dialogue will have to take into account the very different political situation in each of the five countries .
therefore , i would like to emphasise the important role that non-governmental organisations will have in the implementation of these action plans .
i would very much agree with your observation that the european union should adopt a long-term structural policy to tackle the causes of migration and i therefore agree that the deadlines set in the action plans are rather optimistic .
the action plans , however , can be considered as a first step in creating an external policy on migration of the european union and should therefore be given a chance .
implementation will require close cooperation between the council and its competent bodies , the commission and member states in accordance with their respective responsibilities as defined in the treaty .
the important role member states have to play was , by the way , acknowledged at the justice and home affairs council of last monday , 27 march .
the presidency has called on the member states to turn their political commitments into real activities , a request that the commission has supported .
the commission is , of course , ready to play the active role it is expected to play , especially in areas such as development and economic assistance , human rights , good governance and institution building .
let me assure you anyway that the commission will take its own responsibilities in the development of a common internal european union immigration and asylum policy as foreseen in the conclusions of tampere .
the debate is closed .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we face an enormous challenge with the budget for the year 2001 .
the main priority for the budget 2001 must still be to remain active in the fight against unemployment .
apart from this core initiative for the budget 2001 , we must not allow the quality of economic and political integration achieved in the meantime to eclipse our cultural identity as europeans .
the european parliament also stands by these commitments .
we know that the council also stands by its commitments and , at the donor conference today , the portuguese foreign minister stated , in his capacity as president-in-office of the council , that the council wished to secure lasting stability in the balkans and that efforts would need to be made over several years in order to achieve this .
however , we expect the council to set itself these new challenges and to act accordingly .
gaining the ability to act in this important foreign policy area while , at the same time , losing it in other foreign policy areas as the result of excessive savings is unacceptable .
i must stress the fact that we are not questioning the interinstitutional agreement per se ; we stand by this agreement , but we are calling for a review which takes real account of demands in a specific area , namely the additional cost of assistance for the balkans and certain other foreign policy measures .
we want to support these aspects in the coming budget and concentrate our efforts on these areas .
compared with a total budget of eur 965 million , that does not represent too big a bite out of the cake at our disposal .
i only have to look at the commission ' s work programme , with its 108 codecision procedures , to see that this is a challenge which we did not have to face in the past .
i should like to thank everyone who worked with us on this , especially our own administration , for their correct and very positive preliminary work , and all the honourable members who made it possible for us to present a proper result to plenary despite the limited time available .
we have a persistent and clear need to continue to work towards greening the budget in all areas of policy activity and i want to see further work on this this year .
in particular we want to consider the problems that the treaty of amsterdam presents and the fact that the full financial implications of the treaty of amsterdam are only being realised this year and we have to take account of that .
the committee also wants to reiterate its support for continued financial assistance to ngo participation in much of the technical committee work of the parliament and the commission .
the committee requests that a programme for employment be created , specifically targeting women and , to this end , requests that a budget line be created to finance it , with the fundamental aim of achieving equality between men and women in the workplace , not only by means of measures to protect that equality but also by means of special formulae , which will allow women to integrate fully in the labour market without jeopardising other aspects of their lives .
the committee stresses the importance of the collaboration between those non-governmental organisations and associations , whose activities complement the community action programmes , to achieving the european union ' s aims with regard to equal opportunities between men and women . - ( pt ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the guidelines for the 2001 budgetary procedure as laid down in the haug report are a starting point for a debate on the european union budget for 2001 which promises to be both arduous and heated throughout the year .
going back to the first four paragraphs of the motion for a resolution , which identify the european parliament ' s political priorities , and then those that contain the essence of its position , i would like to highlight the following aspects : appropriate funding is being promoted for the new policies introduced by the treaty of amsterdam as well as for the policies that have been strengthened by the treaty in the fields of internal and external action .
let there be investment , then , in a culture of initiative .
the report restates the need for a sustainable and multiannual contribution to financial aid for the reconstruction of kosovo and for the stabilisation of the balkans as part of a review of the financial perspective .
it rejects such financing if it is to be provided at the expense of existing commitments , either involving external actions or through cuts in the common agricultural policy or other policies .
the drive towards efficiency is especially vital in the context of enlargement .
it is important even at this early stage that we have a clear strategy on how the institutions will respond to the accession of new members .
the institutions cannot respond to enlargement by just adding an extra post here or an office there .
this is especially important in relation to linguistic support .
as everybody here needs to recognise , there are major limitations in relation to resources that will be available as a result of enlargement and there are implications for the financial perspective in relation to category 5 expenditure .
however , these guidelines are not just about enlargement they are about policy direction for all the institutions next year .
to conclude , our group ' s priorities are that these guidelines are budgetary prudence , improving efficiency , more effective budgetary control , better use of resources and general improvements in services and management , so i call upon all the other institutions to take these on and implement these improvements vigorously .
for that reason we support the report insofar as it emphasises the importance of developing this within the framework of structural action .
in a later debate on the budget we wish to draw attention to the matter of sufficient appropriations for science and research and financing the fight against exclusion in all its forms , within the meaning of article 13 of the treaty .
it is only right that the commission , of all the institutions , should serve the interests of europe , although it has to be said that during the negotiations for budget 2000 we saw all too often how one half of the budgetary authority was mainly preoccupied with the national coffers .
mr president , commissioner , i must say that i feel rather uneasy when confronted with this report , especially after the amendments by the committee on budgets .
i hope that , beyond this vote , there will be enough of us to relaunch the initiative in time , in this spirit , and , this time , to hold out until the end .
i would also like to stress from the outset that , if we want to boost employment in the european union , it is of fundamental importance to build on the role of small and medium-sized enterprises for , when all is said and done , they are the hard core of our undertaking in europe .
last year , the european parliament brought the financial ceiling up for discussion at an early stage by seizing on the financing for kosovo and the entire balkans as leverage in our efforts to obtain a review of this ceiling .
so far , only some 30 % of women have access to the internet and high earners have three times more access to the internet than low earners .
we are calling for sustainable financing for civil dialogue and for the non-governmental organisations involved in it , in order to support their important role as the voice of the disadvantaged .
i congratulate you on being able to express yourself in less than the time allotted to you .
in the first year in which the full budgetary procedure comes to fruition , we are all bound to be highly enthusiastic .
they may be the regions in europe which are lagging behind in terms of economic development and which expect much from the solidarity of the european union , namely assistance to help them develop into a balanced system of cohesion within the european union , as far as living and working conditions are concerned .
she has said that we are prepared to work openly with the council and the commission .
in short , amending the financial perspective is not an end in itself , but should only be undertaken , in my view , as an absolute last resort .
mr president , securing the future has always been a difficult issue , irrespective of whether it takes the form of a white paper , deregulation , partnership or structural adjustment .
fighting unemployment through economic growth is the greatest challenge facing europe .
unless these funds are channelled back into the agricultural budget , agenda 2000 will be jeopardised , especially as further technical inconsistencies are to be expected .
mr president , we cannot give our assent to the general economic rationale of the resolution on the budget guidelines for the 2001 budgetary procedure as it now stands .
indeed , we would protest against the veritable misappropriation of funds which is proposed : the inappropriate use of resources reserved for agricultural expenditure under category i of the financial perspective as a source of funding to be used to meet funding requirements in the sphere of foreign policy .
it therefore constitutes an extremely dangerous precedent as far as our farmers are concerned .
this , moreover , is the message clearly expressed by the european council in lisbon , whose conclusions unequivocally refused to incorporate the commission ' s wish to reduce the agricultural budget by eur 300 million in 2001 , and by the same again in 2002 .
we accept it still less in light of the fact that the calculations for the european commission ' s ambitious balkans programme lack both discipline and precision , that the union ' s existing appropriations for kosovo cannot be spent in full and that other donor states are not meeting their financial commitments .
without a constant and intense effort in these fields there will be no competitiveness and a lack of competitiveness means no new jobs will be created .
we have therefore introduced an amendment to cover this .
however , it is not enough simply to give them access to new communication and information technologies .
in any event , the rapporteur has , in our judgement , correctly established the bases which will set the course for section iii of the union ' s budget for 2001 and we are happy to offer her our sincere congratulations on her work .
i make the point , mr president , as i did yesterday in the budgets committee , in the twelve years of the financial perspective there have been 38 revisions totalling over eur 7 000 billion of monies that have been involved in those revisions .
mr president , i congratulate both rapporteurs on their reports , which have received a high degree of consensus .
the rapporteur , mrs haug , has reached broad areas of compromise in her report , which we hope will be respected in the vote , and which we hope will strengthen parliament ' s commitment with regard to employment , culture , the new amsterdam policies and , no less importantly , the budgetary obligations and rights .
this house voted by a majority for a financial perspective which respected the political balances of berlin , even when we were all aware of its shortcomings in the face of unexpected external events .
if we have to finance new policies , we have to find new funding .
if the council intends to finance actions in the balkans at the expense of current external or agricultural policies , it would not only be showing a lack of political vision but it would also be failing in the commitments it has signed up to .
if we have a budgetary procedure , can we then establish if the main priority which we have now set at european level has been achieved , and where new jobs are being created or where new jobs are being destroyed ?
commissioner byrne quite rightly said that , as far as he was concerned , public health took priority .
then it was said that environmental protection took priority .
mr president , i want to thank the rapporteurs for their work and say that they have found a decent consensus and produced good reports .
if there are to be problems - and sometimes there are problems - it will be around this whole question of the proposal to finance the shortfall in category 4 with money from the agricultural section of the budget .
this proposal is more likely to create psychological problems throughout the european union in rural areas than real problems .
we need a little bit more clarity and there is tension building up between the institutions on this question of the balkans .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , to reflect the priorities of european policy in the budget of the european union , that is the objective of this highly premature debate on the budget 2001 .
the report suggests that the other institutions will also gradually follow this lead .
mr ferber , you referred in your report to other problems which need to be resolved .
as far as the commission ' s priorities are concerned , i should like to point out that the commission conducted the priorities debate at its meeting on 23 february where it came to the conclusion that particular account should be taken in the budget 2001 of the stronger foreign policy commitments of the european union and of the important objectives of promoting rural development and supporting the transition to an information society .
you demanded this of the commission and the council in your resolution of 16 december .
according to the financial perspective , compared with the budget 2000 , an increase of eur 3.1 billion for agricultural market expenditure would be possible from a purely theoretical point of view , according to the figures .
the commission proposal makes provision for a further increase of eur 2.8 billion for agricultural market expenditure .
i hope that this will also be supported by the budgetary authority because i think that this rural development programme offers a great deal of scope for promoting new endeavours in agricultural policy .
i think this move would seriously improve the transparency of the budget and i hope that the council will not stand by its initial rejection of this suggestion .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
the motion for a resolution which has been tabled takes account of this fact .
the worrying increase in the number of cases of sexual exploitation of children shows that the european union and its member states need to use every means at their disposal in order to protect the weakest members of our society , i.e .
each of us knows of cases of child abuse in our own country .
the european parliament flatly rejects this regulation on possible exceptions .
the member states must be proactive in opposing anything which encourages or plays down child sex tourism .
respect for the rights of the child must be anchored in the european treaties if we are to guarantee protection for children in principle .
all the points which it has now been decided should be regulated and taken into account in the future within the european union must be given the same consideration in accession negotiations , in relations with third countries and , most importantly , when deciding how development cooperation funds should be deployed .
this applies not only to our children but to all children .
i should therefore like to thank all my fellow members , especially those from the other committees involved , whose positions have been worked into my report .
child sex tourism is a tragic and distressing fact of life and this problem has become worse and more serious in certain regions of the world over recent years .
it is important to clarify the legal situation and to dispense with the notion of dual criminality .
we need a common approach in the european union and in the member states , in cooperation with the third countries in question .
children as persons with their own , inviolable rights deserve our special protection , irrespective of the country in which they live .
this protection must be guaranteed in both theory and practice .
in all the member states of the european union , the necessary legislative measures must be taken and the laws harmonised in order to guarantee the protection of children .
it is not only excellent in quality but also extremely useful .
indeed , the united nations convention of 20 november 1989 granted them specific rights and all our actions should take their inspiration from recognition of these rights .
secondly , this report makes a contribution to police and judicial cooperation in the european union .
i therefore support amendment no 4 calling for a european centre for missing children and victims of sexual abuse to be set up in order to coordinate the activities of the organisations set up in the member states .
it must be noted that the proposals made have only been implemented in part .
it is all very well to discuss the problem in the third world , but i believe , as previous speakers have said , that there are also major problems within the european union , and i have just learnt that the group of the party of european socialists has requested a separate vote on the important sections of this report .
these are extremely serious matters , involving high-ranking personalities , but it is all still perfectly concealed , completely outside the scope of the justice system .
we therefore urgently need an integrated and cohesive community policy on children and it is really sad - as others too have said - that the treaty of amsterdam does not provide the necessary legal base .
we should look towards the good example set by sweden .
mr president , in november 1996 , the european commission adopted its first communication on combating child sex tourism .
a year later , in november 1997 , a european parliament resolution and a council statement on ' tourism ' revealed the general consensus among the institutions on the broad lines of the commission communication .
since then , this support has been implemented in practical terms by the setting up of a new budget line , with the funds made available intended for campaigns to raise awareness , within the european union , and to combat the development of child sex tourism .
it has since been expressed in the council conclusions of 21 december 1999 , which display a new firm political commitment to resolving this significant social problem , which we are pledged to do .
at the same time , further progress in this direction will contribute to our response to the concerns expressed by european citizens at the development of this scourge .
you will have noted that community measures combating child sex tourism is progressing at a sustained rate along the lines of the strategy initially agreed , aiming , on the one hand , to reduce demand , particularly by means of cooperation with the tourist industry and the relevant ngos , and , on the other hand , to tackle the sources of supply in tourist destination countries by any appropriate means , including community policies for external relations and development cooperation .
the importance of this second aspect was , moreover , highlighted by the commission as early as 1998 when the support strategy for the development of sustainable tourism in developing countries was defined , which stipulated that the problem of child sex tourism should be taken into specific consideration as the subject of structured political dialogue with the countries most affected , particularly at regional level .
the development of child sex tourism flies in the face of the very idea of a human community united on the basis of ideals such as respect and dignity , and public welfare and remembrance .
the council joint action of 24 february 1997 on combating the trade in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children , stipulating that each member state should undertake to review its own national legislation on measures relating to types of deliberate behaviour , is exemplary in this regard .
other commission initiatives in the context of the increased involvement of the tourist industry have also had practical results , particularly in terms of drawing up and strengthening codes of conduct and other self-regulatory mechanisms in the tourist industry .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
it is on the very important subject of product liability on which the european community first introduced legislation as long ago as 1985 in the form of a directive .
this was transposed in a somewhat leisurely way , and in some cases we might even say in a shockingly slow way , by member states .
this legislation substitutes distributive justice , in a sense , for corrective justice in this very important area of the law of civil liability .
the green paper raised the question of whether this scheme should be extended and whether some changes should be made .
this was in response to debates in parliament last year , which led to the amendment of the directive to include primary agricultural products .
mr president , yesterday , ladies and gentlemen , an american court awarded the nicotine victim leslie whiteley compensation of no less than usd 44 million .
we want a liability law which promotes innovation and does not conceal incalculable liability risks for companies launching new products .
i should just like to make a few more comments on behalf of my group on a number of necessary amendments on which both we and the group of the european liberal democrat and reform party reached extensive agreement in the run-up .
my group believes the commission should check if prima facie evidence and circumstantial evidence can also be taken into account at all levels at which evidence is taken .
however , it is not only these individual points which are important ; we also need to seize every opportunity to harmonise product liability still further in the form of comprehensive consumer protection in the european union .
if we supplement the maccormick report in this direction , the european parliament will have done a good job in the eyes of the consumer .
mr president , i would like to welcome what is a very well considered report , which invites us to stand back and take stock before embarking on further legislation in this field - a refreshing welcome from the tendency of this house sometimes to rush , or to be pushed to rush , at complex legislation .
in our enthusiasm we sometimes forget what a sensitive subject the harmonisation of private law is ; it touches the national legal traditions in our member states , legal traditions born of our differing histories and cultures of separate nations and jurisdictions .
the traditional push towards harmonisation has been the internal market to which we can now add the aspirations of tampere for a single area of european justice .
but harmonisation must respect subsidiarity - we have no need to rush towards uniformity of civil law in this area of product liability .
i would argue quite strongly that we have achieved a very fair and reasonable balance of interests .
if our regulations on product liability stifle competitiveness and innovation , i suggest that consumers will be at a major disadvantage as well .
so let me echo mr maccormick : there is a need for much more clearly-based factual evidence before we make changes to this legislation .
this green paper represents a first step towards this review .
the second principle consists of removing the burden of proof from the party that has suffered the damage .
the third principle concerns setting levels of compensation .
the directive does provide for this eventuality , but we must bear in mind the fact that judicial bodies are used to seeing this setting of compensation as interference by legislative authority in its duties and this issue must therefore also be reviewed .
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur , mr maccormick , for the report he has produced and the work he has done .
at the time , the commission put forward a proposal to the effect that the principle of risk liability for defective products , which is provided for in directive 85 / 374 , should also be applied to primary agricultural products and products of hunting .
on 29 july last year , the commission gave its blessing to the current green paper on liability for defective products .
in an important section of the green paper , all interested parties are invited to make a firm case for their stance on the need for revision .
in any case , it is clear that these subjects will all need to be addressed in a report that the commission intends to compile towards the end of this year .
i undertake to do so on behalf of the commission , but this must be in concert with parliament of course , and with the other interested parties , because as an entity , the commission is , of course , dependent on the views expressed by society and by this house .
the debate is closed .
i think we must place this report , and also the directive which is in the pipeline , in the context of the european union ' s energy policy with its three objectives of competitive pricing , security of supply and environmental protection .
since 29 february 2000 , we have had a common electricity market but , regrettably , still with considerable distortions of competition which still , unfortunately , work to the disadvantage of both renewable energy cogeneration and energy management and the forms of energy of the future .
the directive which is currently being prepared should , in my opinion , have two objectives .
firstly , the current imperfect market must be adjusted as necessary in order to protect the still tender shoots of the plant which is renewable energy , and also to lay the foundations for renewable energies so that they head in the direction that they need to before the year 2030 or 2040 , when they must be capable of providing the greater part of the european community energy mix .
we have many reasons to move in this direction .
firstly , the protection of the environment , but also the creation of jobs .
it must have ambitious , clearly defined objectives at european level in the order of those given in the commission white paper , i.e. 12 % for energy and 23 % for electricity .
after setting these objectives at the european level , there must be ' burden sharing ' negotiations between the commission and the member states in order for reciprocal agreement to be reached on the specific national objectives which , when added together , will combine to form the european objective .
on the other hand , there are the trading systems which have just been created in the netherlands and denmark , where there are still many administrative and technical problems to resolve .
there is one last point which i wish to put forward , namely the need for a system for labelling and providing information on all forms of electricity .
in an internal market , the consumer should be informed , and this information should be provided for every form of energy , not just green electricity .
fourthly , we must bear in mind that sources of fossil fuels have been accompanied recently by price fluctuations ranging from 10 to 30 dollars a barrel .
mr president , madam vice-president , ladies and gentlemen , parliament has basically been in agreement on this question since 1996 .
for example , elevating the feed-in system to a universal panacea is wrong .
we here in the european union cannot impose mandatory obligations on the member states .
mr president , i would like to reiterate the thanks to the rapporteur for the extremely cooperative manner in which he has embarked upon this important report and i am pleased to participate in the intimate gathering of renewable fanatics so late at night .
that requires , above and beyond everything else , downward pressure on the unacceptably high and legally dubious levels of subsidies which continue to flow to fossil energy sources in the european union , notably , but not excusably , the coal industry in a number of large member states .
we cannot be serious about this without trying to add teeth in some form , moral , financial or otherwise to the concept of targets .
paragraph 22 of this report calls for the establishment of a european sustainable energy agency .
this parliament and the european institutions have been spawning a blizzard of new agencies all over the european union .
mr president , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his hard work and particularly the excellent definition of renewables .
the directive , as some of the speakers have already said , needs to have binding targets in order for the member states and the entire eu to achieve a significant increase in the share of renewable energies in the total energy market .
the directive should also contain mechanisms to discourage , as we have already heard , the member states from their market distorting subsidies to traditional forms of energy , particularly fossil fuels and nuclear .
the directive should explicitly propose a system of support and advantages for the small and medium-sized companies in decentralised production and distribution of renewable energies .
finally , i would urge that it is important that some of the undertakings by member states to include renewables in the energy mix in the electricity sector be at least equal to the total eu commitment made in the white paper on renewable energy , as endorsed by the council and this parliament .
if we are serious about this , we must be prepared to make funds available for research and development in this area , both at national and european levels .
the creation of an internal market in electricity should provide consumers of electricity with real choice .
the introduction of an element of competition in any industry should lead to more favourable pricing for the consumer .
while it is desirable to create a level playing field it may also be necessary to provide subsidies for certain types of energy in order to promote other objectives .
clearly the development of renewables is linked to environmental objectives as well as issues of employment , regional development and the promotion of local initiatives .
i would like to see the development of small local initiatives which would strengthen rural development by the provision of , say , 20 to 30 jobs per project .
such projects should not only be open to the business sector and local groups such as small locally-based co-ops should be assisted in creating such local enterprises .
this report states that support for renewable energy projects must not be viewed as a straightforward subsidy under the state aid rules .
it is clear that there are serious distortions in the energy market with many hidden subsidies to both coal and oil generated energy .
we still face a significant challenge in meeting our commitments on limiting greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector under the kyoto protocol while , at the same time , promoting growth within our economies .
i believe that , while each member state must work towards the 12 % target of renewables , the imposition of a single binding target would not be helpful because of the great differences in the structure of the energy market between member states .
peat power plants work very well indeed in my country and make an important contribution to ireland ' s energy supply .
therefore , i regret to say that my final vote on this project will be seriously affected .
mr president , the need to promote the development of sources of renewable energy becomes a crucial matter every time that issues such as the kyoto protocol and meeting our commitments to reducing greenhouse gas emissions are raised or when we talk about sustainability in energy policy .
secondly , any support mechanism that is considered must be realistic and consistent , but must , above all , fit into a stable and appropriate legal framework if it is to achieve the desired effect .
in order for any action related to the development of new projects for investment in these technologies to be launched , it will require a legal basis which will ensure that the laws on which it is based are transparent .
its content provides the necessary balance for us to be able to rate it positively , but our final position will depend on the outcome with regard to certain key points .
mr president , i have an interest , though not a financial one , in this subject in that i am chairman of the northern energy initiative , a company which operates in the north-east of england , and has within it a renewable energy agency whose objective is to promote the development of renewable energies .
it is important to have eu and national targets , but it is also important to have a european directive which will support efforts at local and regional level , where many of the decisions are actually taken .
support for demonstration projects should be included in any directive .
the report does contain many good ideas .
mr president , i would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on being open to dialogue on all areas connected to the report and to the amendments .
i would finally like to mention the establishment of an appropriate legal framework for this kind of energy , which would foster its rapid development , bearing in mind that , in the long term , renewables must become predominant .
i also think that research and development in this area need greater support .
i think that this management system is particularly significant for the future of energy supplies in europe .
i would like to remind you that in april last year the commission approved a working paper on electricity from renewable sources , whose main objective was to present a thorough overview of the support programmes of the different member states in the field of renewable energies , as well as to highlight certain conclusions and possible options for the adoption of community measures in this area .
in this respect , parliament ' s contribution is an extremely important element in this process .
this house has always been forthright in its support for active policies designed to promote renewable energies .
some aspects are more open to debate , but they also deserve thorough study , even if they must be rejected , in some cases because they are not sufficiently based on fact or because the problems they present are greater than the solutions they propose .
i agree with mr turmes on the need to protect the different national systems in force at the time that this directive is adopted .
this is what we will do , which does not mean that , in five years time , there should not be a review of the different systems and that we should not commit ourselves to those which have proved to be the most effective and which have resulted in greater development of renewable energies in those countries .
in any event , as you know , on 2 december 1999 , in the energy council , i gave a questionnaire to the member states , so i could see what stage we had reached , what stage the issue had reached , and so i could present a directive that could obtain sufficient consensus to quickly conclude its passage through both parliament and the council .
the result of this questionnaire , which has been studied by the services , is a document , in my opinion , of extremely high quality , which i hope will enable us to get through the parliamentary and council procedures reasonably quickly .
my personal view - although there are other ideas on this subject - is that , as things stand , we cannot write off other energies , for reasons of competitiveness and growth .
in this respect , we must be able to ensure that those who do commit themselves to renewables have a fair return on their investments .
we obviously have to create a stable framework that will enable investors to make investments which require a sufficient number of years to cover their repayment .
mr president , i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the speakers , and to assure them that this element of stability , which will enable decisions relating to medium-term investments to be taken , will also feature in the proposal for a directive that i hope to be able to present to you soon .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. ( the sitting was closed at 11.10 p.m. )
i want to stress two points .
on the contrary , i have stated time and again in this house that enlargement is an historic necessity .
thank you , mr berthu .
i think it would be very welcome if you , as president of the european parliament , were to approach the turkish government , in whatever way you consider appropriate , and ask for this man of honour to be freed .
the " echelon " system the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the existence of an artificial intelligence system allowing the united states of america to intercept and monitor all telephone and electronic communications within the european union , a system called ' echelon ' .
the european union must respect the fundamental rights which are guaranteed by the european convention on human rights and which result from the common constitutional traditions of the member states on general principles of community law .
this is why the council presidency wants to firmly state its position on the possible existence of a system for intercepting telecommunications in the european union , beyond the bounds of any legal framework .
in 1999 , the council submitted an initiative on the lawful interception of telecommunications with regard to new technologies for assessment .
in its meeting on 28 may 1998 , the council adopted conclusions on encryption and law enforcement to guarantee the integrity and confidentiality of digital communications which present considerable advantages for electronic commerce and the private lives of individuals and which can also help to prevent fraud and other crimes .
in the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters , particular attention should be paid to the draft convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the member states .
the justice and home affairs council , in its meeting on 27 march , examined the most important remaining questions , including those on the interception of telecommunications .
therefore , any supervision of data protection is carried out in the member state of origin with full respect for the council of europe convention of january 1981 and the recommendation of the committee of ministers of the council of europe of september 1987 .
so it is the responsibility of each member state to correct , delete or amend data sent to europol where it becomes apparent that this data is incorrect or infringes the rules established in this respect .
the member states and the commission are examining this issue in order to determine to what extent data protection should be provided in a horizontal perspective for the whole of the third pillar .
this , briefly , is the council ' s position on the work in progress or already concluded in the area of the lawful interception of telecommunications .
the presidency wishes to stress that it is ready to closely monitor parliament ' s work in this area as it considers that there is every reason not to compromise when principles of freedom , democracy and respect for human rights and the fundamental freedoms of individuals are at stake .
respect for human rights and the rule of law constitute the foundations of the european union .
national security questions belong to the exclusive competence of the member states .
electronic communications play an increasingly important role in everyday life of european citizens .
a key tool to secure the confidentiality of electronic communications is encryption or cryptography .
when the european parliament considered the issue of interception of telecommunications in 1998 , its resolution underlined the importance of encryption .
the european research efforts and relatively open access to markets have created conditions that have enabled european enterprises to develop a world-class expertise and high-quality encryption products .
it is worth noting that the united states government has recently taken steps to relax its export controls regime for encryption products .
for external trade , the wassenaar arrangement imposes export controls on strong encryption products .
the commission recognises the need to balance availability of encryption products with concerns of public security and the fight against crime .
the commission considers that enhancing the security of communications over the internet by using encryption is a priority .
the data protection directive of 24 october 1995 requires member states to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons and in particular their right to privacy with respect to the processing of personal data .
the data protection directive is complemented by the directive for data protection and privacy in the telecommunications sector .
this wording of the directive reflects the wording of article 8 of the european convention on human rights .
as regards the general data protection directive , the commission has launched infringement procedures against six member states .
further , the letter states that the european commission of human rights has held that the system set out under british law is in conformity with the european convention on human rights .
the uk legislation also foresees a special parliamentary oversight committee .
the commission has also sought clarification from the united states government .
madam president , first of all , i am delighted that the council and the commission have delivered a clear opinion today regarding the echelon problem .
in addition to frank words with our american and british friends , we need a european encryption system , independent of the united states , with which to protect our data .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , we are in a difficult situation regarding the decision which we now have to make after hearing the council and the commission .
because if that was to be the case - and i agree with the commissioner here - then of course this would be in flagrant contravention of the excellent alliance and trade relations that europe has with america .
nevertheless , the eldr group believes that this matter must be taken seriously .
because if it is true , then citizens ' rights may be violated too .
in any case , the eldr group wants to extend existing european legislation governing data protection to the sphere of judicial and police cooperation .
we also feel that the national parliaments in the european union , as well as the united states congress in washington , should become involved in this matter .
we have since discovered that this system does exist , but we do not know exactly how it works .
especially when we know that certain member states are probably collaborating in order to by-pass them .
otherwise the network should be closed down , and we are in favour of the parliamentary committee of inquiry called for by several groups in the european parliament , including the union for a europe of nations group .
madam president , the new economy has equipped us with a worldwide communication network .
the right of individuals to privacy must not be contravened at the drop of a hat .
madam president , so the country of the statue of liberty , jefferson , lincoln , and human rights is listening in on all world communications by cable , satellite , telephone , fax , e-mail or mobile phone !
i have several questions to put to the council and the commission and if they do not wish to answer them today , then i would ask them to do so in writing in the very near future .
it emerged during the hearing that two companies have reported missing out on orders on account of industrial espionage .
my third question relates to article 3 .
as a uk member of this parliament i understand other members ' concerns .
the commissioner has spoken of work on cryptography , which was also mentioned in parliament ' s last recommendation .
therefore , at the next justice and home affairs council on 29 to 30 may , the portuguese presidency will ensure that the council debates this issue so that we can adopt a position .
for that reason we contacted the united states government and asked for clarification and what i said here was their reply to that very issue .
after the granting of this patent , a number of concerns have been raised , both here in parliament and also by organisations such as greenpeace , about the true scope of this patent .
the european patent office has issued a press statement to that effect .
the motion before you calls on parliament itself and the other institutions of the european union formally to oppose this patent within the 9-month period during which an opposition is allowed under the rules governing the granting of european patents .
however , if the european patent office follows its usual rules for oppositions then this is unlikely to bring any changes to this patent before december 2000 and perhaps even later than that .
i have therefore written to the european patent office in munich requesting that it should explore every possibility to bring about a speedier resolution of this issue .
the event shows how important it was for the european parliament , in debating the directive on the patenting of biotechnological inventions , to have made it a cornerstone of the directive that there can be no question of patenting techniques for cloning human beings and for manipulating human genetic material , still less of patenting the human being in all phases of his development .
the european patent office has incorporated the european union ' s directive into its own directives .
then , there was a press statement from europabio , which was not very helpful in this regard and , following which , i wrote a letter to the chairman of europabio pointing out that such an ambivalent position on the patent involved was not at all helpful in furthering people ' s understanding of biotechnology .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , european patent no ep 69 53 51 , granted by the european parliament and concerning the genetic manipulation of human cells and human embryos has triggered understandable feelings of horror among the public .
in this way , the european parliament is confronted with a special task requiring the preparation of an annual report on the work of the european group on ethics in science and new technologies .
finally , it must be made unequivocally clear once and for all that our directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions excludes not only the patentability of the human being , of parts of the human genetic make-up and of interference with the genome , but also forbids the cloning of human beings at all phases of their development .
mr president , commissioner , the european parliament is right to be concerned , and this is surely an understatement , by the fact that the european patent office has granted a patent to the university of edinburgh .
however , the european parliament has already clearly formulated its position on this delicate matter .
the outcome is a balanced text that affords science the opportunity to make progress , but in the interests and service of humanity .
a number of items are unequivocally excluded from patenting in this directive , such as the human body , for example , or parts thereof at all stages of development , as per article 3 , and the cloning of human beings , as per article 9 .
it is for these reasons that not only will the eldr group endorse the motion , it will also support amendments nos 1 , 3 , 6 , 8 and 9 , because they clearly reinforce the message conveyed by the directive in question .
this also means , however , that we need to investigate the patenting of parts of the human genetic make-up and of genes themselves , which is also made possible by the directive on patenting .
i would also have expected more from the commission today in terms of more criticism and also of more questions about the background to the directive on patenting which also virtually legitimises past practice on the part of the patent office .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , our group supports the joint resolution on the offending decision by the european patent office .
but the english wording of the patent undermines that explanation because article 11 explicitly mentions that the term ' animal ' includes all animal cells , especially of mammalian species , including human cells .
each person is unique ; there is something sacred in each human being .
the commission takes the view that had the directive on patenting biotechnological inventions been transposed in good time , this error could have been avoided .
the european group of ethics must also investigate if it actually affords human dignity adequate protection .
the council should give the commission the mandate to do this .
they have no interest in cloning humans : rather what they are interested in is being able to work on human tissue to help find remedies for , for example , alzheimer ' s disease and leukaemia and what they are doing breaks no law in the united kingdom .
as i have said earlier this morning , i wrote a letter on behalf of the commission to the european patent office .
mr blokland has said that the directive is unclear and inconsistent and certainly the commission will be very interested in a substantiated view of that statement .
the last issue i should like to deal with is the matter of the community patent .
mr bolkestein , i am very sorry if you have not been listening very carefully or if the translation was not very precise , but i have not put forward a demand that cloning should be prohibited .
it was the intention of the european people ' s party not to open a new debate but merely to re-confirm what parliament had already decided recently , for example in the context of the fifth framework programme on research or in that of the tannert report on the specific framework programme on research .
there are approximately 120 million elderly people in europe , most of whom receive a pension , although there are a few , less fortunate people who do not , but these guidelines make no provision whatsoever for a european union policy for pensioners and the elderly .
instead , " the social and cultural dimension of europe " is chosen as the most important point to be taken up in the guidelines for the 2001 budget .
our group likewise condemns the desire expressed by the alliance of the large socialist , christian democrat and conservative groups in the european parliament to use agriculture , the appropriations under heading 1 of the financial perspective , as a source of financing for areas now falling within the remit of european union ' foreign policy ' .
in fact everyone now agrees in acknowledging that the eur 360 million sought for kosovo for the year 2000 represents a sum , a godsend for some people , that this region of former yugoslavia , with ever-growing centrifugal forces at work , is in no position to assimilate .
the union for a europe of nations group is equally opposed , out of concern for consistency , to any annual financing of the eur 5.5 billion sought for the balkans by increasing the ceiling on external expenditure by europe and lowering the ceilings for the agricultural headings , on the deceitful pretext that the appropriations would not be taken from agriculture , but that it would be appropriate to release margins for 2001 and 2002 .
it should be remembered here that , in 2003 , the mid-term analysis planned at the berlin summit in the context of agenda 2000 will be known .
the civil aviation industry is experiencing annual growth of some 6 % and this is expected to double in 10 years !
this has to be accompanied by a progressive reduction in noise ascribable to aircraft .
stricter rules on aircraft noise must be established at international level , within the icao .
the united states ' position on the regulation is ambiguous ; in fact , although the united states government is in favour of ending the litigation , american manufacturers are totally against the standards set out in the regulation which would penalise them .
in conclusion , the european union must do everything possible to encourage the development of that regional integration which , in the long term , will maintain privileged links , still to be defined , with the european union .
in fact , the latter must take action to achieve a cultural , social and human partnership .
the european union must provide compensation for the crucial difficulties in this sector , notably as regards fruit and vegetables , and wine-growing .
hernandez mollar report ( a5-0057 / 2000 ) mr president , the action plans on asylum and migration , focusing on the problems encountered by the countries of origin and transit of asylum seekers and migrants , seem to us an excellent initiative in principle .
so the action plans aim to draw up a list of problems for each target country , whether they be related to the political institutions , human rights , the economy or the government , and propose an integrated approach to the countries of the union and to third countries , combining development aid , legal measures or foreign policy actions .
mr president , i voted against the hernandez mollar report on asylum seekers and migrants , not because i am opposed to an action plan for receiving and supporting those who are less fortunate than ourselves and who are forced to emigrate and request asylum from countries near or far - for i am strongly in favour of such a measure - but because this report does not place sufficient emphasis on the procedures for distinguishing between genuine and false asylum seekers , for the latter are , sadly , nothing but disruptive elements who damage those who have a genuine , practical need for asylum and assistance , and who must therefore receive it .
i abstained on the final vote on this report on the basis of my speech on wednesday evening .
i am not in any way against the intentions or sentiments of the report but solely in respect of the action plan on sri lanka .
i believe that it is inadequate and that there is far too little attention paid to the need to seek a political solution in sri lanka .
and what price the subtle distinctions in the report between ' immigration ' and ' asylum proper ' , when social reality means that a surreal economic organisation condemns millions of people to torture or death by hunger as surely as in dictators ' dungeons ?
europe is drawing up plans and developing measures , 108 to be precise , with unspecified funding of course .
italy , for example , will lose 17 million people from the workforce between now and 2050 , and you are happy to conclude , along with the un population division , that 159 million non-europeans will have to be imported between now and 2050 .
klamt report ( a5-0052 / 2000 ) mr president , we have naturally supported mrs klamt ' s report because of our desire and our duty to protect our children and everyone else in an extremely vulnerable position .
the report is also a good text in that respect .
the klamt report is perhaps not sufficiently ambitious , but at least it has the merit of going in the right direction .
mr president , i voted for the klamt report , not only because i am in favour of any measure which contributes to eliminating child sex tourism , but also because i want to provide encouragement for more to be done .
the european commission has drawn up a report of the measures which have been taken in this field .
in view of the results , it is clear that the european union and its member states must increase their efforts to combat sex tourism and the exploitation of children .
the fact is , when people are in a foreign country , in an unfamiliar region , they can act in complete anonymity and convince themselves that child abuse is less reprehensible in a different social and cultural context , and that the moral principles in force in their own country do not apply .
this is why parliament calls on the commission to assess the link between child pornography on the internet and the growth in sex tourism , and to propose practical measures against the phenomenon !
in fact , this comes down to accepting the phenomenon of child sex tourism , on the pretext that the social and cultural context is different in countries where it is not unusual to work as a little slave from the age of five .
mrs klamt has presented a good report today .
the dignity of the individual , of the weakest in particular and of all in general , must be our guideline , in this area as in any other . - i wholeheartedly support ewa klamt ' s report on the fight against child exploitation .
mr president , i am not calling for a nanny-state approach , but simply that , in a civilised society , we recognise the right of children to their childhood .
turmes report ( a5-0078 / 2000 ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , environmental protection is a prestigious field of politics , and rightly so .
resolution on the cloning of human beings mr president , we agreed with many points in the motion for a resolution , for example with the proposal that the european parliament should submit a complaint to the patent office , but also with the criticism of the structures of the european patent office .
our vote against human cloning is primarily intended to express our lack of confidence in the present economic and social organisation , certainly not our rejection of science and its possibilities .
we are not in principle opposed to intervention in the human germline for people who want to have children without risking malformation , any more than we are opposed to cloning with a view to developing human tissues intended for grafting .
this is what the edinburgh research is about . - ( sv ) on 8 december 1999 , the european patent office approved ' by mistake ' patent no ep 69 53 51 concerning the genetic manipulation of human cells and embryos .
the patent office has acknowledged a ' linguistic ' mistake which does not seem to be entirely corroborated by article 11 of the description of the intervention .
a mistake like that becomes symbolic , a sort of freudian slip , and it has impelled us today to hold this fundamental debate on cloning , certainly , but above all on whether the living organism should be patented .
categories of ' forbidden knowledge ' must certainly be created but without making the mistake of those who condemned copernicus , harvey ( the heart is not the repository of the soul , but a large organ ) , or jenner ( the smallpox vaccine ) .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 30 march 2000 .
nothing has been done although there was an instant reaction from the commission when the fact that 12 million people are under threat of famine in ethiopia came to public attention .
i have been in this house since 1984 , and rarely have i seen such neglect - such wilful neglect - by the european union in dealing with a famine of this kind that we knew was on our doorstep .
it is a great shame that every time an issue like this is raised with commissioner nielson , or raised with the commission , he passes it off as if it did not matter - as if he did not believe this was happening .
commissioner nielson must come to this house and explain his use of pr men and spin doctors in this disgraceful display of neglect .
mr andrews , there is of course no need to start a debate on the subject .
i should just like to point out that in a few moments the house will be voting on whether to add another item to the ' human rights ' section and one of the proposals made by two groups is specifically to do with the problem of the famine in ethiopia .
madam president , as many of us know , last friday saw the inauguration in vienna of the monitoring centre for racism , xenophobia and antisemitism .
some members of staff of the european parliament both here and in brussels , when they try to enforce european parliament rules - in other words , no smoking in no-smoking areas or any of the other european parliament rules - are sworn at and abused by some members of parliament .
thank you , mr seppanen .
madam president , at least three times i went searching for our finnish colleague to assure him , as i was assured in the last plenary part-session , that he would be handed a card that would enable him to not just hear , but to see finnish television in parliament .
in the college of quaestors we have also discussed - because we too are concerned - robberies that are taking place within parliament .
thank you , mrs banotti .
our plans , therefore , remain unchanged , and this means that if , on friday , the necessary 209 members are not present , then the vote will not take place .
thank you , mr miller .
mr van velzen , you will have the opportunity to make your comments in just a moment , as we are about to move on to the agenda .
agenda the next item is the examination of the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the conference of presidents pursuant to rule 110 of the rules of procedure .
sittings in strasbourg from 10 to 14 april 2000 : relating to tuesday : the council has informed us that it did not wish to make a statement on iraq at the present time .
this being the case , i had a request from the group of the party of european socialists to bring forward the council and commission statements on the turkish situation , which are currently scheduled for wednesday 12 april .
mr van velzen , the council is indeed in attendance on wednesday , i am assured .
we shall then be able to withdraw our proposal under item i .
in other words , mr haarder , you would like us to move directly to the proposal to replace item iv ' world forum on education ' with an item on ' iraq ' , which you tabled in case your first proposal was not adopted .
madam president , i should be glad if we could vote on item iv before i decide about that .
madam president , since we now have ethiopia , which we wanted to add , elsewhere on the agenda , i would like to ask the mover of the motion whether he would agree to adding zimbabwe as a fifth point .
i then received five proposals to add a fifth sub-item to the ' human rights ' section .
madam president , i would like to be clear that if we have agreed that zimbabwe would be the fifth point then there is no point in voting in any other points because we already have five points on the agenda .
mr elles , first of all , i am going to suggest that we enter zimbabwe as the fifth sub-item in the ' human rights ' section , since i believe that is in line with what we have just agreed .
madam president , i would like to speak in favour of adopting a resolution in connection with the oral question to the commission on the consequences of last december ' s storms .
do you mean after the oral question on the storms ?
madam president , in 1996 i had the great honour of representing the uk government at the world congress , which was held in stockholm , sweden , under united nations auspices , on the subject of the sexual exploitation of children .
in our report we have entered a definition which we hope will be acceptable internationally .
we can only deal with this matter if we deal with it in an international fashion .
we are faced with a difficult task , not only in regard to the definition which we have decided to offer , but also because so many countries have different attitudes as to what , for instance , is a child .
i wish to offer my thanks , as rapporteur , to all those who have been concerned , not only on my own committee - the committee on citizen 's freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs - but also on the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and on the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport as well .
in my own committee this report was adopted with 27 votes in favour and one abstention .
the initiative of the republic of austria with a view to adopting a council decision to combat child pornography on the internet will place an obligation on the member states , and obligation is the crucial word here , to take measures to combat child pornography on the internet .
parents are powerless in the face of this phenomenon because they cannot keep up with this technological progress .
we must not , therefore , simply act in a preventative fashion ; we must offer long-term help to those children affected . - ( pt ) madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the need has grown over the last ten years for a policy for children , based on the 1989 united nations convention on the rights of the child , which has been ratified by all member states .
the attention that has been paid to this issue has increased considerably in all member states .
the evolution of the internet , its incredibly rapid development and its importance today raise the question of its use for these reprehensible purposes .
the problem of crime on the internet cannot be resolved by any state in isolation .
i would like to congratulate mr kirkhope on his report .
all the proposed measures are suitable and necessary to effectively combat child pornography .
the existence of these networks confirms the need for a common judicial area .
the common judicial area does exist with europol , schengen and eurodac .
for all these reasons i think the european union must make combating this form of crime a priority .
the legitimately and ultimately repressive message of this report will only be heard and be useful if , at the same time , we clearly reassert the basis of a life-enhancing culture , a culture which respects life , applicable to all people in all places , and if , at member state and union level , we provide the practical resources necessary to achieve this .
the first phenomenon is the boom in pornography in general , and the second is , obviously , the exploitation of children for sexual purposes .
the internet , minitel , the post are nothing more than the medium .
this matter has preoccupied us for a long time , too long in my opinion .
however , i share the view of the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport that we should have fixed the age limit at 18 and i hope that the initiatives will lead to the highest possible age limit being set in all member states .
finally , i would like to express my satisfaction that the member states of the eu are so resolutely and actively supporting this austrian proposal and not just taking refuge in soundbites and cliches .
my fourth point is that the register of persons who have been convicted of the distribution of child pornography or of the sexual abuse of children will hopefully be implemented across europe as quickly as possible and that access will be available to all member states and europol .
i would also like to appeal to the member states , in the interests of the most vulnerable members of society , to implement as quickly and efficiently as possible the measures proposed by the rapporteur in his excellent report and by the austrian initiative .
as has already been stressed , the aim is to intensify actions to prevent and combat the sexual abuse of children , with particular reference to the production , possession and distribution of child pornography through the internet .
the austrian initiative to reintroduce the draft joint action to combat child pornography on the internet , on which parliament has already delivered a favourable opinion , is welcomed by the commission .
the commission has been closely involved in international activities and initiatives addressing this issue , such as the international conference on combating child pornography on the internet , which was held from 29 september to 1 october 1999 in vienna .
the commission has long been concerned about child pornography on the net .
the council and parliament adopted it on 25 january 1999 .
it is also involved in the current negotiations on a draft convention on cyber crime in the framework of the council of europe that will address the specific problem of paedo-pornography on the internet .
the commission fully supports the position expressed in the draft report that the subject of child pornography on the internet should involve the approximation of the laws and regulations of the member states .
the commission will participate fully in the discussions that will take place in the council with a view to adopting this draft decision in order to see whether further action should and would be needed .
the debate is closed .
but encounters between people from different cultures are not always simple , and they should therefore be helped along , just as refugees should be given support to begin new lives in their new locations .
the european refugee fund is a first and very modest attempt to distribute resources in proportion to the tasks which individual member states promise to undertake .
we are talking about eur 26 million to cover the fixed expenses of the current work , distributed among 15 member states .
all in all , however , the european refugee fund is , in fact , to be regarded as a start .
the commission is obviously on the right track .
however , the committee on budgets is raising two objections .
the second objection is more extensive .
asylum-seekers are not a burden but a responsibility .
a proposed amendment from our committee requires that all measures under this fund should be based on an approach designed to prevent any outbreak of xenophobia , racism , discrimination or inequality .
not to take such an approach would be short-sighted , as others have already pointed out .
needless to say , the values will depend on the influx of asylum seekers in each country , the number of people granted refugee status , obviously in accordance with the geneva convention , and the number of displaced persons received .
in this respect , amendment no 19 deals with refugees , while amendment no 21 focuses on displaced persons .
the fund should help to balance up the differences between member states in the acceptance and integration of persons in need of protection .
they campaigned against denmark ' s joining the single currency , which we are to vote on in september , and they have been on the " no " side in four out of the five previous danish referenda .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , it is with great relief that we welcomed the proposed council decision on the creation of a european refugee fund .
the report shows the extent to which parliamentary activity can be beneficial to europe .
finally , in conclusion , i should like once again to stress the ever more insistent need for member states to arrive quickly at common legislation in matters of asylum .
mr president , allow me first of all to emphasise that , in the referendum on the edinburgh agreement in 1993 , the danish people declined to participate in eu cooperation on legal issues , and denmark is not , therefore , bound by any legal obligations to allow the eu to decide which refugees are to be received by denmark .
and one cannot in all decency receive money from the eu if one will not also allow the eu to decide which refugees are to be allocated to which countries .
since 1997 , we have been trying to carry out coherent work in this respect , and we have had some successes .
however , in order to be fully successful , we need a legal basis to ensure the continuity of the work on improving the reception , the integration , or , where they wish it , the satisfactory return of the asylum seekers and refugees present in the european union .
those are three different areas of work .
the member states have a major role to play in this respect and must make considerable efforts .
however , as she herself did , i would like to point out a few problems which , in our opinion , are still important and which need to be remedied .
in practice , the countries which take in the greatest number of refugees will probably receive the most funds .
the proposal is to establish a permanent european fund distributing appropriations to assist member states in managing their countries ' usual flow of refugees , genuine or not .
in such conditions , the risk of things spiralling out of control and of financial abuse is very great indeed , mr president , and the report itself even implies as much when it states that the planned appropriations , even though they still amount to eur 36 million , are much less than the potential demand .
the union for a europe of nations group considers that there is just one solution if we want to halt this risk : for each member state to retain financial responsibility for the reception of refugees , and for european solidarity to be kept only for exceptional tragic circumstances . - ( pt ) mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , many of us have repeatedly called for the european refugee fund to be established .
what must in one case be met with policies of support for integration must , in others , in the interests of the refugees themselves , be met with policies of support for a return to the country or region which they were forced to flee .
you know better than i do that the proposed council decision on this fund was adopted by the commission on 14 december 1999 .
the fund is a single instrument combining support for member state actions on the reception , integration and voluntary repatriation of refugees and displaced persons , which were previously dealt with in joint actions and pilot projects on the basis of appropriations allocated annually to the community budget on the initiative of the european parliament .
i think that adopting this fund contribute to showing that , in this area , the european union as such can provide added value for the efforts of each individual member state .
the commission has already pointed out to the parliament ' s committee on budgets that it intends to propose , in its preliminary draft budget for 2001 , the financial means to maintain the fund for the next five years .
in other words , the commission will propose increasing the eur 36 million for the year 2000 to eur 45 million for the following years , thus taking the overall allocation for the five years to eur 216 million .
the european refugee fund will be able to cofinance member state actions up to 50 % , a level which can be increased to 75 % for member states benefiting from the cohesion fund .
together with my fellow commissioner , michaele schreyer , i have already initiated discussions on the ways of utilising , in the event of an emergency , the maximum possible resources suited to the needs of the situation .
in this area , however , what worries me more than the figures - because , unfortunately or fortunately , the necessary funds cannot be provided to respond to emergencies such as kosovo - and what we are looking for is some financial and also administrative mechanism sufficiently perfected to fulfil needs efficiently in an emergency situation .
as regards amendments , the commission has taken note of all the proposed amendments and can accept , conditional upon some formal reworking , in some cases , the principles behind a number of them which aim to make the objectives of the european refugee fund clearer in the introduction , or to make some terms more precise .
one particular case is the mention , in the introduction , of the importance of ngo activities , and there are some useful clarifications , such as transparency in the project selection process , or the need to promote the long-term continuity of projects .
in this decision it is important to avoid anything which might add to their workload and slow the process down , without allowing for the fact that the amounts involved are not vast and that if this decision for the year 2000 is adopted this year , that will not leave much time to prepare cofinancing requests .
the commission proposes to take on board some of the ideas put forward in the amendments in terms of defining the practical arrangements for the implementation of this instrument and for the dialogue to be entered into with the relevant national bodies .
the fund is intended to contribute to balancing member state efforts .
in conclusion , mr president , the commission is delighted to see the european parliament support this initiative .
thank you very much , mr vitorino .
the debate is closed .
i am very aware of the fact that any amendments to the council common position are likely to carry a real risk that the directive will be lost in conciliation , since the directive was , and continues to be , a very delicate compromise .
so the question for us as members of the european parliament is whether the proposed amendments are absolutely necessary compared to the potential risk that we do not get the supervisory framework at all .
amendments nos 1 and 2 add the words " at par value " to the report .
these additional words are not absolutely necessary as article 3 sets out the terms for redeemability .
in this latter case the additional words would add nothing and be misleading to the consumer .
adding the words " at par value " to article 3 ( 1 ) may mislead the consumer since it is always possible to deduct the charges that are strictly necessary to carry out that operation .
according to the common position member states may allow their competent authorities to waive the application of some or all of the provisions of the proposed directive .
the waiver is possible in cases where the total amount of e-money issued is limited and where the e-money issued is accepted as a means of payments by only a limited number of undertakings .
for example , the waiver could be used for university campus payment cards or for local transport systems .
the council was able to agree its common position only because it felt that a directive , which included a waiver but tightened regulation and permitted competition in a single market , was better than no directive at all .
should the recommendation be adopted here without any amendments , i would ask that the commission and the council make use of what is in the directive and submit to parliament a brief report on the consequences of the directives with any amendments which might be necessary .
mr president , electronic money does not yet have the same importance in the european union as e-commerce , e-business , e-europe .
i think that electronic money will gain in importance , not just in commerce but also for consumers , particularly as the safety precautions on the internet are regarded as inadequate and many are therefore hesitant to choose this option .
it is , of course , also important to consider the role of the european central bank - controlling the amount of money in circulation , for example .
for this reason i cannot support the new wording of article 8c .
i think that we must do everything possible to increase consumer confidence in the electronic money age and not to build consumer foundations which have no stability .
mr president , it is very regrettable that this common position , which has been put together with such care by the council and which paid due respect to the parliament 's views at first reading , is now in the process of unravelling .
the concerns , particularly about the waiver , are misguided precisely because it would be very limited : it would be limited to only eur 150 on any particular card .
therefore , in the years before the ecb took charge of euro-zone monetary policy , the bundesbank itself was not able to respect the growth of its money supply targets .
that is very regrettable .
there are a lot of safeguards that the commission has put in here that the council has carefully discussed and i very much hope that we will fully support the council common position on this matter .
mr president , as from january 1999 , the euro has been the new currency for most of the european union .
the conclusion of that survey clearly demonstrated that costs for consumers of transferring money from one country to another in europe are still too high .
i do not think that it will be helped by the amendments being proposed inside this parliament today and indeed in our committee .
may i also express the appreciation of the european commission for the continuing support from this parliament for the e-money initiative and , indeed , for all the commission 's e-commerce initiatives .
the commission has noticed the high level of cooperation between parliament , council and commission in reaching an early agreement on the e-money proposals .
the provision on redeemability , which was proposed by this parliament at the first reading - a first reading which took place almost a year ago - and was accepted by the council , is clear .
on this basis , and for this reason , i cannot regrettably accept the first two amendments .
amendments nos 3 and 4 propose substantially to limit the circumstances in which member states may waive the application of some or all of the provisions of the directive to certain limited electronic money schemes ; here i am concerned because of a misunderstanding on the waiver provisions .
these provisions are optional , they are limited in their application to specific identifiable schemes and they are on a case by case basis .
as stated by mr skinner , under the e-money procedure the customer first pays in his money and then gets the equivalent amount of electronic money .
therefore considerations of monetary supply or monetary stability - as one member put it , e-money as a vector of credit - simply do not apply .
regrettably , therefore , i cannot accept amendments nos 3 or 4 .
turning to amendment no 5 , which amends the text so as to prohibit member states from waiving the redeemability requirement but does not limit in any other way the provisions of article 8 allowing member states to waive the provisions of the directive in respect of certain limited schemes , the commission 's view of this amendment is somewhat less unfriendly than it is regarding amendments nos 1 to 4 .
animal nutrition inspections the next item is the recommendation for second reading ( a5-0084 / 2000 ) on behalf of the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy , on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive 95 / 53 / ec fixing the principles governing the organisation of official inspections in the field of animal nutrition 10804 / 1 / 1999 - c5-0273 / 1999 - 1998 / 0301 ( cod ) ( rapporteur : mr staes ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , commissioner , practice has shown that scandals and crises can have a cleansing effect and can help improve legislation .
in flanders , where i come from , we now have what i would term , without hesitation , the strictest national hormone legislation in europe following a whole series of attacks on meat inspectors and the murder of the devoted veterinary surgeon , karel van noppen .
as early as 16 december of that same year , parliament assented to this proposal without tabling one single amendment .
after the treaty of amsterdam came into effect , the commission immediately changed the legal basis of 100 a to 152 .
this legislation offers us various procedures for transferring the powers of the council to the commission .
the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy is now submitting four amendments in plenary to mr staes ' s report .
the council is then obliged , within 30 days , to process these measures , to validate them and to legitimise or , if necessary , reject them .
europe and the internal market can only exist if they are also accepted by the citizens and the consumers .
mr president , the rapporteur said in his introduction that crises have a cleansing effect .
i therefore hope that , tomorrow , we will actually slap the council of ministers in the face by unanimously affirming the rapporteur ' s four amendments .
the council does not therefore see what we have seen , which is that as a follow-up to european legislation it is necessary to have structures to monitor and take fast action in the event of a problem .
i particularly appreciate the good collaboration with parliament in this case .
in 1998 , the detection of dioxin in some raw materials imported into the community showed the need for a legal basis to permit the commission when confronted by a serious risk to public health to adopt safeguard measures on products from third countries .
the proposal also extends the legal basis to carry out on-the-spot inspections , both in member states and in third countries .
the commission , although not opposed to most of the amendments made by the council , strongly rejected the council amendment concerning the safeguard procedure .
council has denied the possibility for the commission to take immediate action in emergency cases without consulting member states beforehand .
the possibility for the commission situations to react quickly in emergency cases even before consulting member states is a landmark question .
the discussion in the present case constitutes an important precedent for the future .
in the recent proposal to the european parliament and to the council adopted on 21 march , the commission introduced the same safeguard clause concerning feedingstuffs produced within the european union .
consequently , this question will also be relevant for several measures on feedingstuffs which are of vital importance and which are announced in the white paper on food safety .
for all these reasons , i can fully accept amendments nos 1 , 2 , and 4 by which parliament reintroduces the original provision on safeguard procedures .
a survey of the current situation shows that 307 additives are authorised within the european union .
not reducing the list , but extending it a little further since the commission has made nine proposals , either to add certain additives to the list or to extend the uses of some already authorised additives .
as for the risks to the consumer , apparently these are not very significant , but the scientific committees which have looked into the matter do consider that the laxative effect of this additive is likely to combine with other problems of the same type .
e467 is problematic in terms of assessing its harmlessness , because it contains extremely dangerous impurities .
finally , three other additives are proposed as propellants .
i think it is important , mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , to reverse the trend in the current legislation on additives .
the use of e 467 - i will not attempt to pronounce the full word - as proposed by the commission , seems to meet this requirement .
mr president , our foodstuffs - and this also applies to entirely fresh produce , for example the peeled carrots we heard mentioned today - are nowadays doctored in all kinds of ways with colouring agents , sweeteners , flavour enhancers and preservatives , in fact with every possible type of substance .
and all in order to disguise the products ' natural characteristics .
i think that community policy in relation to the use of additives has developed in a quite irresponsible way .
it is a problem which mr lannoye also mentioned in his intervention , namely the question of adding nitrates and nitrites to meat products .
i hope that commissioner byrne , who has assumed responsibility for this area , will examine the question of added amounts of nitrates and nitrites .
mr president , the report is concerned with supplementing a list of permitted additives with additional foodstuff additives , other than colouring agents and flavourings .
the commission only offers talk of the precautionary principle , whereas mr lannoye has shown in his report that it is also about implementing it in practice and actually making the precautionary principle a keynote .
as is well known , there are three prior conditions which must be fulfilled if additives are to be included on the positive list .
in addition to what mr lund has said about nitrites and nitrates , i would mention that , in the course of the last part-session , i asked the commission if the newly discovered scientific facts about these two substances ' effects on health had caused the commission to review its position .
ethylhydroxyethylcellulose has , however , been used for more than 20 years in sweden and finland , and i think also in norway , as a binding agent in gluten-free bread and pastries .
however , i maintain that in reality the opposite may be true .
he has done a service to the committee and also to this house by pointing out that this procedure appears to be almost always one-way .
we need to hear from the commission on two points of principle : the first is whether the procedures themselves need review as the commission spokesman suggested in the debate in the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy ; secondly , whether there is a more efficacious way of removing additives as well as bringing them into effect .
it seems to us that the list is getting larger and that the burden of proof must remain with those , be they in member states , in the commission or in the scientific committees , who want us to adapt these things .
i am prepared to accept that some of these are harmless .
we all want to look again at this issue and see why they have been chosen and whether we might now hold back any clearance of them , at least until the review which is suggested has been carried through .
we would prefer to strike out recital 5 and we shall so vote .
finally , as regards amendment no 2 in the name of my group , this is purely a drafting amendment to remove references to the codecision procedure .
the rapporteur rightly wonders if the additives added to our foodstuffs are really necessary and , more especially , if they are really harmless .
approved additives are safe and present no risk to public health .
food additives are only permitted if it is demonstrated that there is a technological need for them and consumers are not misled and will benefit from having a choice of new products with better quality .
several of the additives now proposed for use have been temporarily authorised by some member states .
provided that the opinions of the scientific committee are respected , technological need is demonstrated and consumers are not misled , community legislation should recognise the experience of the member states in the use of these additives .
the amendments proposed do not sufficiently take into account the opinions of the scientific committee for food and the technological need that exists in some member states .
as to the first amendment , the application of the precautionary principle is not appropriate as has been mentioned by a number of speakers this evening .
the commission does not believe that amendments nos 2 and 6 are necessary or appropriate in respect of this directive .
the commission is sponsoring this directive on the basis of the well-established criteria that the additives in question are safe , as evaluated by the scientific committee for food , that there is a technological need and that consumers are not misled and will benefit from having a choice of more products with better quality .
however , it is my own belief that such an amendment could be appropriate in framework directive 89 / 107 of 21 december 1998 , and that document is referred to in the annex to the white paper at entry no 42 .
first of all , in relation to sodium alginate , a number of speakers mentioned the fact that this particular proposal would have the effect of misleading consumers because it was designed for the purpose of keeping the carrots fresh .
i would have strong reserves about approaching a particular problem in that way and therefore we should give full regard to the opinions of scientific committees .
mr whitehead asked me if we should give some consideration to a more effective way of removing additives .
not only mr whitehead but also some other speakers made reference to this .
i would ask you , therefore , to be a little more circumspect before rejecting all the amendments out of hand , since i can also claim to have made a scientific study of the situation .
we adopted a set of changes to the rules of procedure last year to try to rationalise our work .
in these changes we gave every member the right to table an amendment as an individual at committee stage , but we limited the right to table amendments in plenary to 32 members or a political group .
however , if you look at the amendments that have been tabled on thursday , for instance to the dimitrakopoulos-leinen report , you will see that there are over 100 amendments which are tabled by individuals , supposedly in the name of their political group , but this may well not be the case .
i notice , for instance , that the epp group has over 100 amendments in its name but signed by 18 different members , none of them the coordinator or leader of the group .
over 20 of these amendments are contradictory , so they cannot possibly all be the position of the epp group .
so much time is spent and wasted on voting as it is and this is a way to get around the rationalisation of the rules of procedure we adopted as a parliament last year .
amendments must either be tabled in the name of 32 members or in the name of a political group and actually represent the position of that political group , not of the individual who happens to table them in the name of the group so as to circumvent the limitation on tabling rules in plenary .
mr president , i was present yesterday and i signed the register but my name does not appear in the minutes .
it shall be done , mrs mcnally .
mr rubig , look upon it as an exceptional decision taken in response to specific requests from the portuguese presidency . ( the minutes were approved ) mr president , on a point of order .
it concerns a reference made yesterday by the president on the change of business which is taking place this week .
it is planned for our agenda in may .
on postponement of the decision concerning discharge to the commission in respect of the financial management of the sixth , seventh and eighth european development funds for the 1998 financial year [ com ( 1999 ) 227 - c5-0003 / 1999 - 1999 / 2004 ( dec ) ] .
on granting discharge to the european foundation for improvement of living and working conditions ( dublin ) for the 1998 financial year [ c5-0150 / 2000 - 2000 / 2094 ( dec ) ] .
on granting discharge to the european centre for the development of vocational training ( thessaloniki ) for the 1998 financial year [ c5-0149 / 2000 - 2000 / 2093 ( dec ) ] .
on the granting of discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the 1998 financial year section iv - court of justice section v - court of auditors section vi , part b - committee of the regions [ sec ( 1999 ) 414 - c5-0008 / 1999 - 1999 / 2166 ( dec ) ] .
firstly , the error rate of over five per cent calculated by the court of auditors over several years must be cut considerably by 2001 and a positive declaration of assurance must be achieved by 2003 .
secondly , the particularly blatant cases of fraud and irregularity in connection with the flechard case , echo , med and contracts awarded to visiting scientists must be fully clarified and dealt with in disciplinary terms .
thirdly , parliament must be given unrestricted access to information and documents for its control activities , as called for in the 1997 discharge resolution .
fourthly : reports must be filed on the relevant disciplinary hearings and fundamental reforms implemented .
the fact that this motion was tabled in the form of a compromise between the four main groups demonstrates clearly that parliament is pulling in the same direction on this extremely important issue and wishes to signal its unity over and above party political divisions and any national interests or chauvinism .
commissioner ' s kinnock ' s reform paper , which is broad in scope if nothing else , sets off every single alarm bell in the area of financial control .
decentralisation must not result in the total de facto abolition of internal financial control .
in this sense , i see the motion for a resolution as a chance for the commission to justify the trust which parliament demonstrated in it and its president when i was nominated last september and which it reiterated in its discharge for the 1997 budgetary year .
the motion should also send out nothing more and nothing less than a clear signal of parliament ' s support to the president of the commission , who unfortunately is not with us here today .
however , it is difficult to grant discharge for a budget which is two years old and this problem is exacerbated by the fact that it was not the responsibility of the present commission but of its predecessor , a commission which resigned because it failed to take its responsibilities seriously enough .
our committee had confidential information on mismanagement and irregularities which amounted to suspicion of corruption .
together with representatives from the commission and the parliamentary committee on development we have drawn up an action plan , which can be implemented by 15 may .
i think that this development clearly demonstrates the direction that we need to take .
the commission and parliament must work together and must create greater transparency in relation to the budget and its implementation .
it took the committee over 15 months to refer justified cases of suspicion of fraud to olaf .
however , we have not moved for a postponement in this area because we hope that a satisfactory solution can be found and that we can grant discharge for the buildings in the 1999 budget with no further pressure needed .
my draft report was presented to the committee in all language versions on 10 february this year and all the shortcomings reported in the press , such as the article in the european voice about 10 days ago , have already been addressed in an open and critical manner in the report .
that is another difference in the discharge procedures .
if we did that , there would not be a single commission over the next 20 years which needed to fear parliament ' s discharge or , at most , its merciless opportunism !
the reason for this is that we delayed the discharge for 1992 for a long time , because we had made certain requirements of the commission which up to last year it had failed to meet .
in general terms , the error rate for agriculture is below the general error rate for the budget .
there has since been an increase in expenditure for development within rural areas but i will come back to this .
we can grant discharge to the commission without these three elements .
the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam therefore means that the principle of the equality of all citizens and of the equivalence of all acts in the eyes of the law must be applied in the area of the protection of financial interests .
mr president , we are now considering the first legislative measure on the prevention of fraud and other irregularities since the treaty of amsterdam came into force .
this is an amendment to a regulation designed to prevent fraud and other irregularities relating to the common agricultural policy .
in 1970 , the cap accounted for up to 87 % of community expenditure and this amount has gradually fallen over the last three decades to around 45 % of community expenditure today .
until a few years ago , even the policing of fraud in agriculture was not overseen by the appropriate department , which was uclaf , but by the directorate-general for agriculture itself .
this is why we propose that this house should request that the legal basis for regulating the prevention of fraud and other irregularities be changed from article 37 to article 280 .
we have decided to give the discharge on three conditions , and the conditions are clearly spelt out .
we hope that by 15 august those concerned will give us the information that is requested .
the number of people employed for the amount of money being invested is again quite disproportionate .
i am hoping that this can be wound up speedily and incorporated in either the eib or the european investment fund , because that would be a better way of using the money and resources .
this is for the social and research fund , but again these objectives could be better addressed by a bank that would ask other banks to manage investments so that we have the highest return .
i hope that the three conditions , the conditional discharge and the obligations on those concerned to address these conditions will be taken seriously .
so i hope that the answers will be given to parliament and to the committee on budgetary control .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , as rapporteur for the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs , it is with some satisfaction that i would like to point out that , in our own area of competence , the court of auditors had no criticism to make of the way the appropriations for the financial year 1998 were implemented .
in a word , as far as our committee ' s area of competence is concerned , there is nothing to prevent the discharge being granted to the commission .
the citizens ' primary right is to see that their money is managed and spent properly and as long is this is not clearly established discharge must not be granted .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , expenditure for research accounts for nearly two thirds of the budget for internal policy .
the success and usefulness of the research programmes are beyond dispute .
but effective implementation requires better management and coordination , as well as inspections carried out by various directorates-general .
secondly , the irregularities identified by the court of auditors refer mainly to errors in relation to proof of expenditure which are signed by member states , and for which they are responsible .
we have translated this criticism into a number of very concrete questions , answers and proposals in order to make drastic changes to the policy as it is being adopted now and will be adopted this coming year .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , today , for the second time this year , we are debating the discharge of the commission for the budget of a previous financial year .
two and a half months ago , you granted the commission discharge for the 1997 budget .
in its report on the 1998 financial year , submitted in november last year , the court of auditors granted the commission a declaration of assurance with regard to receipts and the handling of commitment appropriations .
that is why i immediately took the initiative , in my official capacity , of drafting an action plan listing specific measures sector by sector on the basis of a specific timetable , in order to reduce the number of errors identified .
nearly 90 % of all errors identified or highlighted by the court of auditors concern the member states .
the majority of payments out of the eu budget are paid not directly by the brussels administration , but by administrative units in the member states .
the council , which recommended discharge for the commission , included the question of shared management in its debate on the 1998 budget discharge and the proposal was mooted that the member states should perhaps set their own objective for reducing shortcomings in the implementation of eu funds , an interesting proposal .
the european court of auditors also issued a declaration of assurance for the budget of the european development fund , although it did find cause for complaint .
the legislative , budgetary and control powers of the individual institutions overlap even more in the european union than they do in the member states .
the chairman of the committee on budgetary control , mrs theato , also has a very responsible role in this respect .
the commission has made a commitment to transparency and openness .
the commission has nothing to hide and this commission sees it as its duty to support parliament fully in the performance of its duties .
the commission is called on in the report adopted by the committee on budgetary control to answer various questions or take direct action by 15 may .
i should like to thank the committee on budgetary control for this resolution and also for the deadline attached to it .
i should like to say quite clearly at this point that the commission will do everything within its powers to fight fraud and that applies not only to the future , but to clearing up past cases .
it also means that proportionality is required when meting out punishment and demanding refunds and this applies both to demands by the commission and to refunds demanded by the member states .
my colleague franz fischler will shortly be going into the question of the agricultural budget in connection with discharge in greater detail .
but i too should like to say at this point that i do not see the letters drawing the commission ' s attention to the fact that companies may fold or jobs be destroyed following certain commission measures as an illegal attempt at intervention , irrespective of whether the letters originate in parliament or in a member state and regardless of whether they come from france , ireland or bavaria .
however , the commission will immediately notify olaf of your demands and , as far as the administrative investigation is concerned , i have set the procedure of clarification in motion .
the commission will do everything to ensure that the reform is a success and it would be a good thing if all the european institutions were to expose themselves to such reform .
mr mulder , i should like to start by thanking you on behalf of the commission for your report on granting discharge in respect of the decisions on clearance of accounts of the guarantee section of the eaggf for the 1993 , 1994 and 1995 financial years .
the date of april 2002 is needed in order at last to guarantee the proper operation of the integrated administration and control system in all the member states .
even if it is not prescribed under law , it could of course simplify a number of operations , not only for the commission , but also for the court of auditors or olaf .
the recruitment procedure for the remaining six posts has already been completed , or will be shortly .
the conciliation body referred to in number 16 of the report is one of the measures which should ensure that efforts to speed up the procedure do not compromise the quality of document audits .
as far as proposed amendment no 2 is concerned , the commission cannot accept the part which refers to the second paragraph of article 5a , in which mention is made of administrative and staffing costs incurred by the commission in administering this scheme .
on the other hand , granting discharge is a serious procedure with serious consequences in that the controlling body answers for the fact that the activities and financial conduct of the body being controlled have been correct from a legal , economic and political point of view .
the sources for the information and documents needed from the commission , on the other hand , gushed little , if anything at all , despite a great deal of paper and , unfortunately , no clear answers were given to the questions asked .
the rapporteur quotes four cases by way of example .
the rapporteur and the committee on budgetary control are not holding the present commission per se responsible for the deplorable state of affairs in previous years .
using the pressure of postponement to advance discharge is constructive pressure because it gives the commission the chance to clear up shortcomings caused by slowness , pettifogging or unwillingness so that parliament will be able to grant discharge for 1998 as quickly as possible , hopefully before the summer recess .
mr president , the committee on budgetary control has considered several reports recently , mostly relating to the 1998 discharge procedure .
it is a strange time for us to be considering how the commission is faring after its forced resignation last year due to many of the issues highlighted in the 1996 discharge .
the discharge procedure is , of course , an opportunity for the european parliament to exercise its responsibility in terms of monitoring the commission and the other institutions ' behaviour .
we ensure that policies have been well managed .
i will quote shakespeare .
it makes no sense in the context of the postponement report , and it is totally nonsensical and hysterical in tone .
we would like to thank the rapporteur for her cooperation on that .
but one thing which has become manifestly clear to me during this process is that we need an overhaul of the discharge procedure to avoid this kind of confrontation again .
this discharge procedure should be an opportunity to study systems failures within the commission .
in an ideal world , it should be based on the court of auditors ' report , but that does mean that both the budgetary control committee and the court of auditors must develop a much closer relationship .
there is a massive amount of expertise in the court of auditors , expertise that parliament should draw on in order to reach its own political conclusions .
the discharge procedure should not be a time to score political points nor to hound individuals but , where systems fail and lead to inefficiency or - worse - to fraud , it is the duty of parliament to correct them .
we must also make sure that we find a mechanism within this system to make sure that we take account not only of the reports that are submitted by members of the budgetary control committee , but also those by members of other parliamentary committees .
these are just two examples of how the commission can improve its act in the short term without waiting to implement all the recommendations of the white paper .
there is a question to answer as to whether the current commission should or can take responsibility for the mistakes and problems of the past commission .
if we took this to its logical conclusion , it would mean that parliament could only judge a sitting commission during three years of its tenure .
mr kuhne has done an excellent job as rapporteur for the parliament discharge .
our financial control system does not have the quantity of payments that the commission has and therefore things are more manageable .
we have had everlasting problems , of course , with the buildings , often through no fault of our own but because decisions have been imposed on us by the council .
if the council had any concern about budget control , we certainly would not be sitting in this building right now .
it has still not been published officially , and therefore it is difficult for us to comment on it .
i am delighted that mrs ruhle has done such a great job on the edf report .
we hope that we will be able to develop a better approach in the next part of this discharge procedure .
i should add that we , as a group , have less appreciation for the explanatory note which the rapporteur has added to her own resolution .
i would now like to come back to the stauner report and a number of points made in it .
we can see that the new commission is making an effort , but the 1998 discharge is at issue here and we must take it very seriously .
we must re-establish confidence and that means that , as a committee , we must make a critical examination of the 1998 budget .
we hope that the action plan will help the administration to achieve better management .
obviously it was not possible to submit this action plan in time for today ' s decision .
however , we call on parliament for precisely this reason to vote for a postponement here , so that an action plan can be drawn up jointly by 15 may .
transparency and openness mean - and this is my clear call - that we must apply the same yardstick to all the institutions .
mr president , the european union lacks moral authority .
i do not really understand why it should discharge itself just now , when the report by the court of auditors of the european communities on monetary and economic issues for 1998 is being prepared and is about to be published .
most of the officials in the eu are diligent and decent people .
postponement of the granting of discharge is in itself the result of a quite incredible situation .
these extraordinary results from a seedy administrative culture go back to 1998 and are not this commission ' s direct responsibility , but it is the present commission ' s responsibility to show that the misconduct , fraud and betrayal of mandates which have taken place really do belong to the past .
we shall therefore vote against the discharge for parliament ' s 1998 accounts .
the commission must understand that they are not europe ' s overlords but the servants of european citizens .
i think that we need to do some straight talking to the commission and that we may have to penalise their persistent bad conduct with a new crisis of confidence after 15 may , if necessary by means of a motion of no confidence , because desperate situations call for desperate measures .
under article 276 ( 2 ) , the ec treaty requires the commission to submit to parliament any necessary information on the execution of expenditure and operation of the financial control systems .
i have a few comments on mr kuhne ' s and mrs stauner ' s reports .
if we take the context of this report we will see that it has to stand on its own merits .
if we add to that the court of auditors ' report on the operation of the political groups , we have come to the conclusion in our political group that we need to postpone discharge on its own merits .
you can ask for access to information , but if you do not get it then you have to start applying a certain rigidity and postpone discharge .
secondly , the question of the disciplinary procedure .
therefore we , as a parliament , should look at each of these cases as it stands .
my group will be in favour of postponing discharges both for the commission and for parliament until all the information is available to us .
mrs schreyer , members of the commission , use the postponement of discharge for the 1998 budget as an opportunity to show that the new team is strong on management and able to act .
mr president , the key task of this european parliament is , and remains , that of restoring european citizens ' confidence in the european project .
unfortunately , the council failed once again this year to follow the good example of parliament , and discharge for 1998 has been granted as if the matter were quite insignificant .
our pressure has prompted the european commission to undertake drastic reform in foreign policy .
the plans for changing the project cycle and transforming the scr into a european bureau are a positive step forward .
the kuhne report is parliament ' s first report which takes discharge seriously .
i would like to emphatically lay the blame for parliament ' s bad image with those who have always had a majority .
the two large parties are responsible for the ethos of nepotism and underhand dealing which permeates this house .
to grant discharge is , when all is said and done , to grant a certificate of good management .
the four largest groups have reached a compromise in which it is recommended that discharge be delayed and that the european commission be given a list of 17 specific questions .
i was a victim of this myself in a previous life when my computer and printer were stolen .
hence our amendment which recommends postponement of discharge for parliament ' s budget and which has given the secretary-general a list of queries which we expect to be answered by 15 may .
the union for a europe of nations group is convinced that such practices can only seriously impair the credibility and , hence , the image of the european union as a whole .
the treaties clearly establish the exclusive competence of parliament in matters of budgetary control .
mr president , the 1998 discharge procedure illustrates once again that the european union ' s bad image is not totally unfounded but is actually based on facts .
the stauner report deserves every support on this score .
it is important that you try to become , firstly , an example for the member states to follow and that , therefore , you understand that we demand more of you , if possible ; and one day we will have to start to talk very seriously about these cases which are always detected in the council rather than in the commission .
all the groups have reached an agreement to raise 17 questions in relation to certain cases .
after the crisis of the previous commission , which you have begun to deal with , what we want - because we believe in your intentions and we want a strong and independent commission and we are therefore giving you time - is for you to give us a positive response to certain very specific cases .
as rapporteur for the 1999 commission budget , i would love to be able to do my work in the clear knowledge of which documents we have access to and which we do not and why .
as you can see in this budget , this is a political debate which goes beyond a strict examination of what you have done with regard to the 1998 budget .
we will also have to reach a framework agreement on how we can include in this debate - which is becoming increasingly important - not only accounting issues but also issues from other years relating to expenditure or management .
you are facing a great challenge , because even more resources are lost through a lack of motivation , that virus which has infected the entire administration of the commission and which you must eradicate .
this is a quality issue which will also have to be increasingly discussed in the context of this debate .
i will refer finally to the european parliament ' s budget , and i would like to reply to those people who say that , since we are supposedly tough and demanding with you , we must also be so with regard to our own institution .
the same must be demanded of parliament as of all the others , but this is our house , we have more information and we can therefore take a different approach when it comes to proposing , as the kuhne report does , a conditional discharge and not a postponement of the discharge .
i will end by saying that you can reply to the 17 questions we have raised .
we want you to do so , and we understand that in that way we can support you so that you , who have just joined this commission , can really control your house . ' take the bull by the horns ' - as we say in spain - and we will be able to achieve a discharge for this year on the part of the majority of the groups in this house before the summer .
the treaty is clear : in accordance with article 276 , parliament is entitled to obtain all necessary information in connection with the discharge procedure .
excuse me but , either the man has been out in the sun too long or he must have some incredibly bad advisers .
until they understand this , i think we should postpone granting discharge .
i hope the commission will take our demands seriously .
the echo scandal has still not led to any repercussions .
the problem is that the echo case is not about property crime .
the decision to exonerate the previous director was taken by the previous commission , and this was a political decision pure and simple .
there are still unresolved demands but , if we postpone granting the discharge , this will be accompanied by clear demands upon the commission .
i obtained 11 reports under pentagon-like conditions , but olaf still does not know anything about these .
as the member states , that is to say the council , has advocated discharge , this is almost a matter of structural conflict .
apparently , the court of auditors should specify the shortcomings and incidences of malpractice in more detail and place less trust in mathematics .
commissioner kinnock ' s package of reforms must be pushed through without delay .
the main focus is the reform of internal auditing in each of the institutions .
mr president , over the last few days we have read in the press that the european parliament is a haven for thieves .
mr president , commissioner , i was responsible for the research section of the part of the report by my fellow member , gabriele stauner , relating to internal policy .
the court of auditors highlighted a series of shortcomings in the research area in 1998 .
they also include the internal audit report drafted in 1997 on the area of jurisdiction of the former commissioner for research , mrs cresson .
mr president , representatives of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , the discharge procedure is a complicated exercise .
this report was unacceptable in its initial form because it did not give us the material to form an opinion as to whether or not the budget for 1998 was correctly implemented by the commission .
i shall conclude by mentioning the internal reform of the commission .
among other objectives , the commission has set itself the task of improving financial control by various means : new structures , responsibilities of authorising officers , and financial controllers within each directorate-general .
it also seems essential that , in combination with the determination to reduce irregularity and fraud effectively , the reform should be able to look into the implementation of our policies within member states , where one of the problems arising concerns payment deadlines and the inadequacy of some payment appropriations .
there is fraud at every level of government at which i have served - local , national and european and regional .
it is always there , but local and national bodies can stand up to criticism better perhaps than this younger institution of the european union , which is less accepted .
the last point i will make is that we have not only an obligation to ensure that accounts are better kept and money is better accounted for .
mr president , parliament ' s refusal last year to grant discharge on the 1996 budgetary year heralded the fall of the santer commission .
parliament employed its powers in a sound manner under special circumstances .
the commission is being given the opportunity of responding to a number of urgent questions raised and requests made by parliament before 15 may .
the commission has already indicated that it will submit proposals to this effect before the summer .
i am therefore all the more at home today in expressing the concerns i have due to the discharge procedure which is being carried out .
i do not wish to challenge the compromise which appears in the resolution negotiated between the political groups and the rapporteur .
firstly , it no longer uses the vehement and aggressive tone of the initial draft report , a tone which i do not find , as i might say in the style of kenneth starr , worthy of this house , being rather more suited to the tabloid press , and one which should not in any case be used to characterise relations between a responsible institution , such as our own , and a commission in which we expressed our confidence but a few months ago .
thirdly , this report asks the commission questions which it can answer within reasonable time limits , enabling us to vote upon discharge within the time limits stipulated by the treaty .
the first is that we are forgetting what the discharge procedure consists of .
mr president , i shall focus on only one point : access to information .
many of my colleagues have raised this issue this morning .
in my committee , the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy , we are determined to take our responsibilities as meps very seriously indeed .
a start would be a list of who is responsible for what in which budget lines of each committee .
first of all , i would like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur for her report .
finally , i would like to mention the problem surrounding the leonardo programme .
you will be aware that the leonardo programme has played an extremely important role in the events which have led to the previous commission resigning from office .
we want , in the final analysis , to place our trust in the courts , olaf and the disciplinary measures and decisions taken and to work together with president prodi ' s new commission on a basis of trust and on the basis precisely of the relevant new rules and obligations introduced .
demanding a new audit , without submitting any proof or evidence , is hardly going to enhance the credibility of our parliament .
it would be very useful if the commission were to release more information to us and give us the reports we ask for .
any new proof that arises from these cases must be investigated .
the three cases i have mentioned are also quite important because they reflect remarkably on four current commissioners .
all four of them must look carefully at their past , come clean and show this new commission where reform is needed .
i hope that commissioner kinnock listens to this debate and will reflect upon .
although we have recommended discharge for our own budget this time , there are a number of points in the discharge report we should look at , especially the inventory services and the new system .
i welcome the fact that the kuhne report has called for a report on the new inventory system for parliament .
i hope the commission takes the time to look at this debate seriously .
i must simply therefore ask , if we are being accused of withholding something , that you specify what has been withheld , because it is only on this basis that we can clear up misunderstandings or give you more information and this should not fail because of the commission .
the legal basis for olaf clearly states that the director of olaf is responsible for information on investigations or the results of investigations .
we have to discuss this with the director of olaf .
another important point is the question of disciplinary procedure and i should like to comment on this .
mr bosch , you made the comment that the council did not unanimously recommend discharge for the commission this year .
mr mulder , you also returned to this point .
i think we should discuss this at some point - including in the committee on budgetary control - because although the procedure in the netherlands is of course different , there are valuable points which we could perhaps adopt for the procedure in relation to the european budget .
the commission has also decided to set up a separate , internal ex-post audit service and i think that this will again demonstrate that the commission takes the subject of improved financial control extremely seriously .
it has been clearly stated that the objective must be to reduce the error rate and i can only agree with this .
but obviously i cannot reduce the error rates for the 1998 or 1999 budgets in retrospect .
mrs langenhagen used her intervention to criticise the independent financial controller of the union in connection with a report on the research centre in geel .
mrs ferreira , allow me to congratulate you on your first speech in parliament and to thank you for your call for cooperation for the benefit of european politics .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
amendments nos 3 and 4 propose to limit substantially the circumstances in which member states may waive some or all of the provisions of the directive to certain limited electronic money schemes .
therefore , the commission cannot accept amendments nos 3 and 4 .
the request was not submitted in time .
at that time the commission announced a legislative programme with a view to improving food safety regulations .
mismanagement of the crisis , particularly the poor coordination between the various authorities involved , became apparent and was noted in the course of the commission inspection .
the common position did not adopt the european commission ' s right to take safeguard measures appropriate to the context of animal nutrition in the event of an emergency .
this is why the rapporteur proposes reintroducing this clause , and i am pleased to see it because without this clause there is no guarantee of consumer protection in food crisis situations .
on the other hand , these experiments assess the effect of each substance taken in isolation .
we therefore await commission proposals for provisions that are directed more at improving consumer protection but also at promoting quality foodstuffs !
kirkhope report ( a5-0090 / 2000 ) : the danish social democratic members of the european parliament have chosen to vote in favour of the report and fully and wholeheartedly support the initiatives being taken where this is concerned .
in addition , the report sets the cut-off age at 16 for the definition of what must be considered to be child pornography .
in the same way , the idea of the ' offence of child pornography ' must be seen as quite comprehensive !
in addition , it is very important to organise better cooperation between member states police forces through europol .
the european parliament must make bold proposals and must remain very vigilant .
in the same way , it is important that joint , effective measures should be taken and that the european parliament should be kept informed of how this work is progressing .
within the vast internet market there are some people who have found ways to make easy money from exploiting human poverty .
frahm report ( a5-0091 / 2000 ) : mr president , creating this european refugee fund is the very least that could be done to face up to the reception of refugees and forcibly displaced persons likely to enter european union territory .
as in the case of the structural funds , the citizens will be led to believe that europe is handing out heaven-sent money in order to assist them in managing refugees .
europe is thus creating a good reputation for itself on the cheap .
it is always the same process : some pitiful situation is selected ( the plight of the refugees , in this instance ) in order to appeal not to rational argument but to people ' s sympathy .
following our opinion and the response of the council , the commission replaced this project with a proposal to create a european refugee fund , initially for a period of five years ( 2000-2004 ) and i must say that i am delighted with it !
in putting forward a multiannual plan with a wider sphere of activity , the commission is acting in compliance with the treaty of amsterdam in undertaking long-term actions in favour of refugees and displaced persons and responding to the requirements expressed by the european council in tampere in october 1999 regarding the creation of an instrument appropriate for emergency situations .
the fund is a single instrument intended to integrate the three facets of european policy on refugees : the reception , integration and repatriation of refugees and displaced persons .
for the financial year 2000 , the commission proposes an allocation of eur 26 million for structural measures and eur 10 million for emergency measures .
the european commission must provide us with financial estimates covering the entire period of the programme within the scope of current financial perspectives and , if necessary , a proposal for the revision of appropriations , in view of the fact that much greater amounts will be necessary in order to achieve the fund ' s objectives .
an approach whereby immigrants entering the eu in search of protection are seen as a " burden " which has to be " distributed " is fundamentally flawed .
the fund will not , in this form , cause any country to switch to a policy of greater openness towards the immigration of refugees .
a knowledge-based economy underpinned by a society based on information and research will be a powerful factor in the european union ' s development and of course requires a swift and consistent process of structural reforms and the completion of the internal market .
just yesterday , i was able to inform the general affairs council that the portuguese presidency had already prepared a timetable for the remits given by the council for implementation of specific measures in the various areas , and also for appropriate preparation of the feira and nice european councils .
the ecofin council will primarily assume responsibility for strengthening the cardiff process , the action plan for financial services , the action plan for venture capital , the tax package , the mid-term review of the employment guidelines and for the assessment of the contribution made by public finances to growth and employment .
the employment and social affairs council will assume responsibility for conducting a review of the employment guidelines , for mandating the high-level working party on social protection to prepare a study on the sustainability of the pensions system up to 2020 , for applying an open method of coordination to policies for combating social exclusion and for considering the future direction of social policy , with a view to reaching agreement on a european social agenda at the nice european council .
the research council will assume responsibility for the e-europe action plan and for promoting the establishment of a european research area .
the education council will assume responsibility for considering the future objectives of our educational systems , with a view to contributing to the luxembourg and cardiff processes by establishing new basic skills at european union level , for creating a european diploma for basic it skills , for removing obstacles to the mobility of teachers , for developing a european format for curricula vitae , for monitoring national policies on implementing these objectives , for access to the internet in schools by 2001 and for the minimum training , by 2002 , of the network of information technology teachers .
as you can see , the task of setting objectives at the lisbon european council is developing into a major timetable for action that the commission and the various council formations must now implement .
the european council defined a new union strategy , a strategy which will make us a leading power in the new knowledge-based economy and make it possible to restore the necessary conditions for full employment .
the lisbon european council made a firm political commitment to an ambitious socio-economic plan ; clear objectives were agreed for the reforms , the european social model was consolidated and , most importantly , it is now possible for the pledges made to be followed with immediate , practical actions .
our success in lisbon was largely due to the excellent preparatory work of the portuguese presidency .
the lisbon debate generated substantial agreement on most issues .
the european council stressed the importance of a strong , sound macroeconomic policy , consolidation in the field of taxation and sustainable financial policies and the structural reforms .
with regard to the internal market , the european council adopted ambitious objectives in the field of procurement and in order to implement action plans for financial services and risk capital .
the commission must act as the driving force in this process .
the european council subscribed to the joint report prepared by the commission and the high representative , and also our request for more effective coordination between the various programmes implemented by the union in that region .
finally , on the subject of russia , the european council recognised the strategic nature of our relations with moscow and invited president putin to take note of our concern over the situation in chechnya .
to sum up , madam president , i would like to thank this house for its valuable contribution to the lisbon summit and for all it did to ensure the council ' s success .
madam president , mr gama , president prodi , with good reason the lisbon summit could be dubbed historic in terms of its political content .
the ppe-de group and , to the best of my knowledge , the whole of parliament , support the commission ' s work while voicing constructive criticism .
as the imperfections of the single market now also stem from protraction on the part of the member states , the implementation of each of the decisions taken at lisbon will also depend at institutional level above all on whether the member states will stand by the solemn theses of lisbon in the years to come .
madam president , the lisbon summit will mark a milestone .
yet the market economy must necessarily have a social dimension .
i therefore advise all the christian democrats , all the liberals and all the democrats in general who want to see a social market economy , to vote in favour of the resolution proposed by the group of the party of european socialists .
we wish to combine economic efficiency , quality of life and social protection .
i also want to express satisfaction at the fact that the open coordination with which we are familiar from employment policy is to be used as a tool in other areas to promote the use of information technology and reinforce training and strengthen research .
working for common goals in this open and flexible way , in which countries can measure themselves against each other and learn from one another , is a good way both of ensuring progress and , at the same time , of guaranteeing individual countries ' freedom to seek their own solutions to their own problems .
in developing employment policy and combating social exclusion , it is only right to invest not only in economic growth but also in education and training as a way of giving those who are excluded from society a foothold in the labour market and enabling them to help themselves .
finally , i would offer an important and perhaps less complimentary remark .
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , president of the commission , i think it is clear that , in january , when the portuguese presidency issued its first paper , the original impulse was perfectly laudable .
having said that , mr prodi , the real challenge would be if , in coming months , you did not endorse this motion for a resolution , in the event that parliament votes in favour of it tomorrow .
there is not one line on the reports which the commission nonetheless submitted at the european council in helsinki .
not one line on the practical implementation of article 6 of the treaty on european union .
in one of its documents on the integration of financial markets , the commission itself said that such integration was possible only with a minimum of tax regulation .
finally , in social matters , i do not think it wise , mr monti , for the commission to give up any legislative proposals in matters of employment law .
the new economy also involves enabling workers , in the event of company restructuring or necessary discussions about the incorporation of technological innovations in companies , to proceed in decent conditions .
this must also be included in the nice social agenda and we urge you to ensure that this is the case , because my group wishes to see a strong and ambitious commission , and will support you if you take the comments i have just made into account .
if that means that the lisbon summit sanctioned a liberal view of europe , then i must of course , unfortunately , concur with this analysis .
the political difference between us is not a question of whether or not to adopt modern methods , but of what our concept of these modern methods is , particularly on the place and the role which all men and women , bar none , must play , both as workers and as citizens .
these conclusions were presented by the heads of state and government as part of a strategic objective to make the european union the most competitive area in the world within ten years , by developing a knowledge-based economy and adopting policies geared towards growth and full employment .
i could go on , as there are countless conclusions completely identical to those in the 1993 white paper .
there is nevertheless one aspect that deserves a particular mention in the area of policies for full employment .
in 1993 , the objective was to halve the number of unemployed in the european union , from 17 million to 8.5 million .
the fact is that we are now in 2000 , unemployment still stands at 15 million and the summit conclusions promise us rates of almost full employment in ten years ' time .
on the other hand , how is it that there can still be gross disparities in the minimum wage levels of some member states , marked differences in the quality of social security systems and in the value of retirement pensions , and even in levels of unemployment or hidden unemployment , not to mention increasingly widespread pockets of poverty and exclusion ?
in my own country , there is a tradition which differs markedly from the dominant tradition in the european union .
my own country ' s government opposes this , and so do we who are sceptical about this self-fulfilling development within the european union .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , lisbon focused on employment , economic reform and the shift to the digital age .
it is in the interests of the union to clarify relations between austria and the eu .
nobody doubts the importance of preparing the european public for the demands of a society based on information , knowledge , and new communications technologies as strategic weapons , in order to emerge victorious in the future , generating employment with higher-quality work and higher pay .
madam president , i wish to add my warm welcome and congratulations to the presidency on the successful achievement of the lisbon summit .
i think we will come to see in the future that all roads did lead to lisbon via luxembourg , cardiff and cologne , because lisbon should be the end of a process , one that can actually deliver as regards the sort of priorities we want to bring to a successful conclusion throughout the whole of the european union .
the key question is how we turn the conclusions of the lisbon summit into action ; we must ensure that we turn the rhetoric of lisbon into a reality .
i want to look at the challenges that are inherent in the lisbon process for parliament , the commission and , indeed , all three institutions .
in particular , for parliament there is a huge challenge in realising the full legislative implications of completing a single market .
it is a challenge that parliament must rise to , working with the other institutions , commissioner prodi and his colleagues , and the council .
if we do not , nobody will understand or forgive us for not realising our aim .
the reason , as i mentioned before the lisbon summit , relates to those who are in the gallery with us today - the citizens of europe .
to me , lisbon is all about creating a europe of highly-paid , highly-skilled , high-value-added jobs .
if we can achieve that sort of europe from the lisbon process , it will be good for our citizens and for europe as a whole , because what could be more socially just and inclusive than a europe that genuinely benefits from full employment and good jobs that everybody can enjoy ?
now is the time for us as a parliament , the commission and the council to work together to ensure that key is turned . - ( pt ) mr president , mr president of the commission , mr president-in-office , the document adopted at the lisbon summit is rather abstract , and this may mean that it is not implemented equitably .
the council ought to think about this and work towards a real europe . - ( pt ) mr president , the results of the lisbon summit demonstrate that everything the portuguese presidency has up to now presented as a priority for employment and for combating social exclusion has merely been a massive attempt to pull the wool over our eyes .
its supporters may try to make its conclusions look rosy , whether they are talking about the so-called modernisation of the european social model or about the need to make the european union the most competitive area in the world , but they cannot hide their real aims , which are to produce a labour market free from the conditions imposed by legislation designed to protect workers ' rights , to put social security entirely in the hands of the financial markets and to speed up the process of liberalisation in fundamental sectors such as gas , electricity , postal services , transport and telecommunications .
this new method also entails the european council rediscovering its fundamental strategic guidance mission , while allowing the various councils of ministers to take the practical decisions and the commission to prepare and execute policy .
mr president , i decided to speak in this debate when i read the truly excellent analysis of the current situation in europe produced by the european commission before the lisbon summit .
it is true that the lisbon summit also represented something of a sea-change in attitudes towards the global society and in particular towards issues like e-commerce .
at the same time there was a tension in lisbon between the old world of the international socialists and the new world of those who have a slightly wider perspective .
the summit was variously described as a social summit and an e-summit and so on .
the reality is that the european social model is now living in london and she is called laetitia casta .
she is marianne , the symbol of france but taxes in france are now so high that she now has to go and live in london despite the vastly increased taxation under labour .
when i talk about words , i am thinking about words like " bench-marking " and " peer review " .
what actually matters is a light touch on the e-commerce directive , a light touch on telecommunications .
please mr prodi , ignore your friends on the left and stick with the new world not the old world .
at the same time , there are 800 000 highly-skilled jobs in the new economy which cannot be filled due to a lack of skilled human resources .
however , these highways can only be built by the member states , by the public sector and by the european union .
as for the promise to create twenty million jobs in the years to come , this is just as deceitful as it is ridiculous .
mr president , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , on one side of the coin we read that economic growth and employment figures are up , the e-europe action plan is in the pipeline , unemployment is beginning to drop slightly and the economic and employment forecasts are good .
on the other side of the coin , we read that there are still 15 million unemployed , the telecommunications and internet services sector is underdeveloped , there is a widening skills gap in information technology , structural long-term unemployment , too many state monopolies and fetters , competitive disadvantages vis-a-vis the usa and shortcomings in the implementation of european innovations .
mr president , i welcome the lisbon conclusions .
we will be looking very carefully , for example , at how the broad economic guidelines will be prepared , at just how successful the input of the social affairs and employment council will be in emphasising the need for employment and social cohesion when it formulates the broad economic guidelines .
if so , i think we will be disappointed .
further than that , how quickly will the high-level group on the future of social protection begin to move into the realm of a convergence strategy for social protection that this house has called for ?
it should be honest and say that , like us , it has always supported a social market economy .
but as always we want that to be balanced by solidarity and social inclusion .
i am talking about the request to the commission that it contemplate , for 2001 , a coordinated strategy in the legislative field .
at the moment we have , to name but a few , initiatives such as slim , the business test panel , the regulatory policy guidelines and the better law-making report , not to mention the initiatives relating to codification or the quality of legislation .
improving quality must not only be directed at community legislation but also at the legislation of the member states .
in all new legislation we must establish a better balance between ' self regulation ' and ' public regulation ' , in accordance with what , in the conclusions of the lisbon summit , in some initiatives , has been called coregulation .
we must review the ' best business impact ' initiative .
throughout the whole of this exercise , we must take account of the interests of the consumers and the interests of the environment , and these are complicated tasks .
we have to tackle that reform of the treaty .
mr president , congratulations on a particularly focused summit as regards : the clarity of the objectives ; the analysis of the tasks needed to meet those objectives ; and the built-in progress-chasing system .
there was particular emphasis at this summit on the european area of research and innovation , following the excellent communication from commissioner busquin .
we need people who have been disenfranchised in the areas of science and technology - women , older people and particularly those suffering disadvantage - to be on board in the quest for this wider knowledge .
of course , we need new products and we need new processes and we need new ideas about how our society should be run .
we also need new sustainable technologies .
mr president , many commentators have drawn adverse comparisons between the european union and the old soviet union .
it may have been appropriate for the kremlin in the 1960s but it is totally out of place in 21st century europe .
i do not know whether she was speaking for her party , for the parliament or in a personal capacity but i absolutely reject , repudiate and condemn her remarks and am delighted to have this opportunity of publicly dissociating myself from them .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , in january and last month , we were able to congratulate the portuguese presidency on its initiative to hold this special council and on the thorough and conscientious way in which the council had been prepared .
we know how difficult the real world is and how difficult it is to get the european union to agree on a strategic objective .
i would like to express a deep-felt concern here : whilst the presidency , the 15 member states , the president of the commission , the commission itself , the president of the european parliament and a substantial part of this european parliament are agreed on an objective and on a strategic plan , the main group in parliament is deeply divided over what it wants and over which path it should follow in the european union .
we urge the portuguese presidency and the commission to continue in their determination to fight for us to be able to create our own model from the opportunities offered by globalisation , so that the wealth generated can be used to combat poverty and can be more evenly distributed to ensure that social cohesion , full employment and sustainable development will be the outcome - in ten years ' time , but things should steadily improve up to then - of this meeting in lisbon .
secondly , social security .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i feel that it was very important for this debate to be held and to have heard your opinions , your contributions , your points of view and your criticisms for , without such criticism , europe cannot grow .
by setting very clear goals for fiscal policies , in order to gear them towards employment , or by setting goals so that the commission can assess the sustainability of social security policies up to 2020 , the lisbon european council has also established a new social agenda in europe and will even enable the next european council to focus on something that for years the european council has not wished to focus on - a european social agenda .
what is significant is the fact that this was done without any scandal , without any great controversy , and in an absolutely consensual way .
europe is like a huge seed , and its economic strength lies precisely in its tradition of operating in all sectors , both new and traditional , and excelling in the traditional sectors .
this applies to both new and old economies as well .
thank you very much , mr president of the commission .
the cairo summit instituted a mechanism for global dialogue at the highest political level which will enable us to add a new dimension to eu-africa relations which have , until now , been limited either to bilateral frameworks or to regional platforms for dialogue , be they the acp mechanism or the barcelona process .
the first sure indication of its success and of its historic importance was the level of representation of european and african countries : 58 countries - 45 from africa and 13 from europe - were represented at head of state or government level .
this ensured that all issues of common interest to the european union and africa were addressed , and on an equal footing , since both sides had the opportunity to express their concerns and also their common objectives .
in this context , all issues covered by these concerns and objectives - economic , political and development issues - were discussed in a frank and straightforward way .
in economic terms , understanding was reached on the need to define policies which will enable african countries to gain maximum benefit from the liberalisation of trade throughout the world , thus reversing the current trend of consistently and progressively marginalising africa in world trade .
the commitment to reduce world poverty to half its present levels by 2015 was reiterated .
on the important issue of african debt , and despite the fact that at the summit a huge range of countries stated their national policies on this issue , it was stipulated that the bi-regional group of senior officials , which will in the first instance ensure that the summit ' s decisions are implemented , will prepare a report on the debt situation in african countries .
on the other hand , the african countries committed themselves to promote and respect human rights , to eliminate patterns of discrimination against women , to fully support the establishment of the international criminal court and to combat discrimination and intolerance .
other important issues such as education , aids and the environment were addressed under the theme of development , with the understanding that these are essential elements of the challenge of sustainable development in africa and of eradicating poverty .
the bi-regional group of senior officials will prepare a report for assessment at ministerial level of the viability of taking further action in this area .
the last part of the action plan concerns the monitoring mechanisms .
the summit was the first encounter at the highest political level between africa and the countries of the eu .
it will add a new strategic and global dimension to the existing relationship between africa and europe and will bring that relationship to the same level as that we already have with asia and latin america .
the eu has a comparative advantage in regional integration that africa can benefit from , and we will ensure it benefits from it in the coming years , when the organisation of regional economic cooperation will dominate the agenda in africa .
the summit provided an opportunity for useful discussions on debt and other bilateral problems .
it is regrettable that the civil society forum could not take place in cairo but representatives of the forum were received in cairo in the margins of the summit .
the follow-up to the summit should enable the eu to round off its existing relationship with africa with a high-level relationship covering , in particular , a continental approach to political and security questions as well as economic issues .
with the new eu-acp convention being successfully concluded a few months ago and with the eu-south africa cooperation agreement now being implemented as planned , we have two very important additions to the meda cooperation and the barcelona process .
this means that we have not only the perspective of this cairo summit but also a well-established basis to continue , widen and improve our daily work .
the final cairo plan of action is an excellent document if we can now turn words and good intentions into concrete actions .
the top priority of regional cooperation and integration should have strong political benefits as well as trade ones .
many of these countries will need both time and financial help to compete in the world market , but these countries must understand there is no other option in this new era of globalisation .
the oau must be given international support to continue its work and the peace initiatives must come from the african countries themselves .
where peace is achieved , help must be given for demobilisation and reintegration , and the use of child soldiers below the age of 18 must be banned .
ethnic cleansing has been the horror of the last 25 years , and religious wars destroy the very fabric of a country .
this summit was a start but much has to be done to turn words into reality , and we , members of this house , must be part of that new world .
i would like to concentrate on my view that poverty eradication in africa must begin with children and the realisation of children ' s rights .
the cairo summit will be followed up by another forum in dakar on basic education .
therefore , we need to ensure that girls in particular have equal access at least to educational advantage .
the eu should put its political will behind universal primary education by the year 2015 .
julius nyrere , one of africa ' s most famous teachers , in those post-independence , optimistic days , said education is not a way of escaping poverty , it is a way of fighting it .
some of you may be aware that julius nyrere spent his spare time translating shakespeare into swahili .
the benefits for us all will be seen in increased child life expectancy , cuts in population growth and improvements in farm production .
the purpose of the summit was to open a dialogue between the eu and african countries .
i believe that the final document will prove to be an important reference point in connection with further cooperation between the eu and africa .
this is due firstly to the fact that the document in itself constitutes an important signal about increased cooperation between the eu and africa and about the fact that we have not forgotten africa , and secondly to the document ' s emphasis upon the interrelatedness of democracy , politics and economics and upon the fact that africa ' s integration and development should not , therefore , be seen in divided and piecemeal terms but as integral parts of a single whole .
on the contrary , we affirm the political need to restore balance in the relations between african and the european union .
after having plundered the natural resources of africa very widely , and in fact continuing to do so , we must cancel our historical debt to them by cancelling their current debt to our banks .
this would enable us to pursue relations on a sounder basis .
we are asking african countries to respect democratic principles , but we are perpetuating antidemocratic practices in order to guarantee our own financial interests , in the style of elf or total , in a number of countries .
for how can one expect a country in which a quarter of its young people are dying from aids every year to have a booming economy ?
i even think that it was the difficulties along the way that led to the idea that the event should be held in the first place , orthe formal meeting and the group photo , and not what could and should result from it , with a view to establishing a strategy for this partnership on a new footing .
it is obvious that with this kind of outlook and in the light of the enormous problems and shortfalls facing most african countries in terms of the economy , the environment , health , infrastructure , conflict resolution and poverty , amongst others , it is difficult , if not impossible , to cement a genuine partnership which is effective and lasting .
the result was famine in ethiopia , algeria ' s agriculture destroyed , not to mention guinea under sekou toure .
the result was a permanent situation of coup d ' etat , even in the ivory coast .
all in all , from socialist africa to ultraliberal africa , from the european development fund to the world bank , from the summits in bujumbura , addis-ababa , nairobi , casablanca , and now , on 3 april , cairo , it is always the same assessment , the same threesome of poverty , epidemic and massacre .
even so , on 4 january , the un found the final solution , or the miracle cure : a proportion of the 800 million africans would have to emigrate .
the logical thing to do today is to apply to africa what has worked elsewhere , what has worked wonders in our countries , in the united states , in europe , the solution which in our countries created heavy industry , agriculture , the textile industry , the solution which in our countries created growth and sustainable development .
this is a great project , mr president , on the scale of humanity as a whole , and humanity needs both africans and europeans .
mr president , the european union has over the past 25 years invested a great deal of time and effort in development and cooperation .
at the same time , africa needs sound budget management combined with effective social policy , good education policy and sound health care .
if the africa summit in cairo has led to this kind of realism , then we have created more than just a good atmosphere and we are probably on the right track .
mr president , the recent euro-african summit has given rise to concern , even vexation , but at the same time , it has also given rise to satisfaction and hope .
there was vexation on discovering that certain ngo meetings - the fora of civil society - which should have taken place in cairo , sponsored by the european commission itself , could not take place because of communication problems or the veto , still unclarified , of some part or other of the organisation of the summit .
however , i said at the beginning that there were also positive aspects to this cairo summit which were cause for satisfaction and hope .
there was satisfaction at the fact that the conference was able to take place at all - which in itself is a great thing - and we should therefore congratulate the portuguese presidency and commissioner nielson , whose efforts helped to overcome the difficulties , intrigues and lazy defeatism of many people who assumed that this summit would be suspended , although it was going to fill an unjustifiable vacuum in the external relations of the european union .
however , a summit of this type should be an important source of hope , especially if it is not an isolated event but a first step in a process which we must set to work on immediately , in the expectation , furthermore , that relations between the european union and africa are going to change shape .
i am not impressed by the current pattern of african partners requesting aid in order to resolve their problems , as a result of which the european partners merely grant a part of that aid and little more .
mr president , taking this approach , we will vote in favour of the good resolution with which this debate will conclude .
the document is also signed by countries where human rights are being violated on a massive scale , where women are discriminated against , where the little funding that is available is used to massacre other population groups and where corruption has taken on almost ineradicable proportions .
mr president , the first eu-africa summit was an important event and had a great deal of potential for taking meaningful steps to reduce the marginalisation of african countries .
firstly , neither the european parliament nor the eu-acp joint assembly was invited to participate in the summit .
secondly , it is very sad that civil society was not able to have a greater input into the meeting .
the ngos from the eu and african countries took this summit very seriously and it was a missed opportunity not to engage in more meaningful dialogue with them .
civil society has a key role to play in africa ' s development process .
what we have is a plan full of warm words and good intentions but short on firm commitments , in particular on trade issues .
while it is nice to recall the eu ' s important decision to grant duty-free access for essentially all products , it would have been even more significant to have gone beyond the famous " essentially all " to include those products of real importance to the poorest countries , such as agricultural goods .
a majority of african countries are overwhelmingly dependent on just one or two commodities for the bulk of their foreign exchange earnings .
mr president , wanting to achieve relations on the basis of partnership between the old continent and africa means first of all putting a halt to the present system which operates to benefit the great powers and the corrupt elite of the south .
the continent of africa is ravaged by epidemics such as the aids epidemic and by wars that are conspicuous , or sometimes forgotten .
the result is there is never enough fish and there are increasing numbers of people fighting over the leftovers .
in all its negotiations , the european union should also demand fighting against corruption , certainly , and for democracy but , in return , african countries can also demand that the friends of le pen , haider and martinez should stop making regular racist attacks on their populations resident in europe .
finally , mr president , europe too made its wealth from colonialism and slavery .
europe thus has a moral debt towards africa .
but how much more credible would words such as democracy and the interest of the people have been if those people had actually been represented .
in that sense , cairo was not a euro-african summit but more like a summit of elites .
it is also significant insofar as its conclusions could not have been more feeble .
it has been noted that it had been prepared hurriedly , as a cosmetic exercise , without taking responsibility for the past and without preparing comprehensive and solid programmes on the future of relations between the european union and africa .
it is truly illogical to lament the constant instability and warfare , when there is a real battle for power and control of resources in africa which , in turn , increases the cycle of poverty and sends waves of immigrants towards europe .
it does not help matters if , instead of attending working meetings , one prefers to talk to gadaffi for 10 minutes .
i think that we , the european parliament , must continue to denounce these national solo efforts and increase the responsibility of member states ' governments .
it has been stated that we want to make a large contribution and take part in a much more far-reaching debt burden initiative , provided we can link this in with social development .
i hope that our budget for 2001 - and the commissioner is only too aware how heavy this weighs on me , because i am the budget rapporteur for that component - will also accommodate some of these promises .
if 45 million children in africa have never seen a schoolroom before and if we managed to double the education budget next year - not the budget as a whole but if we simply shifted some figures around - then this would be a welcome bonus .
however , as a member of the committee on development and cooperation , i must express my reservations at the lack of support from the european parliament .
i also condemn the fact that agenda 2000 did not tackle the issue of the future responsibilities of the european union towards developing countries .
parliament has tried to tackle this issue several times in the past , apparently without ever achieving tangible results .
mr president , ordinary people in most african countries are poorer today than when their countries became independent .
such desperate people cannot think of democracy and human rights in the way we do from our houses and leafy suburbs in the west .
we here in this assembly offer these people open and free access to our eu markets .
well , let it be said that there were even problems in including references to the acp group in the final conclusions .
firstly , because this was seen as the first major rapprochement between africa and europe and not all africa ' s countries are acp countries .
there was therefore a problem in accommodating within one summit , which i repeat was a summit of equals , not a summit of parties of a different status , an institution which the other co-sponsoring organisation did not have .
when we prepare the next summit , the 2003 summit , we will certainly look at ways of strengthening the european parliament ' s participation in a framework that must take account of the other party , given that the other party exists .
another important point is debt .
i would remind you of the commitment given by member states in relation to the world ' s highly indebted poor countries to reduce and even cancel their debt , not forgetting the union ' s eur 1 000 million contribution to this programme .
it is the first time that the european union has agreed to discuss the problem of their indebtedness with all the african countries , in an institutional framework outside the international financial organisations .
the african countries considered this to be one of the most important milestones of this summit .
i should tell you that the aim of the portuguese presidency of the european union was to do something for africa , not just because we had done something for other continents or regions , such as latin america and asia , but also because other countries or groups of countries , such as the united states , japan and even china had begun to do so before us .
we are working to review the mediterranean strategy , to produce a rigorous draft of the euro-mediterranean charter for peace and stability and also to review the meda ii regulation .
we held the mediterranean forum in funchal and we will be holding an informal ministerial meeting in lisbon on the barcelona process , specifically to determine its good and bad points , on what needs to be improved and to prepare the summit which will be held under the french presidency .
of course , we did not resolve all the problems of the african continent overnight , but a step needed to be taken , a step towards including africa in the european agenda .
mrs kinnock mentioned the forthcoming meeting in dakar on basic education .
as part of our preparations for that meeting i have gone through the bulk of what we are doing on primary education in africa and i am happy to say that i am in a position to express something positive about what i have seen in the commission .
this is not to say that we could not do more but it is much better than the picture in general .
in absolute terms , our focusing on kosovo and other activities has not meant a reduction in what we actually do in africa .
in relative terms this is the case , but we have been able to shield africa from direct reductions in the volume of what we are doing .
if we look at total official development assistance , globally it has in fact decreased .
against that background it is a privilege to represent the european union internationally in this field because we have not been part of that downward trend .
this parliament , our budget , and our activities stand out as a sort of corrective measure to the global trend .
the eur 680 million , which is our contribution as a donor , not as a creditor , will all be directed to the african development bank earmarked in the special trust fund in the hipc initiative in order to bail out africa and make it possible for the african development bank to continue servicing the poor countries in africa .
we are doing quite a lot and the problem now is to what extent the g7 countries - who started up the hipc ii initiative in cologne last year - will deliver , not just as donors but in their more narrowly defined role as creditors .
mr zimmerling mentioned the problem of nigeria and getting money back .
this should be part of international economic governance .
it was of real importance that the heads of state and governments spent two days together .
they certainly developed quite well in those two days .
that concludes the debate .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
external relations package the next item is the commission communication on the external relations package .
mr president , we discussed a number of issues in the commission today , including the broad economic policy guidelines which have been the subject of a statement by my colleague commissioner solbes elsewhere in parliament during the course of the afternoon .
briefly though , i will first of all mention our communication on election observation and assistance , which we will now be publishing and which i will look forward to discussing with parliament over the coming weeks and months .
we have spent eur 150 million on this important activity .
it is now clearly a first- pillar activity following the adoption of the regulations , which provide a legal basis for human rights and democratisation activity .
as members of parliament will recognise , the communication invites both parliament and the council to work with us on a more coordinated approach .
it suggests that we need greater coherence in what we are doing and i am looking forward to hearing the views of members of parliament on the document , which i hope they will regard as an important and useful contribution to a debate which is going to become more important , not less important , over the coming years .
it is the rapid reaction facility , which we have been discussing for some time and on which we have come to some conclusions .
my colleague , commissioner nielson , was talking a moment or two ago about the eu-african summit in cairo just over a week ago .
it is true that the president of the commission , my colleagues pascal lamy and poul nielson and myself were all confronted during that summit with a litany of complaints about the slow delivery of european union assistance .
but the traditional legislative approach to community business is also sometime ill-suited to the fast changing realities in external relations .
this is particularly true for conflict prevention and it is particularly true for crisis management efforts .
we will present our proposals in the next few weeks .
the rapid reaction facility is something that in our judgement we can do fairly quickly if we have the support of parliament and if we have the support of the council .
i hope that support will be forthcoming because we have time to lose .
the helsinki european council called on us , in the context of development of the union 's crisis management structures within the esdp , to set up a mechanism for rapid reaction .
inertia is only part of our problem today .
the rapid reaction facility responds to these needs .
it is intended to allow us to draw without delay on existing community resources and expertise to address specific crisis situations , complementing the valuable work already undertaken by echo in the humanitarian field .
fourth , the management of the rapid reaction facility will be the responsibility of a small team , the crisis coordination unit in the directorate-general for external relations .
the added value of the rapid reaction facility is speed and flexibility in community intervention in crisis situations .
it will help us to overcome procedural hurdles which have slowed us down in the past and it will allow for the combination of several instruments within a single action and for a single purpose .
it will allow us to react in time and if necessary , to take the initiative in urgent circumstances .
if it needs to be pursued beyond the immediate time frame of the crisis situation , it should be taken over as soon as practicable by the regular geographic or thematic community instrument most suited to manage it in the longer term .
that is why the commission proposes a rather modest budget allocation for the rapid reaction facility : about eur 30 million for this year and eur 40 million for subsequent years .
my own favourite economist and guru , jane jacobs , points out that everything is disappointing in practice .
i think members of this house will have sometimes been frustrated to discover that , on the basis of european union funding , people from other countries , even north america , and some other countries are getting all the credit and none is coming to the european taxpayer who pays for all these things .
image is important and we have addressed it in this document .
another factor is the participation of the european union under the umbrella of other international actors .
anybody who thinks that we do not need one should just try talking to our officials who were operating pillar 4 in unmik in kosovo .
it is one of the oldest saws in the book that it is incomparably more expensive to fight a war than to keep the peace .
very often what is required to keep the peace or to prevent a crisis is not just doing things generously but doing them quickly and generously .
we are currently in the middle of a conciliation procedure for the late payment directive , in other words , this is not just a problem in external relations ; it is also a problem within europe .
the idea is that the late payment directive could also be applied in these areas .
firstly , although i recognise that he wants to keep the budget small and use existing instruments , is he satisfied that the budget in category 4 is sufficient for the special rapid reaction unit to be able to carry out its objectives over the course of a financial year ?
the high representative and his colleagues in the secretariat are bending their best efforts to try to achieve that at the moment .
we have had problems which should not have arisen because we have not always known in sufficient detail exactly what member states , as well as the european commission , are up to .
so we need to work more closely and in a more coordinated way .
on the relationship between the rapid reaction facility and the special envoys who are , of course , responsible to the council - even though we are responsible for the budget - we will want to work closely with them .
there are some in particular whose activities bear on the sort of things we might find ourselves wanting to support through the rapid reaction facility , like the work being done by one of our special envoys in the great lakes region in africa .
i do not think that the sums of money that we are talking about are going to give us budgetary problems .
we can manage eur 30 or 40 million .
the appalling floods in mozambique were a classic case for intervention by echo as a humanitarian intervention .
it is very difficult to compartmentalise these crises .
but the honourable member is entirely right to say that mozambique was a demonstration of the extent to which the various forms of intervention are interwoven and that it is very difficult to make precise categories out of different forms of support .
the question of coherence is very important .
but one has to bear in mind two important facts about echo .
i very much hope that , without breaking down some important distinctions , we can ensure that the community 's various instruments , which involve the expenditure of quite substantial amounts of assistance , are moving together in the same direction .
the problems in the great lakes region cover a number of countries .
it would be useful if you could link these problems on a regional basis and act from that point .
i believe that we should be looking much more constructively at regional solutions in a lot of other areas as well , not least some of our trade relationships with other countries .
this facility has to be used not just on a bilateral basis but in helping groups of countries with what are often common political problems , as well as environmental and other problems .
we have a situation in ethiopia where we knew for the past three years that there was a famine coming .
the committee on development and cooperation and myself have time and time again warned echo and the commission that something should be done about this .
i feel rather strongly that we have managed over the years , despite problems from time to time , to increase our ability to get food and other assistance to people in the most appallingly difficult circumstances .
we have managed to increase our ability to deliver humanitarian assistance .
there is a food crisis in the horn of africa .
so i hope i catch your eye tomorrow in the debate and make some of these points .
however , i have to say that i was dealing with these problems 13 or 14 years ago and , alas , much less has happened to the good than one would have liked .
therefore , we will be working from seven until eight .
the first part , questions to the commission , will last 30 minutes .
we will dedicate 10 minutes to each commissioner , instead of the usual 20 minutes .
the commission shares the view that its participation in meetings of the council and all its bodies is part of the eu acquis and an essential element of the european union institutional framework .
excluding the commission from work in this area would be tantamount to accepting the emergence of a fourth pillar in the treaty , contrary to the helsinki conclusions .
but although the commission has a right to attend all working structures in the council , it does not have an obligation to do so .
in cases like these , i think that it is not only natural but in everyone 's interests that the commission should participate in the meeting in order to contribute to the overall coherence and effectiveness of european union policies and actions .
may i ask him to confirm that the commission 's choice not to participate in certain meetings will be taken , as he put it , on a ' meeting by meeting ' basis , not a structure by structure basis , depending on what is being discussed .
the question is whether the choice is meeting by meeting or structure by structure and we have made it gently and courteously but firmly clear what our view is of the matter .
secondly , has the commission drawn any conclusions as to the security implications of its participation in the military committee ?
thank you very much , mr patten .
question no 32 by ( h-0293 / 00 ) : subject : ability of dialysis-dependent people to travel in the eu the free movement of member states ' citizens in the eu is a fundamental right .
in order to ease the situation of temporarily resident dialysis patients and rectify the possible lack of clarity in the definition of emergency treatment , the member states have agreed on special rules which are laid down in decision no 163 of the administrative commission of the european communities on social security for migrant workers of 31 may 1996 .
it is not therefore up to the commission to intervene here and to influence national rules on the modus operandi of hospitals and clinics in the member states .
however , if such an application is submitted , it will be examined in accordance with the procedure provided for in regulation no 2082 / 92 on certificates of special character for agricultural products and foodstuffs .
we must endeavour to allay this concern , and i therefore feel , should the manufacturers of a member state so request , of course , that within the white paper on food safety and in other ways , the commission should consider protecting chocolate which is produced according to traditional methods without additional vegetable oil as a high quality european product , and refuse to set the lowest level as the standard , for this may be permitted by the market , but it is not acceptable in terms of the quality of the produce and the lives of our consumers .
mr president , mr napoletano , as i said , no chocolate producer has yet demonstrated any interest in this form of protection .
however , in order to clarify matters somewhat as you have requested , i should point out to you that the regulation which i quoted makes provision for two possible forms of legal protection for names .
the commissioner actually answered my question in the second part of his answer .
we take note of your statement in favour of good chocolate , mrs banotti .
question no 35 by ( h-0307 / 00 ) : subject : children 's rights given the reports of sexual abuse , of child prostitution and the high number of young children living on the streets of the candidate countries from eastern europe , what measures are being taken by the commission to ensure within the framework of the present accession negotiations , that children 's rights and child protection are a priority and that the welfare of children is taken into account when preparing these countries for future membership of the european union ?
this is not a problem specific to the candidate countries of the european union .
it is quite clearly a development problem , a problem which stems from poverty , a problem which stems from social neglect and , i believe , a problem which stems from the indifference or lack of decisiveness in our societies to really do something to fight this terrible manifestation of child abuse .
allow me to tell you what we can do within the framework of accession negotiations .
the most important of these is the joint action to fight the trade in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children , on which a decision was reached on 24 february 1997 .
programmes such as phare and meda and the relevant specific programmes relating to justice and internal affairs such as grotius , stop , odysseus and falcone also offer the opportunity to support countries seeking to join the union in this respect and support is indeed given .
the following programmes are relevant to child protection : first the daphne programme approved on 24 january 2000 .
the whole problem could not have arisen and would not exist were there no demand for this horrendous supply in our rich societies , including in the member states of the european union .
the fact that something has been broadcast on the bbc does not automatically mean that it is true .
it is therefore difficult for me to answer your specific question as to whether children are being bred in romania for the purpose of sexual abuse with a clear yes or no .
what i can say is that , as parliament ' s hearing on the subject of children in romania has demonstrated over recent weeks in brussels , the commission is doing absolutely everything in its power to improve the lot of children in romania .
i assure the honourable member that we are doing far more than is our duty and , in fact , far more that what is actually politically permissible within the framework of accession negotiations .
i do , however , admit that we are doing so because , in my view , it is also a human rights issue which must be considered in accordance with the political criteria governing accession .
in the area of police cooperation , the commission wishes to remind honourable members that in 1996 europol was given a mandate by the council to combat trafficking in human beings , with the basic aim of ensuring that all networks of traffickers working in europe would be closed down .
finally , the commission also wishes to emphasise that through the stop and daphne programmes , it has already funded numerous cooperation and training projects in the area of combating trafficking in human beings , specifically against the trafficking of women for sexual exploitation , and through these programmes has brought together the relevant bodies , namely police and judicial authorities , non-governmental organisations and social services .
the commission intends in the course of 2000 to present the european parliament with a new legal basis for the stop programme for the period 2001-2005 .
under this new legal basis for stop , we will also be able to fund projects for combating trafficking in human beings submitted by non-governmental organisations and by public authorities from the applicant countries themselves .
lastly , concerning the specific situation in albania , the commission acknowledges that networks trafficking in human beings originating in the balkans represent a major concern , due to the increasing number of cases being seen in european countries .
we therefore acknowledge the fact that under the stability pact for the balkans , priority must be given to combating trafficking in human beings .
i can even answer the honourable member by saying that a group of experts is already working on identifying the best actions for combating the networks of traffickers in human beings and that i myself had an opportunity recently , on a mission to greece , to exchange ideas with the greek minister for home affairs , in order enlist the cooperation of his government in establishing these actions and priorities , bearing in mind the action that greece is already developing bilaterally on the trafficking of human beings in the balkans .
in fact , establishing normal economic and social conditions throughout the balkans is an essential instrument in combating social exclusion and thus combating trafficking in human beings .
in any event , the commission acknowledges that there are no completely reliable statistics on the volume of the annual traffic in human beings , and i can tell you that we have been working very hard on improving the coordination and circulation of information between the member states ' police forces and europol so that we have a more accurate and realistic picture of the size of the problem .
with regard to campaigns , i must tell the honourable member that the commission ' s assessment is that the prevention campaigns have been successful in the sense that they have significantly not only raised awareness of the risks and the dangers of trafficking in human beings in the countries of origin , but they have also enjoyed the cooperation and commitment of the police and judicial authorities in the applicant countries .
therefore , in application of the said recommendations , we will allow just one supplementary question per subject and only 30 seconds , which may extend to 35 , but no more , in order to reformulate the questions .
mr president , mrs izquierdo rojo , reconstruction in kosovo and the stabilisation of south-eastern europe are among the most important tasks facing the european union over the next few years .
the resolution on agenda 2000 was taken , i would remind you , on the same day that the war in kosovo broke out .
in the interinstitutional agreement on the financial perspectives concluded between parliament , the council and the commission in may 1999 , parliament and the council decided to call on the commission , in view of developments in the balkans , to submit the necessary budgetary proposals , if necessary in the form of a proposal to revise the financial perspectives .
in the external aid area , on the other hand , the figures in the financial perspectives would have resulted in a reduction in expenditure next year in comparison with this year and i think that everyone is agreed that this does not really reflect the actual situation and actual requirements .
the commission therefore decided to propose a redeployment of eur 300 billion to the budgetary authority so that the increase in agricultural expenditure would be correspondingly lower .
all of this demonstrates that agenda 2000 has been nothing but a great firework display .
mr patten and mr nielson have come to the conclusion that a total of eur 1.6 billion could be redeployed in the external aid area for south-eastern europe and i think that we really must acknowledge that this step has been taken .
i should also point out that the commission will propose that even the expenditure budgeted for promoting and developing the countryside be increased to its ceiling next year .
question no 38 by ( h-0287 / 00 ) : subject : structural measures to overcome delays in payments the eu budget is failing in that commitment authorisations are not being adequately matched by payments .
questions to mr kinnock mr president , the commission is doing its utmost to settle proper payment applications within 60 days .
the commission submitted a working paper to the budgetary authority last year in which it made a comprehensive analysis of developments , broken down by sector and underlying factors , and suggested remedies .
however , the commission is unable to subscribe to the honourable member ' s view that delays in implementing community projects robs them of any legitimate purpose ; on the contrary .
this applied to a sum of around eur 1 billion in 1999 .
the commission has discussed precisely this today as part of the debate on the revision of the financial regulation and i can assure you that we intend to change the rules in order to tighten up the time scale .
thank you very much , mrs schreyer .
in his question the honourable member is probably referring to actions 57 and 58 of the reform strategy action plan which , amongst other things , specifies commitment to making proposals for the establishment of an interinstitutional disciplinary board .
the commission will be presenting detailed proposals for the modernisation of disciplinary procedures and related arrangements in a consultative document which is scheduled for publication in october .
consultation on those proposals is a legal requirement and the views of parliament and member states , as well as those of the staff , will naturally be taken into account on all relevant matters , including the possible use of external expertise on the interinstitutional disciplinary board .
so far as whistle-blowing is concerned , and as the honourable member may know , we will be putting forward very comprehensive proposals for radical change in current arrangements which will , when they are implemented - hopefully with the assistance of this parliament as a legislature - provide the european union institutions with the best , fairest and most effective system for ensuring that the duty of officials to report their suspicions of wrong-doing will be fully accessible and made totally effective .
question no 41 by ( h-0342 / 00 ) : subject : institutional reform at present , ' whistle-blowing ' means that a member of the commission staff has to breach articles 12 and 17 of the staff regulations , accordingly , if someone does come forward as a whistle-blower , he / she will almost certainly be disciplined .
point 47 of your action plan makes reference to this situation but offers no remedy for it .
it follows that articles 12 and 17 of the staff regulations do not prevent staff from reporting wrong-doing either within the commission or to olaf .
in the white paper on reform and elsewhere , the commission has made direct commitments to reforms which will further improve rules related to the reporting of suspected wrong-doing .
the commission will present detailed proposals in a document scheduled for october of this year .
firstly , the development of the proposals relating to whistle-blowing will take full account of best practice in several of the member states .
the commission is acutely aware of the provision long established in nordic democracies , recently developed also in the public disclosure act in the united kingdom , and several other comparable pieces of legislation .
as far as mr van buitenen is concerned , he took up employment on 1 april in the directorate-general for health and consumer protection in luxembourg in a very responsible job , as the house would expect .
we thank vice-president kinnock for his replies .
as the authors are not present , questions nos 44 to 48 lapse .
question no 49 by ( h-0284 / 00 ) : subject : møllergardens vivaldi - a shetland pony the committee on petitions decided on 15 may 1997 to examine a case concerning the shetland pony , møllergardens vivaldi , from denmark , which the swedish authorities refused to register as a stallion in sweden .
the dispute between what i might describe as a courageous private breeder from one member state and a breeding association in another member state , reflects shortcomings in implementation by member states of both the spirit and letter of related community law , in particular directive 90 / 427 on zootechnical and genealogical conditions governing intra-community trade in equidae .
however , in the light of new information , the commission undertakes to take up the case again and to arrange for a zootechnical inspection mission , should this be required .
it is a matter costing an incredible amount of money .
it is not really the role of the commission to develop this issue further but it is doing so in the manner i have indicated in an effort to assist the private breeder who - i perfectly agree with you - should not be compelled to have to go through these steps to seek a result in this particular issue .
as i have indicated , in the light of new information , the commission undertakes to take up this case again and , if necessary , to arrange for a zootechnical inspection mission , should this be required .
we had group meetings ; i was watching the screen and you jumped from question 41 to 49 .
mrs mckenna , today ' s question time has been ratified by the plenary in this house .
i am therefore very sorry that we now have to conclude question time .
since the time allotted to questions to the commission has elapsed , questions nos 50 to 93 will be replied to in writing .
there had been no meeting of the association council between turkey and the union for three years and nor had there been any meeting of this kind after the deliberations and the criteria laid down in helsinki .
hence the importance of holding the screening procedure that is being prepared and the importance of turkey ' s commitment to incorporating the body of community legislation and also to respecting the copenhagen criteria .
in our political dialogue with the turkish delegation , we were able not only to assess the progress made , but also to comment on what we felt were shortcomings at institutional and judicial level and also in terms of the actual implementation of economic policies .
this progress in the bilateral relationship will have considerable influence on progress on this issue in the future , on the relationship between the two countries and will certainly contribute , as will these negotiations between the european union and turkey , to establishing a favourable framework and environment for a solution to the problem of cyprus .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i welcome today ' s debate as an opportunity to take stock , four months after the helsinki summit and in the run up to the association council which the president-in-office has already spoken about .
the copenhagen political criteria concern democracy , the rule of law , human rights and the protection of minorities .
the main element in this strategy of rapprochement will be the accession partnership which is currently being prepared and which will set out the short- and medium-term priorities which turkey must meet , in accordance with the copenhagen criteria , in the political , economic and community acquis areas .
we plan to submit the first accession partnership in the autumn of this year .
for example , 18 members of the pro-kurdish hadep party were sentenced to three years and nine months in prison and three leading members of hadep were taken into custody but then released shortly afterwards .
the three mayors who support hadep were released after the eu troika had expressed its serious concerns to the turkish government .
the commission seriously regrets that akin birdal , an advocate of the peaceful solution of conflict and human rights , has been thrown into jail once again .
i hope that turkey can cultivate social dialogue and an active labour market policy still further in order to underpin the adjustment process .
of course i shall continue to keep you informed of all aspects of these new endeavours .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , your statements have reinforced a belief and an impression i have .
the public and private sector spokesmen we recently met in turkey all readily agreed on this .
my feeling is that certain representatives of the turkish people are discovering , as a result of december ' s decision , that accession to the union will mean not only drastic reform of their institutions , but also radical changes in mindsets .
this is reflected in the distrust shown , as the commissioner has just reported , towards european institutions in general and the representatives of the european parliament in particular .
firstly , there was the refusal of the request to visit leyla zana , which resulted in the postponement of the meeting of the joint european union-turkey parliamentary committee scheduled for 22 and 23 february .
then , on the same day , at a time when your rapporteur was in ankara , there was the arrest of three kurdish mayors from the south-eastern region .
lastly , on 28 march , there was the arrest and reimprisonment of akin birdal , president of the turkish association for the defence of human rights , at a time when a delegation from this parliament was visiting turkey .
this is what parliament will once again underline in the resolution , which is to be submitted for the approval of the members next thursday , urging the turkish government and the political parties of turkey to turn to good account the constitutional review that is currently in progress in order to implement pressing reforms , in line with the helsinki agreements , that will enable the turkish state to guarantee the democratic rights that we consider essential .
the ball is in turkey ' s court .
it is up to turkey to decide whether the first obstacles encountered on this new road are to prove insurmountable or not .
we meps are particularly pleased because most of us - and this cut across all groups in the house - expressed our scepticism as to whether the helsinki resolution was the right resolution at the time .
he has spoken of democracy , the rule of law and the protection of minorities as three basic elements in the expectations which the european union , the commission , the council and the european parliament have of turkey and which they have formulated .
four months after helsinki , commissioner , i can say on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists that we fully subscribe to your view that the climate surrounding relations has improved but no progress has been made on the three points which you listed .
we in the european parliament expect far greater efforts than those made so far and we are assuming that what we are saying in this debate here will not go unheeded .
mr president , when turkey joins the european union the impact and the benefits will be considerable .
the eu will then have to adjust , and in a welcoming way .
the arrest and imprisonment of hadep leaders like sakharov prize-winner leyla zana and human rights campaigner akin birdal is an impediment to turkey 's progress to the eu .
the former president of the turkish human rights association , akin birdal , is again under arrest , despite the fact that he requires medical care .
unfortunately , he must serve another six months of a one-year sentence .
we realise that the measures needed to guarantee the permanent democratisation of turkish society cannot be introduced overnight .
however , a number of small steps are urgently needed in order to demonstrate that turkey is prepared to take the path trodden by spain , portugal and greece .
i should like to list a few examples .
then the former and present leaders of hadep , murat bozlak and ahmet turan demir , were sentenced to three years and nine months in prison together with 18 other members of hadep .
having been there , my personal impression is that the people are longing for peace and democracy .
mr president , all of us who have visited turkey recently realise that the picture is very complex .
there is a very lively debate in the country .
that is what is working against democratic fighters such as akin birdal .
but we also see the reformists who know very well what has to be done according to the copenhagen criteria .
one party leader said to us that at least 65 articles of the constitution and penal code had to be changed .
the first was that nothing will prevail without a strong civil society in turkey .
people we met from civil society also said they appreciated the help from the european union , but that some of it was slow .
mr president , the question of whether or not turkey belongs to europe is not primarily a geographical issue , nor is it primarily an economic one .
the deciding factor , however , will be whether or not turkey will subscribe to a european set of values in which human rights , democracy and the protection of minorities are guaranteed .
the political solution to the kurdish issue would not only liberate the kurds , it would also take a heavy weight from turkey ' s shoulders .
whether or not turkey will join may therefore depend largely on how it will fare in matters pertaining to human rights , democracy and the protection of minorities .
i should like to point out that in helsinki , greece withdrew its reservations and turkey became a candidate country .
i just wonder who have they been trying to liberate for the last 25 years , and from whom ?
the structures are superb , we can all agree on that .
the turks tell us they need time , they need a great deal of time , because this reform can only be achieved one step at a time .
i told you that numerous fellow members here in this very house , in the european parliament , were prepared to allow as much time as they needed , 200 years , 400 years , even more .
but i belong to a group which enthusiastically helped turkey to achieve candidate status , not just so that turkey could be a candidate but to give turkey a real chance to become a member and start negotiations .
the unequivocal shortcomings in this area contrast with statements by prime minister ecevit to the effect that turkey may be ready to start accession negotiations in 2004 .
however , one has the impression that anti-european forces within the army and the administration are behind the recent arrests and the new offensive against the pkk in northern iraq in order to prevent turkey from moving closer to europe .
this demonstrates in retrospect that the concessions made to turkey in helsinki were perhaps premature and that the strategy towards this country , which is so important to western security , needs to be reviewed .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i have visited turkey three times in the last six months , once before and twice after the helsinki resolution .
what ecevit said to us was that there were several kurdish dialects and that he could even imagine kurdish being used as an official language in turkey under certain conditions .
my last point is this : of course we are also aware in this house that the question of turkey , including its relations with greece , is bound up with the cyprus issue .
turkey will not be admitted to the european union without the european parliament ' s approval .
turkey has merely been recognised as a candidate .
in fact , as long ago as 1963 , the ankara agreement established the possibility that turkey might join the european union , with the association agreement to evolve through an initial stage , a transitional stage and a final stage .
the commission is involved in bilateral discussions with turkey in order to provide it with information on the acquis communautaire .
however , something that can be acknowledged today is that , contrary to what used to happen in crisis situations , when turkey was always tempted to use military power or to use extremist internal forces , thanks to the guidelines and the frameworks that were laid down in helsinki , this strategy has contributed in turkey to the consolidation of pro-european forces , which will , of course , have to develop a completely pro-european programme in terms of constitutional reform , political changes and new legislation .
i have drawn the turkish government ' s , the turkish parties ' and the turkish parliament ' s attention to the role of the european parliament in ensuring that no political compromises are made with candidates during access negotiations and in turkey ' s preparations for access negotiations which contradict the copenhagen criteria .
but i do know one thing and that is that a debate is currently taking place in turkey of which we only hear a part , a debate which will decide on the fate of the country and , partly on the fate of europe too .
the debate is closed .
it would , we hope , give us a new tough set of rules that would ensure that genetically modified crops and other gmo products are used throughout europe in a safe and sensible way that ensures protection of the environment and guarantees the safety of public health .
the first and the most important is the issue of producer liability .
in other words , under the terms of the amendments , companies would be required to take out insurance to cover any possible damage to human health or the environment caused by gmos and could be sued if their crops escaped and created super-wheats or contaminated organic crops or if gm crops were found to damage human health .
i hope that tomorrow my colleagues will renew their support , as they did at first reading , for the demands for strong new limits on the use of gmos containing genes with resistance to antibiotics .
tomorrow we may take a softer line , but nevertheless we want to see action in this area .
other measures that i think we need - and on which i would seek the support of the parliament tomorrow - include new measures to restrict the dangers of the cross-breeding of gmo plants with naturally occurring wild relatives .
here we need to go to at least as far and perhaps beyond the measures agreed in the bio-safety protocol in montreal in january .
not just the industry but also friends of the earth and greenpeace have given their backing to various aspects of parliament 's report .
they have supported us in continuing to press the council of ministers to agree on new gmo rules on licensing as quickly as possible , to bring to an end the de facto moratorium on new gmo commercial approvals , which has been in operation since the commission published its proposal almost two years ago .
that should give biotechnology companies and others involved in the industry a clear idea of the rules that they have adhere to and consequently a more transparent and predictable regime .
that can be only good for the future development of this new technology within the european union .
at the same time , i would hope that our governments will be able to assure their consumers and their people that gmos released into the environment anywhere in europe will meet the much more stringent standards that we are fixing here in parliament tomorrow and that the public concerns regarding the protection of human health and the environment from the dangers of gmo inventions have been properly addressed .
and i hope one of the significant non-legislative outcomes of this process will be a shift in the balance of power in the approval and control of gmo crops and food in favour of the public .
for the biotechnology industry that can only be to the good .
i even have mixed feelings about the announcements which we heard last week on the almost complete decoding of the human genome because i think that we do not yet have enough strict rules in the european union on the application of biotechnology to human beings in this way .
i think it is a very competent piece of work , and i think some important improvements have been made to the common position .
if insurance cannot be taken out to cover such circumstances , then the risk in granting a licence is too great .
i hope we shall see the adoption of these amendments designed to tighten up on the common position .
mr president , i would like to stress that this is a debate on procedural questions regarding the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms , or gmos .
thirdly , we would welcome a streamlined procedure that offers security to both consumers and producers and , as far as we are concerned , better harmonisation throughout the european union .
we , too , would like to congratulate the diligent rapporteur on this report .
mr president , tomorrow ' s vote will be a litmus test of parliament ' s responsibility and credibility .
this means that we shall be voting in favour of most , but not all , of the proposals in the bowe report .
mr president , the proposal for a directive on procedures for the authorisation of genetically modified organisms has been returned to this house for second reading , even though events since the first reading have done nothing but heighten the fears that we originally expressed .
on 11 february 1999 , at first reading , we opposed this proposal since we considered that it in no way controlled the risks that gmos pose to the environment and to animal and human health and that a straightforward application of the precautionary principle should have resulted if not in the definitive prohibition of the release of these organisms , at least in a moratorium lasting several years .
we are thus delighted that the council has underlined this principle in the common position .
both in the main body of the directive itself , notably in article 1 , and in its application , the precautionary principle has been accorded an important role when it comes to weighing it up against economic interests .
i mainly have the restriction of the simplified procedure and the attention to gmo traceability in mind .
the biotechnology debate requires an integral ethical approach .
mr president , this is a debate about plant research and plant protection from research .
it is a debate about the potential of gmos for good and their potential for risk , and how you manage that risk .
but we must respond to public concern about the potential and unknown dangers to our environment , to our food chain and to our health .
thirdly , we must build on the montreal protocol as far as the export of gmos is concerned , and this should be done on the basis of mutual agreement and transparency .
fourthly , as many members have said , we must ensure liability ; but it is a question of whether we need any greater liability than applies to other environmental risks .
secondly , the commitment to international agreements .
amendment no 1 refers to the montreal protocol and the need to defend biosafety and the consultation of and request for authorisation from non-eu countries for exports .
thirdly , the civil liability clause , which is clearly necessary for those who are responsible for the release of these genetically modified organisms which may have effects on health or the environment .
in the short time available , i appeal to the commission and , indeed , parliament to urgently expedite the conclusions necessary to allay consumer fears concerning the public health , environmental and ethical aspects of a technology which has the potential to make a significant contribution to food production and public health .
an indication of the potential of genetic research to make a positive contribution to food production is demonstrated by the very recent announcement by monsanto of a significant breakthrough on the genetic structure of rice , which is the staple food on which millions in the developing world depend and about which there is considerable concern with regard to the continuity of supply .
we totally agree with the line of thinking adopted in this report .
lastly , the risks to the environment should be assessed via an annual cost-benefit analysis of these gmo releases , carried out in a transparent manner and extended to cover animal and plant health as well as public and private goods .
it is also important for provision to be made for the directive to be adjusted and amended in line with new developments resulting from the fast pace of change in biotechnology and its applications .
we must not overreact if we want this directive to promote and support such a promising sector .
if liability pertaining to gene food is not regulated now , suspicion among the public regarding this type of food will only grow .
mr president , genetic engineering and biotechnology are the key technologies of the future .
if we in the eu hamper or even block the use of genetically modified organisms , we shall be manoeuvring ourselves into a backwater in this important area .
the commission promised the introduction of horizontal legislation over ten years ago .
but even though we now have a white paper , the actual legislation is some years away .
thousands of people across europe have chosen not to buy products containing gmos because of the evidence of health and environmental damage .
the basis for meeting these new challenges has to be an efficient and transparent legislative framework .
our role as european policymakers should be to provide for a balanced response to these new challenges .
we need a regulatory framework , based on safety and the precautionary principle which ensure a high level of protection for human health and environment .
at the same time , it has to allow society to benefit from the development of modern biotechnology .
our european legislation on gmos guarantees an individual and thorough risk assessment of each gmo product placed on the european market .
the sensitivity and complexity of the matter might explain why we are confronted with a total number of 52 amendments at second reading .
the commission can accept in their entirety amendments nos 9 , 17 , 19 , 29 and 47 , which improve the quality and the clarity of the texts .
the commission can also accept in principle amendments nos 1 to 4 , 8 , 11 , 24 , 35 to 38 , 46 , 48 , 49 and 52 .
let me comment further on amendment no 1 and amendments nos 13 , 14 and 28 , which all relate to the biosafety protocol and obligations for imports and exports of gmos .
the european community was one of the driving forces in the successful adoption of the cartagena protocol on biosafety in january .
the commission therefore welcomes the spirit of amendment no 1 .
this refers to the need to submit the appropriate proposals for the implementation of the protocol when ratified - work has already begun .
however , the commission cannot accept the inclusion of provisions on import and export obligations in the text of the directive .
we believe that the implications of the protocol on the overall european union legislative framework have yet to be fully assessed .
amendments nos 13 , 14 and 28 are therefore not acceptable in the present revision .
when i made my presentation to parliament in the autumn i promised that i would make particular reference to gmos in the white paper on environmental liability .
the commission did exactly that when adopting the white paper this year .
the commission is of the opinion that a horizontal approach is the most efficient way to guarantee a comprehensive responsibility regime for environmental damage .
this is also the best way to complement the existing horizontal system for product liability already covering gmos .
i can therefore accept amendments nos 2 , 36 and 46 in principle , as far as they refer to the commission white paper .
however , i cannot accept amendments nos 33 , 40 and 45 .
i am also fully aware of the political importance of certain other aspects raised by the proposed amendments .
the commission cannot agree to a general ban of gmos containing antibiotic resistance marker genes .
at the moment there is no scientific evidence that all gmos of this type present adverse effects to human health and the environment .
within these limits , amendments nos 11 , 37 , 48 and 52 are therefore acceptable in principle .
the commission can also accept in principle amendments nos 3 , 4 , 8 , 24 and 35 to the extent that they are in line with the logic of the texts and fit within the overall legislative framework .
the commission can therefore agree to a recital concerning socio-economic aspects which refers to the reporting obligation of the commission .
the commission welcomes amendments nos 38 and 49 concerning gene transfer .
however , the commission cannot accept amendment no 12 concerning the prevention of gene transfer .
gene transfer between organisms is , as we know , a common phenomenon in nature .
instead we need to ensure that potential risks from gene transfer are thoroughly assessed before gmo products are released for research or placed on the market .
the commission cannot accept amendments nos 22 and 23 as they stand , since the provisions foreseen in these amendments would not be workable within the authorisation system established by the directive .
in this context , amendment no 26 is also not acceptable since this would limit the flexibility of the optional time limitation of consent for the renewal .
amendment no 25 seeks to introduce a provision which allows for the introduction of differentiated procedures under part c of the directive .
however , this amendment goes beyond the commission proposal and is therefore not acceptable to the commission as it stands .
the commission is , however , willing to reconsider this amendment in the light of its original proposal and within the framework of an overall compromise .
the commission cannot accept amendment no 21 since the legal basis of future legislative measures is subject to its content and cannot be established in advance by this directive .
amendment no 6 , concerning a centralised community procedure , is not acceptable .
however , i should like to stress that careful evaluation of a centralised procedure would be done in the commission report required under article 30 of the directive .
amendment no 32 is therefore not acceptable .
amendments nos 5 , 7 , 10 , 15 , 16 , 18 , 20 , 27 , 30 , 31 , 34 , 39 , 41 to 44 , 50 and 51 are also not acceptable since they would introduce legal and technical uncertainty or jeopardise the overall balance achieved in the common position .
it has to ensure a high level of protection for human health and the environment and , at the same time , allow society to profit from the benefits of these new technologies .
to strike the right balance between these two justified concerns we need a transparent process , a wide dialogue and strong political leadership .
we all have to take our responsibilities in achieving this , and this is the only way in which we will win the trust and confidence of our citizens .
you know that the contained use directive excludes this and , at the same time , article 2 ( 4 ) of the common position makes no provision for regulations on gmos for contained use .
there is a gap in the legislation here and i think that this is very important for tomorrow ' vote .
mr president , i shall start with the second part of mrs breyer 's question .
insurance is one thing we will have to look into in more depth and also get the views of other parties on the practical aspects .
i believe it will be possible to put an insurance system in place .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
the regulation under discussion has come too late , much too late in my opinion , but all the same it will help to provide some answers , some solutions and it will help us to take some action to restore consumer confidence .
in short , we all know what we are talking about .
the system that parliament is endeavouring to establish though its amendments could be applied from 1 september 2000 onwards and we insist on this because one demand of the entire house was that specific dates and deadlines should be set at long last and that we should get started .
i propose that we change this system .
the most important objective of the commission proposal - and i should like expressly to stress this once again - is the traceability of beef or bovine animals from birth through to processing and sale .
information on the fattening process and , where applicable , on antibiotics or other stimulants administered , as demanded in proposed amendment no 48 , have absolutely no business to be on the label .
this applies in particular to information on the region of origin of the meat .
but we are emphatically against making all the information , including the indication of the place of birth , compulsory when the regulation enters into force in september 2000 , rather than in two stages .
mr president , beef labelling has two distinct functions .
member states have differing levels of bse incidence but there are also variations in the measures to eradicate the disease and protect human health .
therefore people want to know which country their beef comes from .
reference to regions should not be an alternative to country of origin but a voluntary addition .
i say that because he comes from a small political group - and it is often hard to make headway here - and he comes from one of the southern member states , which will in some ways have to make sacrifices and introduce regulations to bring about effective , proper beef labelling throughout the community .
the fact that we have had to wait two years for this proposal to become a practical reality is a poor comment on the urgency with which they regard it , although the situation was plainly critical from the time of the outbreak of the bse crisis onwards .
i was glad to hear the representative of the committee on agriculture and rural development say that they would settle for the four-month advance that would involve coming forward from january 2002 .
we believe that this is necessary because we should now get the whole european union on the move .
what everybody wants - whether they are farmers , citizens or consumers in the united kingdom or anywhere else in the union - is to feel that they have equal confidence , wherever they are , in the safety of the product that they are consuming .
i know that there are people in the netherlands who disagree with that and i would be interested to know why .
we agree with the rapporteur ' s intention to stiffen and speed up the compliance provisions in amendments nos 42 and 43 .
my country , mr president , and yours - if i can call scotland my country too , as i certainly would - have suffered the horrors of bse .
after our years of effort to that end , we can now justifiably say to the community as a whole that what we want for ourselves we want for everyone else as well .
if nothing is done , compulsory labelling will enter into force on 1 september 2000 .
if we cannot agree on parliament ' s proposals by 1 september , then the old regulation with the compulsory system will enter into force .
mr president , the people who will be most shocked to learn of this evening ' s debate must surely be european consumers .
they will be astounded to learn that , so many years after the start of the bse crisis , the european union still does not have a reliable traceability system for beef .
it is therefore all the more deplorable that they should have been deprived of this possibility by the treaty of amsterdam .
what a decidedly strange europe it is that penalises member states which take the necessary initiatives and action to restore consumer confidence and protect citizens ' health !
if legal action can now only be taken at community level , then let us at least act quickly and stop indefinitely postponing the implementation of the commitments made in 1997 with a view to providing the consumer with transparent and comprehensible information .
compulsory labelling indicating the origin of goods must therefore be introduced as soon as possible , and it must certainly not be postponed until 1 january 2003 , as the commission proposes .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , fourteen years after bse first appeared , we have finally got around to doing something about labelling meat in order to protect consumers and ensure traceability .
this protection is undoubtedly belated in principle but , above all , illusory in practice .
firstly , in the draft regulation , 50 % of european meat is effectively exempt from compulsory labelling if it is minced or cut .
for the remaining 50 % , labelling is not compulsory until 2003 , which means that we have three years to dispose of british surplus stocks .
and after 2003 , the designation of origin may be limited to a simple indication of ' ec origin ' with no mention of the country .
what is more , to bury the prion under even more details , the label is laden down with indications of : the place where the animal was born , fattened , slaughtered and boned , with the member state of origin , the region of origin , the farm of origin , a total of twelve items , plus the price and the weight , making a total of fourteen items , which is simply too much to read and take in .
the only effective protection would be checks , and this requires states and frontiers .
mr president , this debate on the labelling of beef is closely akin to our previous concerns on the subject of food safety .
as far as the edd group is concerned , product traceability provides a guarantee both for the protection of consumer health and for the promotion of quality products which all producers , large or small , are capable of producing if they favour quality over base commercial and financial interests which have little regard for human health .
in our view the important and essential thing in this report is that all meat industry products should be covered by compulsory labelling , from basic butchered meat to derivatives , minced meat , cut meat , etc .
to that end , as i already stated in our discussions on 5 october 1999 , the cpnt party members within the edd group will therefore support any measure in support of complete traceability , which can only be of benefit to everyone concerned : the consumer , who will be informed , and the good producer , who will be protected .
any food labelling policy must be accurate and dependable for both the producers and the consumers .
mr president , the discussion on labelling beef has reached a point at which it is crucial to restore confidence among producers and consumers .
mr president , commissioner , food safety gets people talking perhaps more than any other issue , and , for that reason , it is good that it also gets us talking here in parliament .
but the most important consideration is that it does not just get us talking , but that we should also do something about it .
many have mentioned here that the ec label is not enough and that more precise information is needed .
it is absolutely essential to know what country the products are from .
in addition , the origin , not only of meat products , but of the ingredients used in processed meat , must be shown as clearly as possible .
the timetable that the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy is proposing is not too pressing .
the member states should have already prepared themselves for it .
the issue is also one of credibility when it comes to implementing joint resolutions in all member states .
the purpose of the regulation in question must be to achieve a situation in which consumers have confidence in meat from all eu countries .
until this is a reality , consumers need to know precisely which country their meat comes from .
the authorisation number does not provide the consumer with any useful information and has no bearing upon traceability .
the compulsory registration system for bovine animals due to enter into force is the sine qua non for a reasonable beef labelling system .
such a system must be practicable if it is to achieve its objective .
mr president , the discussion on labelling beef is quite loaded .
an important question is whether the " origin : eu " label should be permitted as an added option .
there are , of course , other means of enforcing compliance , but this method is far more direct .
the internal market is a large entity .
mutual recognition requires trust , and trust requires common standards , especially in the case of food safety .
we would then be accepting that we have more confidence in certain countries than others and this is a sign of little faith in our own food safety policy .
mr president , commissioner , in my view , at present this is not a matter of confidence in the safety of food alone : it is very important that we also look to the near future .
we must put our own house , our own part of the world , in order .
for this reason , labelling must be kept very simple : the labels must show the country of origin , and , if one wishes , the region of production .
but a label showing the country of origin of a product is very important to us , particularly if we want consumers to have confidence in food safety in the future .
tomorrow , the european union is preparing to outline a test programme for all member states .
in this context , consumers would not understand the delays in the matter of labelling .
i am therefore particularly concerned to ensure that the operators in this industry are not confronted with a legal vacuum which would lead public opinion , quite legitimately , to wonder whether there is a real desire for greater transparency .
how else is it possible to explain the fact that at european level we have managed to obtain an agreement on chocolate but that we are unable to meet the deadlines we set ourselves in an area as sensitive and important as beef .
finally , what our fellow citizens are demanding is the right to information .
in the beef sector , improving consumer information through labelling represents a strong message from europe to its trading partners : it demonstrates its intention , over and above product health safety , to safeguard the consumer ' s freedom of choice .
fortunately , integral chain control ( icc ) is already well-known in many countries .
if certain conditions are met - and i would like to refer to amendments nos 60 and 61 concerning the inspection of bse , as others have done so before me - then the designation " origin : eu " is sufficient as far as i am concerned .
i hope this will restore consumer confidence in beef , especially after the bse crisis .
i would like to see not only the country but also the region of origin on the label .
mr president , i wish to begin by saying that i welcome the report .
the system is certainly very necessary , if nothing else than to achieve a level playing field within the european union and to ensure that all countries reach the same standards .
the problem to date has been , in my experience in northern ireland , that the consumer has borne the brunt of the cost of the extra traceability , and this has been substantial .
we have fought for years within the european union to achieve a single market and now we are renationalising that market .
as i said , in northern ireland we have full traceability and our measures go beyond the regulations .
i have to say to the commission , and to producers in other member states , that my producers have to date not seen any financial benefit from that which they have suffered .
first to ensure the traceability of beef , second to allow consumers to make a fully informed choice .
this is particularly the case in relation to article 13 and article 13 ( 2 ) primarily serving the first and article 13 ( 5 ) the second aim .
amendments nos 26 and 28 to 13 ( 5 ) therefore seemed rather confused - one seeking less and one seeking more detailed information for consumers .
for this reason , whatever the final form of article 13 , i regard amendments nos 15 and 29 as being of the first importance .
for my own constituency of course , aberdeen angus beef is already justly renowned throughout the world but i am sure the same is true for other regions in the rest of the uk and other member states .
i am therefore prepared to accept proposed amendments nos 22 and 23 , insofar as they concern labelling , and the parts of proposed amendments nos 25 , 26 and 28 calling for information on individual regions to be scrapped .
finally , proposed amendment no 44 , under which the regulation would enter into force on 1 september 2000 heads in exactly the same direction .
i think the new recital suggested in proposed amendment no 6 , whereby member states must ensure that their databases are operational as quickly as possible , is also a good idea .
as the obligation to enter the place of birth and all stopovers in the animal passport and database has only been introduced for animals born on or after 1 january 1998 , it will be difficult to trace the complete origin of bovine animals over the next five years .
as far as labelling of minced meat is concerned , we must bear in mind that the production of minced meat , for example of hamburgers , is a continuous process .
as far as the commission ' s powers to react to unusual and unforeseen circumstances are concerned , i am , unfortunately , unable to accept proposed amendments nos 16 and 38 because they prevent a practicable solution .
finally , i think it is premature to commit ourselves to extending the labelling system to processed products containing beef , as suggested in proposed amendment no 40 .
as far as the proposed amendments tabled subsequently at the end of last week are concerned , i have already explained in connection with proposed amendments nos 45 and 46 that the commission agrees with you that the first stage of the compulsory system should start on 1 september this year .
this idea may look simple on paper , but it is in fact extremely complicated to administer and , more importantly , to control .
as far as the voluntary system is concerned , which is to be set up alongside the new compulsory system in order to include all the information which is not being made compulsory , the commission can accept two of the four amendments adopted by the committee on the environment , namely proposals 33 and 35 .
however , i see that a total of nine new proposed amendments have been tabled for this plenary sitting which were not adopted by the committee on the environment .
these amendments seek to re-introduce a formal approval procedure for voluntary information on labels .
that concludes the debate .
the vote will be taken on wednesday at 11.30 a.m. ( the sitting was closed at 12.10 a.m. )
thank you , mrs ludford .
for instance , the technical group , the tdi group , which did not table any amendments at committee stage whatsoever , has now arrived in plenary with between 20 and 30 amendments , many of which are contradictory .
that does not respect our own rules of procedure , which allow only 32 members or a group to table amendments in plenary .
so five or six people had questions down to commissioner byrne , but none of us were here to ask the questions .
commissioner byrne seems to have taken offence at this and seen it as some kind of snub .
but it is very difficult for members to sit right through every single question during question time just in case we jump from no 1 to no 99 in a matter of seconds .
thank you , mrs mckenna .
thank you , mr wynn , i cannot answer you right now , but i will have the matter investigated .
thank you , mrs laguiller .
mr ribeiro e castro will present the motion .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , this report should not have been admitted .
we are all attached to fundamental rights and the rule of law , starting here in this house .
anything which discriminates in our legal and political conditions , between our political parties and groups in terms of freedom and equality affects our right of representation and ultimately the rights and very freedom of our electors .
paragraph 15 ruins the whole text by defiling a very serious issue .
we therefore propose , in order to defend europe and the rule of law , the immediate rejection of this report .
thank you , mr ribeiro e castro .
madam president , i think mr ribeiro e castro is quite right to consider the dimitrakopoulos-leinen report inadmissible because it conflicts with and even infringes a number of rights enshrined in our institutions .
but more generally i believe this report infringes a whole range of different rights , beginning with the rights of the small and medium-sized states which have formed an integral part of our institutions and been highly respected by them since the early days of the treaty of rome .
thank you , mr berthu .
i call on members to vote against this motion .
we must examine and vote on the report during this part-session , because it is not a matter of voting for the two rapporteurs but of voting for the european parliament ' s opinion .
however , i also believe that the strong language my fellow delegates are using is completely uncalled for .
we have recital 15 .
all in all , i believe that there is no call for excessively strong language , and i am also in favour of us rejecting this amendment .
today , through the proceedings of the intergovernmental conference , the european union is being called upon to address the great challenges involved in the transition from the 20th to the 21st century , challenges we all recognise , which are important , which influence the course of the european union every day , and challenges which , above all , raise a fundamental issue : how ready are we , as an institution , as the european union , to face them ?
the intergovernmental conference attempts to answer just that question .
the first point is once again to consolidate the institutional nature of the european union .
the second point is to reconfirm and consolidate another important principle , the principle of a balance of powers , a principle that relates precisely to the role and relationship of those who participate in the european union , a principle expressed by the way all the member states express themselves in all - i repeat , all - the european union ' s institutional bodies .
the third basic principle safeguarded in the report is the proposal for a general - and i stress the word general - review of all the institutional bodies that make up the european union .
it is only natural , when already in a europe with 15 member states we find and all agree that some things do not work quite so well and must be put right , that this will be all the more necessary when we it concerns a european union with 18 , 20 , 25 and 27 member states .
closer cooperation , at least as we view it , must comprise two main elements .
secondly , it must contain a very highly developed element of democratic awareness , which means that if any country or countries for some reason do not wish to participate , at least during a first phase , this should not be regarded as an exclusion or as a factor that restricts the presence of those countries in the european union .
doubling the number of member states requires far-reaching reform of the working structures and the decision-making procedures in the union , so that this whole undertaking does not become incapable of acting .
that is the most crucial issue and it must be the yardstick for gauging the success or failure of this intergovernmental conference .
this would not be in the interests of our citizens and our countries .
that is why it is so important for some countries to integrate more closely , as we put it , if we want european unification to take place within the confines of the european union rather than outside them .
i ask myself what kind of message this intergovernmental conference sends out to our citizens .
we also want to improve our opportunities for supervising the commission .
a europe of the citizens - to pick up on a theme i touched on before - also goes hand in hand with the charter of citizen ' s rights in the union .
the reform of the european treaties must deliver two things : more efficiency and more democracy .
if the european treaty of nice succeeds in this , then the prospects are good for achieving stability and also acceptance amongst the citizens in an enlarged european union .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , allow me first of all to make a few brief comments on foreign policy .
the treaty of amsterdam made it possible for there to be far-reaching integration of the western european union into the treaty ; in particular , it transferred the petersberg tasks .
therefore it is to be hoped that the convention , under the leadership of roman herzog , will put forward a catalogue of fundamental rights which we will be able to include in the treaty in a legally binding manner , and that on this basis , we will then be able to define our values in such a way that many of the things we discussed in the past will no longer be possible , because we will have a clear legal provision in place .
if we succeed in this then , all in all , we will have made considerable progress , and will thus have created the conditions necessary to the enlargement of the european union .
this should be enshrined in the treaty , for it is already included in our rules of procedure and is , as i said , established practice .
for years we have endeavoured to protect the financial interests of the community more effectively .
it is the view of this committee that the construction of this area of justice is important and , to this end , a reform of the court of justice is necessary .
our first demand is therefore that qualified majority be established with the assent of the european parliament .
with regard to the court , parliament also asks to be able to participate in the process of selecting judges as already happens with the posts in the constitutional courts in our states .
lastly , madam president , we want to see a reform of the treaty so that parliament , in relation to the third pillar , also has full access to justice by means of repeal in the event of regulations and acts which do not conform .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs , i would like to highlight three demands that we have to make of the intergovernmental conference , although all of them relate to the same facts .
but we still have 15 different economic policies in the member states of the european union , and we will only succeed in the long-term if this economic policy is framed according to common principles .
hence our first demand is that we should firmly establish the social market economy , which adds a human dimension to the functioning of the market , in the european treaty , as a model for our economic policy .
the court of first instance must be better accommodated in this framework , and both jurisdictions must be able to take more autonomous decisions regarding their own structures and procedures .
but in order to bring the report of the committee on legal affairs as far as possible into line with the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , i tabled four more amendments in the plenary meeting .
as some of these amendments are also to be found in the opinions of other committees , i believe that these amendments deserve - and will probably receive - the support of the entire parliament .
this is why we need to seize this opportunity with both hands to prepare the european union , with all its institutions and in all fields , to face the challenges of the 21st century successfully . , draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgets . ( es ) madam president , the conditions of my intervention in this plenary session are illustrative of the budgetary problem .
i have just hurried from a meeting which , according to the treaty , does not exist .
it is the adaptation of the treaty , article 272 in particular , to the real situation .
we have renewed them three times , and we believe that the time has come to include the fundamental principles in the treaty so that we will not find ourselves in legally dubious situations , such as the case of the meeting which i have just mentioned .
when there are 25 members , the current procedure will not work .
i would like to raise two points .
there are no clear guidelines on institutional mechanisms for defining a common energy policy , let alone cooperation to guarantee the supply of energy or in terms of the environmental aspects of energy policy .
this means that the codecision procedure needs to apply to the euratom treaty too .
i would therefore urge you most emphatically to vote for amendment no 60 which i have tabled on behalf of my group , so that uniform safety standards can be drawn up for nuclear reactors .
the second major point is the union ' s legal personality .
indeed , it then becomes possible to ratify a number of treaties , such as ilo treaties and some un treaties in the social field , which will add legal clarity to this type of issue .
the fisheries policy is one of those policies that makes a substantial contribution to the realisation of the single market .
it strengthens economic and social conditions .
it is obvious that the fisheries sector is not an isolated pawn in the game , for it has an impact on sectors such as development , the environment and foreign relations .
as a community policy in its own right in the union treaty , the fisheries sector will unite these aspects to good effect , for that is what we want to achieve : we want to place the fisheries sector on an independent administrative and legislative footing , in relation to agriculture for example .
in fact this political responsibility inevitably gives rise to a claim to the most far-reaching of codecision rights .
madam president , the proposals by the committee on women ' s rights for the intergovernmental conference aim to enhance democracy and effectiveness .
we declare that balanced participation of women and men in decision-making at every level is a prerequisite for democracy and social justice , and we are therefore asking for the related articles of the treaties to be amended to take account of that principle in the composition of the commission , the european parliament , the court of justice , the court of first instance , the court of auditors , the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions .
we also stress the need for a close link between the intergovernmental conference and the procedure for drawing up the charter of fundamental rights , so that within the scope of the constitutionalisation of the union , the fundamental right of equality between women and men will be enshrined in community law .
the issue tackled at the last igc meeting was the question of extending qualified majority voting .
as regards the decision-making procedure in the european parliament , there is broad consensus that no revision of the treaty should be effected which involves changing the existing institutional balance .
many consider that changes should only be made where strictly necessary to ensure the effective functioning of the european union after enlargement .
it should be recalled that the conclusions of the helsinki european council specify that the council presidency will submit a report to the european council and may propose in this report the insertion of new items on the igc ' s agenda .
in the area of security and defence and the charter of fundamental rights , the council presidency considers that , depending on the progress of the work , the right should be reserved to propose to the feira european council next june the inclusion in the igc of any adjustments or additions to the treaties which may prove necessary in these areas .
however , there is clear disagreement between , on one hand , the small and medium-sized member states which want a commission composed of one national from each member state , all with equal status , and , on the other , the large member states which favour a fixed number of commissioners regardless of the number of member states .
as for the commission ' s collective responsibility as a college , there is some reluctance to accept alterations to the current institutional framework , with the current supervision exercised by the european parliament being regarded as sufficient .
the idea submitted by this house of the commission being able to request a vote of confidence in it was positively welcomed .
mr president-in-office of the council , you , and also the french council presidency that is to succeed you , bear a huge responsibility , because the outcome of this intergovernmental conference will be of historic significance , be it for positive or negative reasons .
recital 1 sets out the benchmarks that the intergovernmental conference must work to : balance between the institutions , dual legitimacy of the european union as a union of peoples and a union of states , and - something which is particularly important - balance between the small and large states of the european union .
if the european union is to become a community of values - if we are to play a true role in the new global governance , then we need to be promoting the values of the geneva conventions not only to our own soldiers and security forces , but also to people in our civilian societies .
we need to be working hard to combat racism and xenophobia .
mr president , i am in sincere agreement with what was said in the previous speech .
yesterday , in one excellent speech , someone said that we have a moral obligation to defend and develop democracy and human rights .
what this moral obligation actually entails and the extent of our efforts and commitment will , however , come to light in the context of that wretched reality represented by wars and armed conflicts .
mr president , in response to a question put to him during a radio interview on 20 january last , the russian ambassador to paris declared that what the russians were doing in chechnya was fighting terrorism and that europe and the whole world would subsequently thank russia , when they understood the issue .
at a time when we are celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of a great landmark in humanitarian international law , the geneva convention , we cannot ignore that fact that all the points of the geneva convention are being violated on our doorstep , even though the russians may say that this is not a state of war but a state of emergency .
if we genuinely want our action to have any effect , we must send a delegation from the european parliament to chechnya and the governments must undertake to abide by paragraph 6 of the resolution , which we may shortly be voting on , in which parliament calls upon the council to ensure that cooperation with third countries is dependent upon reports on their application of human rights .
i would also like to congratulate the portuguese presidency because once again , it appears that it attended virtually all important debates this week .
yugoslavia proved that europe will remain vulnerable as long as the union limits itself in scope to western europe .
or asia , burma , in particular , where entire groups of the population are being driven out of their traditional areas with military force .
sudan , where the southern population has been on the run from the northern rulers for years and where martial law is ignored .
at the same time , the geneva convention is also a beacon because we now have a tool by means of which we can expose inhumanities and because we can also report on positive developments .
so there is a solution to all these humanitarian issues which are referred to the geneva convention , and this solution is co-determined by us on a daily basis within our european parliament , where 15 nationalities cooperate in a peaceful manner .
we should not turn a blind eye to the suffering around us but we should also be grateful for being able to live in peace and prosperity here in western europe , hoping that this peace and prosperity , as well as an end to all violence , will reach all corners of the globe : in eastern europe , south-eastern europe , asia , africa and anywhere else in desperate need of this .
as for the second section of the convention , and in particular articles 13 and 14 , which refer to protection from the effects of war for the wounded , the sick , the aged , children and expectant mothers , here it really is worth pausing to consider kosovo and the findings of the relevant un report .
the best way , therefore , of celebrating the 50th anniversary of the geneva convention is to strengthen the democratic and political facets of the union , so that it can play a more decisive role on the international stage and solve any differences using peaceful means which respect human rights and , more importantly , respect everything set out in this truly wonderful geneva convention .
article 23 of the universal islamic declaration of human rights says that no one shall be forced to leave the country of his residence or be arbitrarily deported therefrom .
nine years later , more than 600 prisoners of war are unreleased and unaccounted for by iraq .
unscom has destroyed 38 000 chemical weapons munitions , 690 tonnes of chemical weapons agents , 3 000 tonnes of precursor chemicals , 48 scud missiles and a biological weapons factory designed to produce up to 50 000 litres of anthrax , botulism toxin and other agents .
after nine years she has only provided information sufficient to close three files .
parliament has brought the fate of these prisoners to the public ' s attention three times since our appointment in july and has also asked the council to act in this matter .
the situation in kosovo has got considerably worse , not least because the albanians are concerned about the fate of their fellow countrymen in serbian prisons .
mr president , human rights are individual rights which have found their way into national constitutions and international agreements as universal and inalienable rights or standards .
they include the right to personal and political freedom and basic social and economic rights .
human rights are indivisible .
as a global actor , the european union must take greater account of human rights , both at home and abroad , in the form of a stronger human rights policy .
allow me to take this opportunity to express my full recognition of the major humanitarian work which the international red cross and other humanitarian organisations carry out in regard both to spreading knowledge of the humanitarian principles as expressed in the geneva conventions and to providing aid to war victims throughout the world .
allow me to illustrate the constantly widening gulf that exists between , on the one hand , the principles contained in the conventions and , on the other hand , current observance of these by pointing out that , in conflicts in the course of the last decade , 10 times as many civilians have been killed as soldiers .
the widening gulf between principles and practice is due , in my opinion , to the fact that the character of wars has changed during the last 50 years .
more and more wars are fought under conditions of anarchy in which there are no stable structures and in which the areas hit by war are not controlled by any government .
the world has also witnessed a growing number of wars in which weapons have deliberately been aimed at civilians and the purpose of which has been to annihilate specific groups in society .
in these situations , humanitarian aid to victims is naturally unwelcome , and this leaves the world in a terrible dilemma .
the other option is to ensure that the humanitarian principles established in the geneva conventions are in actual fact observed , for example , by improving the mechanisms for enforcing them .
thank you very much , mr nielson .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday .
after the horrors of the second world war , many surely felt a strong sense of hope for a better world and a more humane future .
unfortunately , these hopes have , in many respects , been dashed .
a large proportion of the world 's population is still living under oppression , with many deprived of their basic rights .
the eu is therefore in desperate need of a coordinated , strategic and consistent policy in this area .
in my opinion some of these deficiencies are linked to structural barriers and precisely this lack of a common strategy within the eu in the area of human rights .
we need increased coordination , not just between the institutions of the eu , but also between the eu and the member states .
human rights must be integrated into the eu 's activities naturally : in aid , in trade , in economic , cultural and political cooperation .
i would also like to say a few words about women 's rights , an issue that i have chosen as a special theme in the report .
the commission declared 1999 to be the year for combating violence against women .
reports abound on violence in the home , rapes , ritual violence and maltreatment in prisons .
in certain countries , the governments are employing a pure apartheid policy against women .
the countries of the eu must ratify the report of the proceedings of the international criminal court as soon as possible so that it can start work .
the eu can play an important part when it comes to encouraging countries to ratify different international conventions for the protection of human rights .
instead , the eu should have the status of a legal person , it should accede to the human rights conventions and , in that way , guarantee that human rights are respected , including in countries where the eu has jurisdiction .
i also hope that there will soon be a judgement ensuring that citizens are not only entitled to form trade unions but also to be free to join them .
i think that bosnia and kosovo have taught us all that national minorities constitute the most potentially explosive factor in the europe of the future .
now , i think , they should put matters in order in their own countries and get these conventions signed .
i could talk at length , partly about the conditions to which asylum seekers are subject in our member states .
if only half of what is stated in the reports by amnesty international and human rights watch is correct , then the situation regarding the treatment of asylum seekers is indefensible .
technology is developing and so too , therefore , must our instruments for the protection of human rights .
mr president , this report builds on previous excellent work in the european parliament and other eu institutions .
i very much welcome the positioning of the fight against race discrimination firmly in a human rights context by placing it in this joint debate because that is very much the approach taken in this report .
thirdly my report notes that racial prejudice and discrimination poisons our whole society , including for white people .
surveys show that racism has increased and there is an increase in racist violence and support for extremist parties .
on the other hand there is also progress , however bumpy , and some regions and cities in europe are becoming at ease with a multi-racial and multi-cultural way of life .
the second area where there are apparently epp-ed hesitations is regarding enhanced rights for legally resident third country nationals of which there are around 20 million in the union .
the third area which i understand creates some problems for the epp-ed group is the belief that this report breaches subsidiarity by mentioning matters like education and policing .
i believe this report will get majority support here in plenary .
could i just finally say that i can accept some of the amendments from the green group and the gue , particularly the one which i welcome to replace the term " holocaust " by " shoah " .
racism , xenophobia and antisemitism are realities in eastern and western europe alike .
the european parliament sets great store by countering racism , xenophobia and antisemitism in the candidate countries , as is evident from the report and opinions .
the same goes for jews and germans , and for jews and czechs in czechoslovakia , jews and germans in poland and jews and turks in bulgaria .
paragraph 32 of the draft resolution should be read against this dark background .
it would mean a great deal to me if this were to be accomplished .
i would make two or three other very simple points .
the example of afghanistan illustrates that discrimination against women is not a cultural but a political phenomenon .
in many african countries , women are not allowed to own any possessions or open a bank account without the permission of a man .
we must condemn all practices which lead to the mutilation or death of women .
but the atrocities in the rest of the world should not blind us to the atrocities in our own countries .
domestic violence is still a huge problem within the european union .
a powerful and concerted effort is needed from all member states to fight this outrageous form of trafficking in human beings .
mr president , this report sends a powerful message to the council and commission .
mr president , i would like to touch briefly on two points , which are based on the fact that , frequently , the west is not only a participant but also a protagonist in violations of human rights .
we feel that the right to development should be a global priority and that it is an essential condition if human rights policies in these countries are to be genuinely implementable .
lastly , i would like to take this opportunity to remind the house that over a hundred members ' signatures have been collected in support of the nomination of the mothers of plaza de mayo for the nobel peace prize .
the commission needs this aid .
the report contains a number of excellent and well-considered proposals .
you will all be aware of the example , recently reported in the french press , of a young man from strasbourg who sent two completely identical curricula vitæ to the same company .
equal rights means being entitled to vote and fighting against all forms of discrimination , whether spatial , geographical , social or racial .
for example , the right to immigration does not exist .
of course , an immigrant coming from outside the union has the right to enjoy his rights , but imposing limits or controls on immigration cannot be classed as racism or xenophobia , for the very reason that there is no mention of a right to immigrate in any text .
many of them abuse their women and , more importantly , their children .
mr president , the 1998 / 1999 annual report on respecting human rights within the eu has gone far beyond its own brief .
but in contrast to what is stated in the report , we cannot prevent racism and xenophobia by adopting a unilateral , positive approach to the multi-cultural society as a " source of social vitality " .
we have several basic principles .
the first is not to take account of issues falling outside the time framework of this report which relates to 1998 and 1999 .
we have also wanted to avoid , where possible , countries being mentioned or highlighted when the report on human rights for this year does not contain a systematic analysis of each country .
the next report to be put to the vote should be awaited with even more trepidation and should clearly show the interest which our union takes in human rights within our community .
we have problems in the candidate countries .
we have pictures on our tv almost every day of child soldiers fighting in conflicts throughout the world .
in 1998 my own government appointed a child rights expert from save the children to the foreign and commonwealth office to develop strategies and practical projects in relation to children 's rights .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , in view of our discussion of these reports on human rights inside and outside the european union , the time is therefore right to consider the cross-influences between the ' inside ' and the ' outside ' .
it is therefore unacceptable that the readmission agreements can allow a third country national to be returned to his or her country when we know that this country more often than not does not guarantee respect for human rights and democratic freedoms .
these readmission agreements are dangerous for asylum-seekers , for the dissemination of human rights throughout the world and for the international stature of the european union .
on human rights , the union could take pride in being the first in history to define citizenship according to a principle of residence instead of establishing discrimination based on nationality .
mr president , this debate is taking place at an important moment for this parliament .
a year after waging war against yugoslavia in the name of human rights , we have remained passive in the face of an even greater violation of these rights on the part of russia in chechnya .
this year we have also seen a racist and xenophobic party enter government in austria , and in spain we have also seen an outbreak of racist violence in el ejido .
this has also been the year in which the catholic church has issued a mea culpa on violations of human rights committed throughout history .
to this end , we in the european union could develop a more constructive attitude .
i therefore propose five points , which are the contributions of the gue / ngl group to the various reports .
firstly , to abandon all hypocrisy and treat all countries in the same way ; secondly , to commit ourselves to defending , at all costs , human rights everywhere , including in the economic field , in factories ; thirdly , to show a special concern for human rights throughout the world , in latin america ( in mexico , in argentina , in peru ) etc . ; fourthly , to accept unreservedly the cause of human rights for women ; and lastly , to recommend the ratification of the international criminal court .
we particularly welcome the fact that the problem of religious freedom was mentioned , as some countries , especially the czech republic , have already passed very restrictive laws against religious minorities .
whoever takes political responsibility for this anti-fascist punch and judy show here in the house and in the eu countries in question has cause to be proud .
if this irrational collective hatred against an entire nation can be so readily called upon in the eu , we are a long way from being in a position to dictate to other countries .
mr president , there is something rather pathetic in our determination to link human rights to the european project whose very logic questions and even threatens those rights .
in our opinion , human rights cannot be envisaged without a political society and , in particular , without this supreme form of the peaceful political society which is the nation , in terms of both civil peace and balance between nations , and therefore international peace .
however , i would stress that these remarks are out of place in a report on human rights .
these remarks have no place in a document on human rights , as they should not be using up the time allocated to the baroness ' s report , and so they have acquired the bitter taste of political exploitation of a very serious issue such as human rights .
throughout the document , the identity of europeans , of the european nations , is not once referred to in a positive sense but always as a possible framework for xenophobia and racism .
a multicultural europe which does not include european culture would lead to disaster and its decline .
it seems to me to be a very comprehensive report and to make some very striking points .
i would like to draw the house ' s attention to three key points concerning human rights as i see this issue at present .
this is serious , as whilst it may be true that water is becoming ever more important in economic terms , it is also true that the right to water is a human and social right for everyone .
i would therefore like to draw honourable members ' attention to precisely this issue , water , which is going to be one of the most hotly debated subjects this year .
the situation is becoming ever more critical , but the right to water also has to be seen as a human right .
the second point that i would like to mention today , very briefly , is the situation in angola .
i believe that this is exactly what has happened - a veil of silence has been drawn over events in angola , a country which has been in a state of permanent war for 40 years and at civil war for 25 years .
we need to have a clearer and better informed view of events in angola , as i said in this house when we were discussing the issue of attacks on journalists ' rights .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i have taken the floor to explain the reasons why i am going to vote against the motion and my concern over two issues , which were included in the resolution at the request of some members , who , i feel , are trying to exploit the credibility of the european parliament in order to further their own interests , which conflict with the general interests of the community as a whole and italy in particular .
i refer , mr president , to point 38 and points 41 and 42 of the haarder report .
point 38 , which was amended for the worse by amendment no 22 , cited again today in the chamber , imposes on italy - and who knows why italy should be singled out - in order to guarantee the impartiality of judges , not the separation of judicial and political authorities , as advocated by montesquieu , but the separation , within the judiciary , of the careers of judges responsible for giving rulings and investigating magistrates .
mr president , these reports are heading in the right direction but we cannot accept the self-satisfaction of the recitals in the current treaties .
to be effective , the fight against discrimination requires broader and , in particular , more specific measures .
in the same way , full citizenship implies giving third country nationals resident in the european union the right to vote in all elections .
if their status as taxpayers justifies their access to this right , why limit this to the local and european levels ?
this would mean breaking with the provisions of the schengen , amsterdam and dublin treaties which are real insults to the right of asylum .
there continues to be a barbarous war in iraq .
it is a war against children and the innocent citizens of that country .
shame on us in the european union for not stamping out racism and xenophobia which are endemic in my country and in the eu in general .
i want to say to my government that we must do the same at home in ireland .
we need to help the candidate member states in a critical , yet constructive , way and not be afraid to call a spade a spade .
the belder report contains a few concrete pointers in this respect .
it is true that proposals on voting rights for foreigners do not fit in at all in a report on xenophobia , but we do agree on the principle of drafting a recommendation in this respect .
i have subscribed to this practice in the netherlands for some 25 years , starting with the south moluccans .
the committee spent days discussing them and then voted on a largely amended report and now we have another 69 proposed amendments here in plenary .
they want to use this forum to bring their platitudes to the attention of as wide an audience as possible throughout the world .
the annual debate on these matters paves the way for the basic political orientation of the european union .
anyone who abuses a human rights report in order to make national domestic policy has missed the point completely .
anyone who wants to hold a serious discussion on human rights in the eu should talk about human rights and not abuse these valuable and excellent reports for tactical domestic policy games . ( applause ) mr president , although the debate is not yet finished , i would nevertheless like to take the opportunity to thank my colleagues for their comments and support and also for the fruitful cooperation we have experienced in the committee on foreign affairs , human rights , common security and defence policy while working on this report .
in the basque country , where , despite the problems we face , we can choose the language of our children ' s education , the spanish supreme court has declared that it is illegal for local authorities to join together to promote the development of the language , in a clear example of how legal interpretations can be forced through as a result of political intentions and of how not all rights are respected here and now in the european union .
chirac speaks of the rights of the inuits in quebec , but ignores linguistic rights in france .
the italian constitution is the result of the great historical agreement between all the democratic forces which fought against fascism and to liberate italy during the second world war .
mr president , the ludford and haarder reports clearly show the vigour with which some people seem to be trying to mimic the united states of america in its less useful contributions to the development of society .
we will have to establish controlled records or , in other words , conduct a policy of racial discrimination of the masochistic type known as positive discrimination .
you are forgetting that families obtain their rights from the state and from the nations clearly because they allow the state and the nations to continue in existence and because they have a common interest .
mr president , as usual each spring , between the flowering of the plum and cherry trees , we are treated to a fashion show of the latest moral and intellectual campaigns in the fight against satan , his vanities and his works or , to use the accepted expression , against xenophobia , racism and antisemitism .
the english philosopher john locke once said that a country without law is a country without freedom .
fifty years after the signing of the european convention on human rights , twenty years after the helsinki final act , ten years after the collapse of the berlin wall and one year after the coming into force of the amsterdam treaty , there are constitutional provisions remaining in the heart of europe which belong to the medieval age - provisions which have no place in a modern europe .
this is not , as some have tried to claim , an issue affecting only a few people ; it goes to the heart of the european union 's commitment to respect the convention on human rights , to its own treaties and to the rule of law .
there is much talk of a charter of fundamental rights .
i speak as someone with a deep and abiding love for italy and its people , but i say here to you today , and to president ciampi of italy , that italy had neither the moral nor the legal right to sign the treaty of amsterdam until it had removed this most blatant violation of the convention from its own constitution .
i therefore commend paragraphs 41 and 42 to this house .
mr president , respect for human rights is one of the european union ' s cornerstones .
although i did not join the european parliament until last year , i happen to know that the handling of this annual human rights report has , over the past couple of years , always met with a great deal of political commotion and confusion .
should , in fact , the european policy on asylum and migration not lead to fewer human rights violations in this field ?
it is wise to remain vigilant when it comes to observing human rights of the extensive minorities in europe .
the reality is that millions of people live in poverty in our rich and privileged europe .
the report quite rightly describes this issue of poverty and disadvantage in terms of human rights , and this seems to be a step in the right direction .
the report also devotes attention to the issue of the equal treatment of men and women and the equal treatment of different types of relation and life styles , more so than in previous years .
mr president , there are still many people , some of which are in this house if this debate is anything to go by , who would like to give preferential treatment to marriage and family and , as such , openly insult and discriminate against anyone making a different choice in their private lives .
i agree with this criticism , despite the fact that , as chairman of the delegation for relations with the people 's republic of china , i risk receiving yet another protest letter from beijing asking whether the european parliament is waging a hostile campaign against china .
at the same time , the european union turns a blind eye to situations in which human rights are being savagely violated when , of course , it comes to protecting its imperialistic interests .
the recent and continuing invasion in kosovo , using the rights of minorities as a pretext , and the unbelievable demands being made on yugoslavia are a typical example of how military intervention is being advanced as a general principle of international law at the expense of the principle of national sovereignty .
the results of this policy are already visible in the support being given to extremist , racist , fascist powers , and not just in austria .
and yet the report on the fight against racism does not demonstrate that the necessary conclusions have been drawn .
we have talked about the defence of these human rights and i would now like to insist that if we proclaim human rights , it naturally follows that we must ensure that those rights can be exercised .
mr president , i will end as i began : this house must state loud and clear that the most important element of respecting human rights is the defence of the exercise of those rights - in full - in all cases and particularly in the face of those forces and organisations which hinder freedom of expression .
mr president , i want to speak for a few moments on the ludford report on countering racism in the european union .
their amendment no 12 seeks to delete reference to the need for family unity in europe .
they are against ethnic diversity and they do not accept the benefits given to our society by all its people .
their amendment no 21 deletes the call for encouragement to the ethnic minority to take part in elections to vote or stand as candidates .
we will publicise the epp position and their amendments whether they are passed or not .
so , i urge all colleagues to reject the amendments put forward by the european people 's party and their colleagues on the far right .
nowhere in this report are quotas mentioned .
this report is the annual debate on racism in the year 2000 .
in own nation , wales , for example , we have no empowerment to establish our own laws to counter racism and defend human rights .
the principles of cohesion and the drive to limit poverty and depravity in our communities are a well-settled concept in the european union .
however , it must encompass respect for minorities everywhere if it to inspire the world in its drive towards defeating racism and defending human rights .
we must start with ourselves if we want to build a world where everyone helps each other .
we will be able to intervene more effectively in countries which deny the existence of human and social rights - whether these are the rights of kurds , palestinians , chechens or the rights of afghan women - if we avoid hypocrisy .
our action to foster respect for human rights and create a fair society of creative coexistence therefore needs to be examined against a backdrop of policies and measures which seek to improve economic and social conditions for everyone and combat unemployment , poverty and social exclusion .
the new multicultural europe needs a policy which ensures that immigrants and different social groups and minorities are integrated into the social , political and economic life of national societies .
having respectively suffered 26 and 18 years of this vile torture of waiting on death row , they must immediately be set free .
as rapporteur , i obviously support the amendments of the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy .
i also support all the amendments intended to restore the position adopted by the european parliament at first reading .
this concerns amendments nos 17 , 16 and 19 in particular .
this would mean that the directive could be adopted by a qualified majority , and we would then be able to lay the directive to rest .
we do want the environmental directives to be applied and integrated into european policies but this must involve all the directives and not just the natura 2000 and migratory birds directives .
we do not in fact yet know whether we will be voting on this motion this morning as i was going to put this to the house .
madam president , i would like to remind you that you said that the previous vote would be the last one , and i would also like to point out that this resolution , which is the result of an unfortunate accumulation of two oral questions , in violation of the rules of procedure and normal practice , is causing complicated problems in all of the groups and i do not believe that this is the best way to deal with it .
madam president , i disagree with this decision .
absolutely , mrs banotti .
explanations of vote recommendation for second reading of the lannoye report ( a5-0047 / 2000 ) madam president , by tabling amendments to the chocolate directive , we have tried to offer better protection to those consumers who would like to know whether they are buying real chocolate or a product which , instead of cocoa butter , also contains fats of another origin .
the european parliament is clearly not in tune with public opinion in several respects .
we have not granted them this labelling on chocolate .
developing countries are also the victors .
debates about national tastes and products give us too far wide a sphere for ridiculous discussions .
this proposal in no way responds to the concerns expressed by meps during the vote at first reading on 23 october 1998 .
this is a largely artificial conflict between cocoa producers and shea producers , between poor countries and even poorer countries .
in reality , this proposed directive mainly reflects the position of the chocolate multinationals and defends only their interests with any certainty .
with the accession of new member states , the number of countries authorising vegetable fats other than cocoa butter increased to seven with the addition of finland - which authorises 10 % - austria , portugal and sweden .
the latter felt particularly threatened some years ago when europe , through certain harmonisation directives , tried to impose ' euro-products ' on us and they have demonstrated their desire to defend their culinary traditions .
a campaign has subsequently developed to promote food quality at the same time as food diversity .
the replacement of cocoa butter with other vegetable fats raises a question about protecting the very nature of chocolate .
in a europe which claims to want to protect the consumer and which talks of quality and authenticity labels , here we have a common position from the council which aims to change the nature of what has , up to now , been a quality product , namely chocolate , rather than upset the food multinationals .
you are accustomed to doing anything you like in the name of your dogmas , free movement , free competition and free trade .
more than twenty-five years after the first debate on chocolate in the european parliament and i am again involved in a discussion on the big question of whether a product can be called chocolate when it is not made exclusively from cocoa butter .
today , as twenty-five years ago , this question has divided this house to the point that my group did not produce a voting list and group discipline could not be imposed , which i love in such a case .
i can therefore freely come out in favour of the solution which seems best to me for the producers of real chocolate , as appreciated by the gourmets who believe in calling a spade a spade and calling chocolate chocolate , provided that it is actually made with cocoa butter .
in terms of chocolate , as in other areas , different cultures and traditions exist .
the situation being as it is , i would have preferred the common position to be rejected in the same way that i prefer good handmade chocolate to an industrial product which is currently unverifiable .
and the intention in adopting a new directive on chocolate products is precisely to improve competition in the eu .
although the construction of the internal market is a way to strengthen europe in the face of world competition , this must not lead to a totalitarian dogma and meddling at all levels of our home life .
the new directive does not meet any of the relevant needs .
the 1973 directive clearly and unambiguously defined chocolate as a product made with sugar and cocoa .
in effect , if the content of the directive is being changed , this is due to the pressure of the five multinationals - nestle , suchard , mars , cadbury and ferrero - which already share over 70 % of the european market but whose production capacity is hindered by the current dual legislation .
a site located in france , for example , cannot produce chocolate which does not meet the french standards .
cocoa butter represents 8 to 9 % of the total price of chocolate .
shea butter costs a third of the price of cocoa butter and palm oil butter is ten times cheaper .
to achieve their aim of being able to produce and sell imitation chocolate under the name of chocolate at a lower price throughout the union , these multinationals have worked ceaselessly to make the 1973 derogations the rule , regardless of the interests of chocolate makers and cocoa producers .
this house should challenge other member states to match britain 's example .
its recent wildlife bill , for example , will give greater protection to endangered species than ever before .
furthermore , ' right to roam ' legislation will give the british public the freedom to enjoy and appreciate our beautiful countryside .
madam president , coherent action is urgently required at local , national and european levels to clean up our land , sea and air .
separation of waste , including use of organic waste for composting , must be a priority in any waste strategy .
this is why the european union has adopted a comprehensive strategy to tackle this major environmental and health challenge .
the directive before us today is part of this strategy as it aims to regulate the thermal treatment of hazardous or non-hazardous waste .
i myself have always been doubtful about the incineration of hazardous waste being dealt with in the same legislation as the incineration of non-hazardous waste .
everyone knows that the volume of waste to be incinerated in the european union is set to increase .
thirty-one million tonnes of municipal waste were incinerated in 1990 and this figure will be in excess of 56 million this year .
there are several reasons for this , including the increase in the volume of waste produced and the fall in the quantity of waste sent to landfills .
the debate has particularly crystallised around co-incineration plants .
these use hazardous waste as fuel for the production of energy or physical elements .
in addition , the generalised use of this hazardous waste must not lead to the production of this waste becoming acceptable .
this directive also seeks to control the discharge of waste into our water systems .
this report is now before us at second reading .
i note that one of the recommendations from the european council is that , if an operator of a plant incinerating non-hazardous waste intends to start incinerating hazardous waste , an integrated pollution prevention and control licence must be secured .
all these measures reflect changing public opinions on the issue of waste management .
this is why the uen group has not supported the amendments which are inapplicable in our member states and whose anticipated economic consequences could prove to be very harmful .
the adoption of this directive on waste incineration , which will come into force with effect from 2005 , will considerably improve the current waste management framework in europe , by giving higher priority to important criteria such as public health and the protection of citizens ' rights .
as it is , given that this directive imposes strict technical , legal and operational restrictions on all incineration and co-incineration processes across europe , it will become more obvious that the strategy being pursued in portugal is deeply flawed .
i now believe that the common position submitted by the council is a very good compromise which i can support .
however , i must make one specific point about co-incineration in cement works and justify my vote against two amendments .
i voted against the first part of amendment no 25 , amending annex ii , which sets emission limit values for the cement industry and in particular the value of 15 mg / m3 for dust .
the majority of the member states currently have limit values of 50 mg / m3 .
in a recent cost-benefit analysis , the commission concluded that values of 30 mg / m3 are the best compromise .
to impose limit values of 15 mg / m3 would involve an excessive environmental cost and would not be profitable .
likening ' partially separated waste ' to ' untreated mixed municipal waste ' , as amendment no 14 does , risks affecting the development of the waste sorting sectors which we are trying to establish and in which some or all of the residues could be co-incinerated .
the aim of these proposals is to improve air quality and protect human health .
however , i believe that some countries are not prepared for this either practically or theoretically .
amendments to the legislation on co-incinerators or the specific treatment of hazardous waste risk creating cost distortions or even causing unjustified transportation of waste elsewhere .
the people of europe are under the impression that special , hazardous , non-hazardous and municipal waste will all be mixed together and undergo common treatment in the same kiln and in the same plant .
davies report ( a5-0062 / 2000 ) this debate on air quality concerns the particular problem of ozone in ambient air , as set out in the davies report .
it aims to amend the existing community legislation on ozone in accordance with the requirements of council directive 96 / 62 / ec on ambient air quality assessment and management .
it also introduces a framework of standards to protect human health and the environment .
the directive will therefore provide a benchmark for the levels of ozone in ambient air .
in setting long-term objectives , the commission proposes to use the 1997 world health organisation air quality guidelines .
the ultimate aim is to prevent these long-term objectives being exceeded and thereby avoid harmful effects on human health and the environment .
these are also based on the who guidelines , but it is accepted that these will be exceeded on a number of days each year .
success in meeting these commitments should enable member states to be more ambitious regarding target values for the reduction of ozone levels .
myller report ( a5-0063 / 2000 ) we are today debating a legislative proposal which affects us all directly as it aims to improve ambient air quality .
this proposed directive concerns national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants and comes under the framework directive on air quality .
the main objective is to limit emissions of acidifying and eutrophying pollutants and ozone precursors in order to improve the protection of the environment and human health against adverse effects from acidification , soil eutrophication and tropospheric ozone .
member states are therefore required to draw up programmes for the progressive reduction of their annual national emissions and report these to the commission before the end of 2002 .
the programmes are to be updated and revised by 2006 .
member states are also required to prepare , and regularly update , national emission inventories and emission projections for 2010 for so2 , nox , vocs and nh3 .
the report also asks the commission to propose new amendments to the directive by 2004 .
the commission could , in this way , revise the ceilings set in the text , the interim environmental targets and the new measures adopted to ensure respect for these ceilings .
in the same respect , penalties applicable to infringements of the directive ' s provisions must be established as quickly as possible .
we have chosen to vote against amendments nos 16 and 17 , because these proposals , in a much too general and undifferentiated way , relieve small member states of the need to achieve the environmental goals that have been established .
the preparation of a coherent and coordinated strategy involving all the member states is therefore essential .
i also welcome the idea of setting quantified objectives and benchmarks , in particular an annual average growth rate in the eu of 3 % and a level of employment of 70 % .
the presidency ' s document also stresses the necessary reinforcement of social convergence and the modernisation of our social protection systems .
the victims of long-term unemployment and social exclusion , and there are over 60 million of them , and european workers as a whole , have no intention of showing themselves to be ' mutually supportive ' , ' adaptable ' , ' docile ' and ' cooperative ' in their choices , as you will have them be .
racism , xenophobia and antisemitism are a depressing problem , including within the european union .
the way in which the social causes of racism in candidate countries and the highly significant social and employment policy consequences of a consistent anti-racist policy have been dealt with appears to me to be too general .
madam president , the presentation by the council of a first eu annual report on human rights was a welcome contribution to the on-going debate .
in particular i welcome the information it contains regarding the eu-china human rights dialogue .
while this dialogue can and does play a role in the transformation of human rights issues in china , it will only bear fruit if the european union speaks and acts as one .
too often in the past eu member states have allowed themselves to be blackmailed by china .
attempts to compromise are always interpreted as weakness by bullies , and china is such a bully .
the most basic violation of human rights is the denial of each individual ' s right to live decently .
everyone must be protected from poverty and exclusion .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , once again we are devoting part of our time in this chamber to one of the most honourable aspects of our parliamentary work : the defence of human rights of all kinds and in all parts of the world .
while we may not be able to devote to each report the time its importance would merit , we can safely say , when we discuss human rights elsewhere , in the rest of the world , that we have not omitted to carry out a serious analysis of shortcomings here in the european union itself .
whilst it is a fact - fortunately - that we here in the european union are not faced with the gross violations that we rather unjustly criticise in other states , our own member states still need to improve the way they respect these rights , economic and social rights , civil and political rights , with particular reference to respect for privacy and data protection for individuals , children ' s rights , women ' s rights and the rights of refugees who are immigrants here .
with regard to third countries it is vital , and urgent , for the european union to have a common strategy - to be prepared by the council in consultation with this parliament - which should consistently shape all the european union ' s policies , and in particular its development cooperation policy .
it makes no sense in terms of realpolitik for us to be more demanding in some areas than in others , for us to be more indulgent of some states than of others , and for us to pursue cooperation policies with some states that do not respect fundamental human rights , and where the rule of law has broken down and serious transgressions go unpunished .
if we continue to give political and economic support to countries where this is happening , we will be condoning regimes that do not respect human rights , countries where we can legitimately question whether community aid is reaching the people whose development we are endeavouring to promote , or whether we are simply maintaining the vanity , opulence and secret bank accounts of a handful of leaders .
even if we disagree on a report on racism , the reasons lie not in racism in parliament but in the report itself .
for example , the report not only contains laudable words on the fight against racism ; it also deals with matters such as the voting rights of third country nationals in specific countries or the right to hold public office , which may be decided one way or the other , but which have nothing whatsoever to do with racism .
i stand firmly against the way in which racism has been played down , as we have said , to make it a subject of political debate .
i wish to make two comments with respect to the reports in front of us ; one on the belder report , which contains a version of an amendment which i have tabled concerning the treatment of the russian-speaking minorities in estonia and latvia .
secondly , the ludford report has a series of amendments tabled by the christian democrats challenging a series of paragraphs that were originally in the evregenis report 15 years ago - and were approved by the christian democrats then - on the amendment of the staff regulations to allow ethnic minority members to join the european community staff .
on voting rights , on the selection of ethnic minority candidates , what i do not understand is whether they have no institutional memory or whether , a more sinister development , their political position has changed .
and when sarah ludford says the report refers to the year 2000 , then she must be clairvoyant because it has only just begun .
secondly , we are against all the points which fly in the face of the basic principle of solidarity .
thirdly , matters are addressed which have no place in this report , such as the voting rights of third country nationals in european elections or local elections .
as an austrian , i cannot accept a report which takes exception to my country in a most unqualified and most unjustified manner and which expressly welcomes and supports party-politically motivated action and unjustified boycotting measures by the fourteen .
madam president , i notice that you have not called mr hernandez mollar , who had asked me to speak on his behalf .
madam president , the debate on xenophobia and racism is always of great importance , politically and socially .
the ludford report contains points which are highly acceptable and which any democrat can and must ratify , but also contains other points which are less than rigorous from a political and even from a legal point of view .
the member states regulate the political rights of their citizens in accordance with their own democratic laws , as also happens in many of the countries of origin of the citizens who emigrate to the european union .
to ask for political participation in local , national or european elections , or even access to the civil service for people who are not nationals of the member states , without even coming to a reciprocal arrangement , is politically unrealistic and displays a lack of legal rigour .
however , that firm and unequivocal will must be exercised in a manner which is legally rigorous and , above all , based on common sense .
the tiniest hint of racism , intolerance or xenophobia must be eradicated in any member state in which it may occur .
however , the administrative status of the resident is not the same as the political status of the citizen .
in a political sense , the citizens of the union are classed as such by virtue of being citizens of one of the member states and this allows them to enjoy full political participation and , in particular , to express themselves in elections , to take collective representative responsibility of an electoral nature and to compete for permanent posts in the public administrations .
the european union must offer a generous welcome , and must be open to all people who wish to contribute , through their efforts and their work , to our general prosperity or who seek asylum or refuge from oppression or persecution .
however , full political citizenship must be acquired in accordance with the laws of each member state .
in his celebrated lecture at the sorbonne entitled " what is a nation ? " ernest renan warned us : " let us not abandon the principle that man is first and foremost a rational and moral being , before speaking any particular language , before being a member of any particular race , before belonging to any particular culture " .
the report raises many relevant points .
many indeed , such as the issue of racism and discrimination in the candidate countries , require a great deal of attention .
however , in my contribution , i would like to home in on the predicament of the roma people , otherwise known as gypsies .
many roma in the candidate member states live in extremely abject conditions .
we want the european union to get more directly involved in order to address the problems of the roma .
not only the european commission but also this parliament would do well to pay a lot more attention to this .
roma often live in areas where everyone is struggling .
local communities and local governments play a key role in solving the problems of the roma .
in my opinion , official recognition of the roma as a minority could help them to achieve more political independence .
in addition , there is a need for more specific action aimed at changing people ' s mentality .
i also advocate sound cooperation between the european union and the council of europe .
finally , i would like to underline that , more than anything , there is a great need for tangible results in the short term .
we must address the problems facing the roma in the candidate member states themselves , which is , after all , where they live .
if the european union wants to enlarge and become an authoritative reference system for the international community , we do indeed need a strong , coherent reaction from the european institutions , but there is also the need for each of us to transcend his own national political interests and focus on the good of the union as a whole by voting responsibly , in both political and , more importantly , humane terms on these issues .
all four reports on which we shall be voting are good reports .
i am tempted for the sake of quality , and because i wish to participate and because i agree , to read two paragraphs , two proposals relating to two candidate countries .
the second group which i should like to mention are the kurds .
but even if the kurds are not recognised as a minority and turkey is not prepared to grant them any collective rights , it must acknowledge that it is violating the kurds ' individual rights and their cultural freedom , their freedom of expression as well as their economic freedoms and rights .
i therefore think it extremely important that we help the kurds gain their rights in a reasonable and peaceful manner .
the third group which i should like to make special mention of is to be found mainly in estonia and latvia .
the monitoring centre for racism and xenophobia will open in vienna on 7 april .
i personally have asked the president of the european parliament on behalf of my group to ensure that this date is adhered to because , objectively-speaking , i consider it to be a very important date , irrespective of the current situation in austria .
i hope that this institution will not only be supported and will attract a great deal of publicity and attention on the day of its inauguration , but that parliament , the council and the commission will actively support it in years to come .
as the portuguese presidency , that is the portuguese prime minister , acted as a channel for the position that 14 countries of the european union expressed as regards their bilateral relations with austria , i would like to be very clear about the following point : we do not have any criticism to make about how austria has behaved at international level , and in particular about how austria has fulfilled its duties and obligations within the european union .
austria has undeniably been a country that has met its european union obligations .
this cannot be viewed as a matter of indifference to the other countries .
when we advocate the need for political life in austria to be in accordance with the values and principles promoted by the european union , and which austria has also undertaken to promote at european union level , we are not trying to interfere in member states ' internal affairs .
we believe that political precautions of this kind are possibly the best way of warding off future problems , and in particular the ghosts from the past that may return to haunt us in europe .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , with regard to external relations , we believe that the european union now has a solid set of values which the deepening process is bound to improve , particularly by means of these reports .
whilst we all oppose racism , and i think that is a statement everyone in this chamber will accept , i am not so sure that we can all reach agreement in practice on concrete measures to combat racism .
and although we may all say that we oppose xenophobia , i am not sure if we can all agree on active steps to integrate foreign citizens into the european union and accept measures to protect the interests of foreign citizens within the european union .
if there is a will within the union to extend this charter to foreign citizens living within the european union , we will be giving a signal that we are starting our action against xenophobia by putting our own house in order , with measures that we ourselves have decided to implement at internal political level .
furthermore , as regards antidiscrimination and the various forms of discrimination identified in the various reports , a great many differing measures obviously exist .
and we know that even when it comes to internal legislation within our member states , there are major differences in the way some of these questions are dealt with .
we need to keep this question on our agenda , and that is the rationale and the significance of this debate .
finally , i would like to conclude this speech by drawing attention to the set of measures already adopted in the council of the european union and the various community actions it has implemented .
it was not easy to reach a consensus : when we were negotiating the treaty of amsterdam , and i took part in those negotiations , it was not easy to reach a consensus on including the various measures now covered in articles 6 and 7 .
however , i would also like to draw attention to an initiative that will , symbolically , take place in vienna on 8 april - the launch of the european monitoring centre for racism and xenophobia .
i think the first annual report of this new european parliament is thorough and timely .
timely , because i hope that before the summer break this equally new commission will adopt a communication on human rights in external policies .
it will cover many of the areas in the report and all the european parliament 's recommendations provide extremely useful input for our work .
i cannot respond to all of the points in the report at this stage .
instead i will pursue them , including discussions with the european parliament , over the coming months so that we get the communication right and reflect the important arguments in this report .
beijing confirmed that women 's rights are universal human rights and that women have a central role to play in building democratic and just societies .
women are explicitly included as a target group for support .
issues such as violence against women have been rightly categorised as issues of human rights .
as such , they should be promoted vigorously as part and parcel of our foreign policy and development assistance .
our programmes daphne and stop are the mainstay of the commission 's response .
daphne has supported the sharing of information and good practice amongst ngos and member states through more than 100 transnational projects .
the commission is also working with others to halt the heinous trafficking of women which has been growing in the last few years .
as for children 's rights , the stop programme has co-financed 67 projects dealing with trafficking and sexual exploitation of children with a budget of eur 6.5 m for the first five years .
a new stop programme is planned to start from this year and this will be open to accession countries .
my aim is to adopt a more effective and coherent approach to policy and to spending and in particular to improve the management of our programmes in this area .
human rights projects are very different from projects to build bridges or reinforce primary education .
those who implement the projects may even see their own rights threatened , which is no doubt why ngos often feel a little aggrieved that they then have to provide the commission with a shoebox full of receipts when they return to the office .
reform to our procedures , many of them determined by member states in an era when ngos barely existed , is going to take time but we are working on it , not least as part of the overall reform package .
this brings me on to the budget and the parliament 's proposal for a joint declaration on yearly increases in human rights expenditure .
the possibility of creating a human rights agency as foreseen in vienna and cologne could help us here .
i now turn to the issues raised in the belder report which responds to the commission ' s communication on countering racism , xenophobia and antisemitism in the candidate countries .
of course , it criticises the lack of specific proposals in the commission ' s communication but i should note that the adoption of that communication came after the resignation of the college in march 1999 when the commission , and i put this gently , was not best placed to elaborate new proposals .
the fight against racism is an essential element of the union ' s human rights policies and of the pre-accession strategy .
this has two main elements : adoption and implementation of the acquis by candidate countries including the 1996 joint action concerning racism and xenophobia and the 1951 geneva convention and the 1967 new york protocol on asylum seekers and refugees , and effective use of our cooperation programmes .
the compatibility of legislation concerning minorities is raised during the screening process and during bilateral discussions and in association committees .
for example , we have looked at language laws in lithuania , estonia and slovakia , a subject that was raised during the debates , and legislation regarding the roma in the czech republic and slovakia .
the second element , our cooperation programmes , include the phare national programmes , phare democracy and the meda programme .
the goal of raising police awareness of racism and xenophobia was also incorporated in the framework of the european curriculum for the training of the police in central and eastern europe .
one central aim common to the malmstrom and the belder reports is the need to build on our relationship with ngos in candidate countries .
the new access programme which replaces the lien and partnership programmes aims to strengthen civil society .
we intend to be associated with the meeting to be organised by the european monitoring centre to which european parliament representatives are being invited - a meeting called in order to stimulate ideas for improving european union assistance to roma communities .
these reports cover extremely important issues .
they are issues of increasing concern to european union citizens as they are daily assailed by media footage of human rights abuses , whether they be in the caucasus , colombia , the balkans , sierra leone , china and so on .
i look forward to the european union taking up these abuses at the un commission on human rights in geneva , which i will attend on 27 march .
but evincing an interest also means , in my view , obtaining objective information about a country and levying criticism where criticism is due and then taking measures when transgressions have taken place and not preventatively or , where possible , on the grounds of political persuasion .
if you want to know who elected this party which forms part of the coalition , namely the freedom party , then the answer is that 50 % of the workers who used to vote for socialism have now voted for this party and that half the youth of austria voted for this party .
i call on the president of the council on behalf of my group to continue to be as vigilant and critical of racism and xenophobia as you have demonstrated here , in whatever capacity .
madam president , i am grateful for this opportunity to clarify once again the capacity in which i made those observations .
let there be no mistake : the statement by the president of the european council and portuguese prime minister was made on behalf of the 14 countries in the european union apart from austria .
the 14 countries ' three levels of response as regards austria are therefore bilateral in nature .
the fact that this was channelled through the president of the council was merely a question of coordinating the joint position of the various countries .
no formal aspect of the european union ' s operational framework has come into play during the portuguese presidency in relation to the austrian situation .
with regard to the political question which the honourable member has put to me about the attitude of the member states towards the effective operation of the austrian government , i would like to stress a point which has not always been sufficiently emphasised in relation to austria : the current situation does not represent ' business as usual ' , neither for austria in general nor for austria ' s political life .
in this context and as the personal representative of the commission president to the convention responsible for preparing this charter , i must defend the view that the charter should be extended to third country nationals legally resident on the territory of member states .
the commission is also pleased to note that its views are basically in agreement with those of the european parliament on the nature and content of this charter .
the conclusions of the tampere european council provide a very clear political framework for the eu ' s policy on respecting and promoting migrants ' rights in the broad sense of the term .
the heads of state and government underlined that the joint policies on immigration and asylum to be developed on the basis of the amsterdam treaty should be founded on principles which are clear to the people and which offer guarantees to those seeking protection in the european union or requesting access to its territory .
i wish to confirm the importance which the union and its member states attach to absolute respect for the right to ask for asylum on the basis of a full and comprehensive application of the geneva convention .
finally , although these measures are needed to guarantee social peace in our member states , we must recognise that the fight against illegal immigration must be strengthened and the protection of the rights of the victims of the criminal networks organising such immigration must be guaranteed .
however , at the same time , the commission intends , in the autumn , to submit to parliament a communication on immigration policy in the european union .
we must review the 1994 communication and update the approach to the questions of immigration policy in the union in light of the tampere conclusions .
we have also proposed making the very important brussels convention of 1968 on jurisdiction and the enforcement of judgements in civil and commercial matters into a regulation .
all these instruments are currently being examined by the council .
these measures will aim to go beyond the joint action of february 1997 .
they will consist of definitions , charges and penalties in the fight against the trade in human beings for the purposes of sexual exploitation and measures against the sexual exploitation of children .
article 7 of the treaty on european union introduces new powers to react in case of serious and persistent breaches of fundamental rights by a member state .
my message today , in the follow-up to the ludford report , is that we still hope that parliament will give priority to giving its opinion on this package so that we can adopt the two directives and the action plan by the end of this year .
as you know , the package of proposals that the commission has put forward consists of two directives and an action programme .
the two draft directives provide a legislative framework for legally enforceable rights including provisions on a number of key issues such as protection against harassment , scope for positive action , appropriate remedies and enforcement measures .
although it is important , the article 13 package is only part of an on-going process to develop new ways of tackling racial discrimination .
we intend to keep pushing the process forward , through the structural funds , the research framework programme , the european employment strategy , the new equal initiative and the new social action programme which we hope to adopt in the summer .
we intend to use all these instruments to fight discrimination and , as you know , work has also started on the european charter of fundamental rights .
i will conclude as i have started : the charter will represent the high priority that the union as a whole accords to the fight against racism and discrimination and to protection of human rights .
i sincerely hope that , during our debate on this issue next year , we will be congratulating ourselves on achieving , with the charter , a new tool to fight against racism and xenophobia in the union .
two heads of government , mr president-in-office , have already been reprimanded by their parliaments for the steps which they initiated against austria .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at noon .
mr president-in-office of the council , firstly i would like to thank the presidency-in-office of the council for their high level presence in this house and for their positive attitude .
last year , this parliament was consulted twice about the establishment of a system for comparing fingerprints .
in principle , the system is intended to correctly implement the dublin convention .
on 13 april 1999 , this parliament rejected the council ' s proposal to extend the eurodac system to illegal immigrants by means of a protocol .
this parliament was then consulted again in accordance with the provisions of amsterdam .
we were once again told that this system has to be developed in order to correctly implement the dublin convention .
this seems all very well to me , with the limits introduced by parliament in its last report , with the amendments which ranged from our reservations about the inclusion of children under 14 in the system to the request that this eurodac system be only applied to the dublin convention .
given that we have been informed that none of our suggestions are going to be accepted , i would like to ask the council whether it is prepared to hold a genuine dialogue with parliament .
we are beginning to build and implement the instruments for the ' communitisation ' of the area of freedom , security and justice and , as we will never tire of saying in this house , this cannot be done without the national parliaments and without the european parliament , because these issues are far too important to the citizens not to be endorsed through a strong social consensus .
the other question i would like to ask the council is whether it agrees that this system should be administrated by the commission , in which case the commission should be provided with adequate staff and resources .
i await your responses to this question and i would like to thank you once again for coming to answer this oral question before the debate on the new eurodac regulations , which i hope will also reach this house .
we highlighted all these problems in a resolution by parliament .
mr president , esteemed commissioners , mr president-in-office of the council , the debate on eurodac and the implementation of this system is something of a never ending story .
in other words , it is , as a whole , a system which must be seen as very positive and absolutely necessary in the context of asylum and immigration policy and the responsibility of the member states .
as regards the role of the european commission , article 3 of the proposal for a regulation clearly defines that a central unit shall be set up within the commission .
in addition , i would like to remind you that all the justice and home affairs council ' s proposals on this matter have been presented to this house , which has , in fact , given its opinion on this matter on three occasions : 15 january 1998 , 18 march 1999 and 11 november 1999 .
at present , as you know , and for reasons that are not entirely relevant to this issue , but have more to do with other circumstances of a political nature , it has not been possible to reach a consensus within the council on the new proposal to be submitted to this house .
with regard to the other questions raised here , the first was the minimum age for taking fingerprints , which has been set at 14 years .
i recognise that there are some concerns about this , but i would like to say that this is in line with the practices followed in member states , which in some cases even allow fingerprints to be taken from children under 14 .
the purpose of the dublin convention and eurodac is to allocate to a single member state responsibility for examining an asylum application , and the justification for the proposed regulation is that there is a need to extend fingerprinting to certain categories of illegal immigrants on the grounds that a substantial number of them will have claimed asylum previously or intend to do so .
the problem is that some have not and will not , so this means that the proposed regulation goes beyond the strict terms of dublin by guessing at or anticipating the existence of an asylum application .
member states are required to fingerprint every third-country national over 14 who is apprehended in connection with the irregular crossing of their border - that is not very precise .
it is perfectly clear that there is abuse , for example in connection with asylum claims .
the number of people applying for asylum on grounds which have nothing to do with political persecution far outweighs the number of applicants recognised as victims of political persecution .
given that we are now discussing a charter of fundamental rights and yesterday , for instance , a report on human rights , could we really live within a fortress europe outside , or even inside , which rights might be being violated ?
we are using and establishing instruments before we have developed a proper harmonised policy on the right to freedom of movement , the right to live as a family and the right of asylum .
this raises a vital question about the democratic credit granted to the members of the european parliament .
with eurodac , the commission and the council are , in my view , going too far in their desire to monitor asylum seekers and other citizens of third countries who cross the border into fortress europe .
keeping fingerprints for up to ten years , even if the person concerned has not committed any offence and even if they have perhaps , into the bargain , obtained legal residence in the area of the union , is a violation of the demand under the european convention on human rights for respect for private life .
mr president , on behalf of the union for a europe of nations group , i should like to express my confidence in the council ' s handling of this matter and , in common with others , i want to urge the council now to make a decision about establishing eurodac .
i cannot imagine that either the council or the commission might wish to construct this system in such a way that it could include restrictions of any kind upon the freedom of law-abiding citizens .
mr president , the back-peddling in relation to the adoption of the eurodac system has given rise to numerous , logical questions concerning both the expediency and the efficiency of the system for the comparison of the fingerprints of applicants for asylum which complements the dublin convention .
in other words , extending the system to asylum seekers automatically identifies refugees and immigrants as a whole with crime and illegality , which i think is quite unfair and goes beyond every concept of international law and respect for human rights as demanded in the geneva convention , the 50th anniversary of which we celebrated in this morning ' s extended debate here in the european parliament .
in all events , the european parliament is calling for the right to exercise parliamentary scrutiny , in which case the council and the commission will have the final word on the matter .
however , i think that the best thing the european commission and the council can do is to institute a common asylum and immigration policy based on european humanitarian and democratic values and respect for human rights .
mr president , the commission would like to welcome , first of all , the very clear statement issued by the representative of the council to the effect that the eurodac system is only a system conceived to implement the dublin convention .
i would also like to confirm , as the representative of the council has already said , that there is a problem concerning the territorial application of the eurodac regulation .
nevertheless , this is a very sensitive issue , as the debate has already shown , and one of the few cases where the three institutions do not have the same position , as i very clearly stated before parliament .
we considered that 14 years old is an adequate solution .
it is inconceivable for me that my country is one which criminalises all children of 10 years of age just because they are fingerprinted for their first identity card .
we will come to parliament and the council with proposals in the next few months .
we want to launch a debate not only on the technical questions of eurodac but also on the essential solutions to the current dublin convention .
the proposal of the commission is that the executive powers , the implementing powers of the system , should be delegated to the commission , associated with a committee composed of representatives from all member states .
in our opinion this will be a more coherent and transparent way of managing the system and reinforcing the capability of parliament to scrutinise the way the commission manages and develops the eurodac system .
maybe through this balanced solution it will be possible to address in a more relaxed and trusting way some of the reservations and political doubts that have been raised by several members of parliament during this debate .
we support the commission in its implied criticism of the member states which have failed to do their homework but deeply regret that we are again in a situation in which we are unable to implement amendments and improvements to a control system which has been accepted and entered into force because the member states have failed to carry out their duties .
the commission has , however , left itself with an escape clause by asking for a further transitional period of three years under the provisions of the agreement with the council in the council decision on comitology of 28 june 1999 and we in parliament consider that somewhat unusual .
we tabled a proposed amendment seeking to reduce this period to two years and it became clear during discussions with the commission that it too was willing to go along with this proposed amendment .
if the commission and the council are able to adopt our amendments , we can shorten the procedure which , given that we have been in a legal grey area since 1 july 1999 , is a reasonable step .
in the case of the pig sector the export trade is also suffering because during the past two years the pig industry has experienced acute difficulties .
if britain is once again to reactivate a dynamic intra-community trade in bovine animals and swine , then immediate help is required to alleviate the catastrophic situation affecting rural britain and affecting our pig and beef sectors in particular .
mr president , i would like to join previous speakers in congratulating the rapporteur .
mr president , this proposal introduces an extension of a current exemption to directive 64 / 432 applicable to the spanish government .
this exemption has important implications for my country .
in order to avoid ending up in the european court of justice , my government has had to recruit large numbers of eu vets , 300 of whom come from spain .
with a cattle population in ireland of between 7 and 8 million in recent years , some 10.5 million tb tests have been undertaken annually in some 138 000 herds .
the point i would like to ask the commissioner to consider particularly is the fact that the only test provided for in the eu and under irish legislation is the single intradermal comparative test as specified in directive 64 / 432 of the ec .
the gamma-interferon test is the most promising of these , and is used under practical field conditions as an adjunct to the tuberculin test in herds .
mr president , may i first of all thank you for the interest you have devoted to the commission proposal modifying directive 64 / 432 on health problems affecting intra-community trade in bovine animals and swine .
member states encountered serious trade problems when implementing the updated animal health rules for intra-community trade laid down in directive 64 / 432 that came into force on 1 july last year .
in order to facilitate the change-over to the new rules the commission , based on articles 37 and 152 of the treaty , proposed amendments to the directive that include transitional measures to solve the most acute trade problems , minor corrections and clarifications in the annexes and a general mandate to the commission to lay down transitional measures in accordance with the new comitology procedure included in the proposal .
the first amendment requires the member states to ensure full implementation of the directive and the member states and the commission to execute controls on the implementation .
the second amendment seeks to restrict the period of application of transitional measures to two years .
it modifies the comitology procedure by proposing for implementing measures relating to article 37 to introduce a management procedure with the right of scrutiny .
i regret that i cannot accept your new amendment which replaces article 17 and 17a by a single new article comprising the entire comitology procedure .
it introduces a regulatory committee with the right of scrutiny for parliament and i quote from the letter which he sent me : " in the case of a codecision procedure based on article 251 , article 8 thereof " - that is article 8 of council decision 99 / 468 on comitology .
the framework for the comitology procedure is clearly established in the abovementioned council decision .
the right of scrutiny for the parliament is foreseen for areas relating to codecision , that is article 8 .
the amended directive 64 / 432 is based on articles 37 and 152 of the treaty .
i refer you to article 3 of the directive in particular which amends article 16 of the original where it says : " where necessary to facilitate the change-over to the new arrangements provided for in this directive the commission , acting in accordance with the procedures laid down in article 17a , may adopt transitional measures applicable for a period of not more than three years " .
therefore , the power that is given to the commission to further extend the period of time which is contained in article 3 clearly identifies article 17a as being the appropriate article to deal with this which incorporates article 8 of the council decision of last june , thereby giving parliament full scrutiny powers in relation to any such proposal .
where reference is made in the current version of 64 / 432 to article 17 , this relates to implementing measures concerning animal health , that is based on article 37 which are of no or , in very few cases , of very remote , public health concern .
therefore these measures should not be subject to the right of scrutiny of parliament .
the implementing powers of the commission are laid down in article 202 , third indent of the ec treaty in conjunction with the council decision 99 / 468 that i earlier referred to which is the appropriate council decision laying down the appropriate procedure for comitology .
this system aims clearly at defining exactly the respective role of the executive and legislative power in the basic legislative instrument .
consequently , in the basic legislative act it has to be made clear from the outset which implementing measures are based on codecision procedures , that is , article 152 and which provisions do not have as their direct objective the protection of public health and would therefore not be subject to parliament 's right of scrutiny .
the wording proposed in the new amendment for the regulatory procedure with the right of scrutiny , and i quote : " in the case of the codecision procedure based on article 251 , article 8 thereof " leads to legal uncertainty and is not in line with the agreed implementation of council 's comitology decision .
i am firmly committed to the procedure of codecision and i am firmly committed to the procedures laid down in comitology .
however , it is in the interest of all the institutions that the procedures are clearly defined and transparent for everybody .
there is a significant risk that if the matter is proceeded with in this way and if the council votes in accordance with the proposal put forward by the commission , the matter will go to second reading , thereby creating further delays .
it has come to my attention as late as today , in consultation with members of the committee on agriculture and rural development , that there is a concern which i was unaware of : of the interaction between articles 37 and 152 .
i have made it clear that i am prepared to respond quickly to any invitation that the committee might wish to extend to me to discuss this important constitutional issue of the interaction between article 37 and article 152 .
secondly , on the issue relating to comitology , i can only repeat what i said which is that in any basic legal text which authorises the commission to amend that text by comitology , that text must itself identify what procedure is being adopted .
from that text it will be clear what comitology procedure is the appropriate one to follow : whether it is article 17 in the version suggested by the commission which applies to all of the circumstances in this particular directive , or article 17 ( a ) which incorporates the scrutiny procedure of the comitology , and which is appropriate to the circumstances set out in article 3 - that is , where there is a further extension of time beyond 31 december 2000 and where the commission can extend it for a further period as we have discussed .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
question time ( council ) the next item is question time ( b5-0201 / 2000 ) .
as regards the specific question of trafficking in women , which is covered in the chapter on violence against women , the objectives are very clear .
various measures are to be taken by the governments of the countries of origin , transit and destination of the regional and international organisations , and mrs aviles perea is quite right in drawing attention to the violation of women ' s safety and dignity in europe by the threat posed by trafficking .
firstly , starting in november 1993 , the justice and home affairs council agreed a series of recommendations on trade in human beings for prostitution , with a view to combating trafficking in human beings .
two years after that , this house took on this subject : apart from adopting a number of resolutions , it also produced a report and a resolution which specifically addressed trafficking in human beings .
for its part , the commission published an initial communication on trafficking in women and , in 1996 , that is to say the year immediately after the beijing platform was adopted , it launched the stop programme , with an annual budget of eur 6.5 million .
thirdly , back in 1996 , the commission and the international organisation for migration organised an interdisciplinary conference in vienna , which brought together representatives from member states , the institutions , the european union , the academic world , and various non-governmental organisations .
lastly , also in 1996 , the council approved a common action to combat trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children .
in 1997 , the ministerial conference in the hague resulted in the hague ministerial declaration on a european code of conduct to prevent and combat trafficking in women for the purpose of sexual exploitation .
lastly , in 1998 , the commission adopted a further communication on new measures to combat trafficking in women .
this issue has , of course , been a regular agenda item in contacts with the countries of central and eastern europe which are both transit countries and even the countries of origin for the great majority of this traffic .
in any case , this problem needs to be taken very seriously , not just because of the number of people involved , but also because trafficking in women is a form of organised crime that is evidently on the increase throughout the world , as it generates high profits in return for relatively low risks as far as the traffickers are concerned .
the member states of the european union are also playing a very active role in the meeting of the united nations commission on the status of women which is preparing the united nations general assembly special session on women .
to conclude , i would like to reiterate that the council continues to attach great importance to the issue of trafficking in women and children , and i hope that i have been able to allay some of your fears , mrs aviles perea , at least in relation to the council ' s efforts in this field .
i believe that an effort has been made over recent years , but i must insist that it requires special attention now and we must prevent such problems in the future , since it is possible that this problem will become even more acute .
we believe that the work that has been done , and the increasing awareness on the part of the candidate countries of the need to work with the european union during the pre-accession period to strengthen control mechanisms , combined with collaboration in this field , may yield concrete results .
the commission is paying particular attention to this subject , and i believe that the fact that during the portuguese presidency various negotiating chapters linked with this - particularly in the field of justice and home affairs and freedom of movement - are to be opened with the luxembourg phase candidate countries may help to create a common culture , a common culture that the candidate countries will later on have to share in terms of respecting the acquis communautaire .
question no 2 by ( h-0148 / 00 ) : subject : articles 6 and 7 of the treaty on european union on 2 february the commission told the ep that it intends to monitor austria , following the entry of the fpo into government , pursuant to articles 6 and 7 of the eu treaty .
in its resolution of 3 february 2000 the ep ' calls on the council and commission to be prepared , in the event of any violation of the principles of fundamental rights laid out in article 6 ( 1 ) of the treaty on european union , to take action under article 7 of the treaty .. ' .
mr president , this question has already been broached here more than once .
we have to recognise that the austrian situation in particular , and the issues raised in this question concerning italy and belgium , are quite different from what is envisaged in articles 6 and 7 of the treaty of amsterdam .
article 6 of the treaty of amsterdam - and it is very important to make this point , as the treaties are breaking fresh ground here - states that the union is founded on the principles of liberty , democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms , and the rule of law .
although we all know that the european union is not a signatory to the european convention on human rights , the same article compensates for this by stating that the european union respects fundamental rights as guaranteed by the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms .
as for article 7 , which is in fact a portuguese proposal that i was able to present to the reflection group which prepared the previous intergovernmental conference , this article establishes a specific mechanism , and this is the point to which the honourable member ' s question refers , for taking action against any member state which seriously and persistently breaches the principles mentioned in the previous article , article 6 .
i have to say that the facts that mr dupuis refers to in his question do not represent a violation of any of the principles mentioned in article 6 of the treaty .
the existence of a violation of a principle mentioned in article 6 must - and this is also an important point and the reason why no mechanism has been brought into play - be determined by the council acting on a proposal by one third of the member states or by the commission and after obtaining the assent of the european parliament .
with regard to the council statement made on 2 february , i would like to repeat , as i was the one who presented this declaration in this house , that it was made by the council presidency , but on behalf of 14 member states , and of course the consequences of that statement and of its content as regards relations with austria are only binding on each member state on a bilateral basis .
they do not bind the council and they do not affect the free and normal functioning of the community institutions , in which austria is still participating in full .
we still have an almost purely national framework for justice , although certain situations are in practice clearly of a transnational nature .
mr president-in-office of the council , i should like to thank you expressly for stating during question time that austria has not been found guilty of violating articles 6 and 7 and that , in the case of austria , it is a preventive sentence .
mr casaca , i can assure you that despite everything i am not pessimistic about the way in which the european union has been progressing towards establishing an ethical dimension , and in particular towards equipping itself with legal mechanisms to enable it to cope with new situations such as the ones you have mentioned .
when it comes to the development of the treaty of amsterdam , i think it is important for us to bear in mind that transfers of power have taken place , and that further transfers of power remain to be made over the next five years from what was the old third pillar to the first pillar of the union , particularly as regards visas , judicial cooperation in civil matters and customs cooperation .
we still have judicial cooperation in criminal matters under the third pillar , but at the moment we are working towards establishing a european area of freedom , security and justice , and we hope that the commission can respond to this by presenting a scoreboard giving us a catalogue of pertinent measures .
on the other hand , i would like to stress that the european charter of fundamental rights that is being discussed will very probably help to strengthen these new aspects and will certainly help to give the european union a more solid body of legally arguable principles , which some of us , and the council in particular , would like to see .
as for your question about austria , i would like to repeat what i said about austria ' s compliance with articles 6 and 7 up to now .
i think mrs kauppi must have misheard or there must have been a mistake in the interpreting .
any country can disassociate itself from the declaration made by the 14 countries .
the same freedom that led them to stand together could lead them to part company tomorrow if they had a different view of developments in austria .
i would like to make it clear that austria has been totally involved and will continue to be one hundred per cent involved in all the formal workings of the european union ' s institutions .
question no 3 by ( h-0151 / 00 ) : subject : " energy for democracy " - fry the current winter is one of the severest in recent decades , with several european countries having been hard hit .
this measure was intended to send a message of support to democratic forces and to encourage those within the republic of yugoslavia who , despite the adverse conditions they face , are committed to an approach in keeping with the defence of democratic rights and to policies in the interests of the people of yugoslavia .
this programme started with two local authorities where the opposition held power .
the european union subsequently decided , acting on proposals from various member states , to extend this system to five other municipalities .
we hope that this signal from the european union will be heard by democratic forces in serbia .
the point is whether or not a country has the right to decide its fate and choose its government .
but we want this to mean access to the media , total freedom of expression for the opposition , unrestricted individual rights , freedoms and guarantees , the rule of law and total transparency in the institutions .
mrs diez gonzalez , you have asked an important question , but i have to confess that the council does not have the information you have requested about the number of european union citizens condemned to death in other countries .
this cooperation between the missions of member states will also cover information sharing on citizens who may be threatened with the death penalty .
mr president-in-office of the council , i am grateful for your words but not for their content .
this cannot be due to lack of time because i asked this question to the council three months ago and it did not reply in writing .
i know that we require the commitment of the member states , but do you not think that what we basically need is a political will which , until now , i have not seen from any quarter ?
the european union is indeed , as you have said , a world power , and it is establishing various instruments and mechanisms to strengthen its position and to properly protect the rights of its citizens in other countries .
a systematic approach for consular cooperation and for coordinated consular action has only been developed in the last few years .
mr president , article 101 of the euratom treaty provides the legal basis for international nuclear agreements , as is the case with the european atomic energy community ' s accession agreement to the korean peninsula energy development organisation or kedo .
this article provides that agreements or contracts with third countries shall be negotiated by the commission in accordance with the directives of the council , and are to be concluded by the commission with the approval of the council , which shall act by a qualified majority .
to sum up , your questions raise some sensitive problems which , as we know , have been discussed in this house in recent years in the context of increasing its powers , and parliament has been using its budgetary authority as a legitimate source of pressure .
as regards the specific instance of kedo , let me remind you that in 1998 parliament blocked the funds for that year , and it was only possible to overcome this problem by means of a compromise with the commission , in which the commission undertook to inform parliament , at the beginning of each year , about euratom agreements being negotiated , so that parliament could consider them .
question no 6 by ( h-0160 / 00 ) : subject : compensation for victims of fascist war many rulings by greek courts have confirmed that greek citizens are entitled to compensation as victims of the nazi regime , while the war reparations which germany owes greece remain in abeyance and have not yet been paid .
i would like to explain that at national level this type of support is a matter for member states , within certain legal limits laid down in the treaty .
firstly , i would like to say that there is an enormous difference between , for example , producing cars or lorries and producing a film .
i would , however , like to ask the council 's representative whether he does not consider it important , with the help of this practice , to be able to give up to 50 percent in aid to the production of european film in those languages with few speakers .
as you know , in the past all the member states of the union were authorised to provide special support for their film industries , particularly bearing in mind the specific need for cultural diversity within the european union and because it was necessary to ensure that account was taken of this specific need , thus going beyond a purely economic view of the film industry .
at present , there is still a 50 % limit on state aid in relation to the overall cost of any given project , but this percentage could even be raised to 60 % in special cases envisaged in the programme .
question no 8 by ( h-0166 / 00 ) : subject : information for the public will the council draw up a list of parties which the electorate can safely vote for without running the risk of their country being ostracised ?
mr president , it is clear that the european union does not have the power to intervene in the constitutional arrangements of the member states , no more than it is for the union to draw up a so-called positive list of parties for whom electors may vote .
this does not mean that the idea behind this question does not make some sense politically speaking : in some countries , including my own , a nazi or fascist party does not have the right to register with the constitutional court .
this means that it cannot be accepted as a legitimate party in the democratic process .
what we have to recognise is that when we are considering a broader community , no situation affecting democratic rights in one country can be a matter of indifference to the other countries and their citizens .
but whether lists of parties are desirable or otherwise , i hope that this never becomes a matter for the european union .
because austria has a county mayor in klagenfurt who has expressed himself in a way for which you and i feel equal revulsion , you have punished a country with sanctions and you are punishing a people with sanctions , including those individuals who may have voted against the party in question , and this without specifying what their crime entails .
these 14 member states decided of their own free will to make plain to the austrian authorities their displeasure at the kind of government they had established , and above all at the fact that they had included in the government a party which advocates , or has advocated in the past - it is difficult to distinguish between the past and the present in the freedom party ' s statements - a certain ideology and a certain way of interpreting european values .
of course , all parties have every right to oppose economic and monetary union , the schengen agreement , or anything else ; they can even oppose the european union itself .
as you know , there are parties which are opposed to the european union , but that does not mean that they should be seen as undemocratic .
the fact is , and you know this as well as i do , mr bonde , that there are parties which promote ideologies which jeopardise the system itself and which affect the set of values which are the very essence of the european union , which are ultimately part of the justification for creating the european union in the first place .
this uneasiness is only being reflected in bilateral relations .
it is also possible to obtain information on the legislative transparency of the council by e-mail .
the public ' s right of access to council documents is covered by article 255 of the treaty , which stipulates that the council shall determine general principles and limits for exercising this right within two years of the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam .
for this reason , as i have already said , this article stipulates that the rules of procedure of the european parliament , the council and the commission should contain specific provisions regarding access to their documents .
furthermore , a council decision on improving the provision of information relating to the council 's legislative activities and the public register of council documents was approved .
in accordance with this decision , and let me quote once again , " the general secretariat of the council shall make accessible to the public a list of the items on the provisional agendas of meetings of the council and its preparatory bodies referring to cases where the council acts in its legislative capacity " .
the decision stipulates that the public register of council documents shall also include references to the document number and the subject matter of classified documents , with the exception of cases where disclosure of this information could undermine protection of the public interest , protection of the individual and of privacy , protection of commercial and industrial secrecy , protection of the community 's financial interests , and / or protection of confidentiality as requested by the natural or legal person who supplied any of the information contained in the document or as required by the legislation of the member state which supplied any of that information .
from the outset , the portuguese presidency has declared its commitment to initiate discussions on public access to documents and its intention to entrust this dossier to the " friends of the presidency " group as soon as the commission presented the proposal for a regulation on public access to european parliament , council and commission documents .
this proposal was presented to the commission , in the college of commissioners , on 26 january , and , as i have said , it attempts to fulfil the objectives of increasing transparency , and in particular proposes significant amendments to the 1999 code of conduct .
the presidency immediately initiated discussion of the proposal , which was presented at the coreper meeting on 2 february and which was examined at two subsequent meetings .
do you accept that for legislation in a democratic environment , in which we are in the european union , the public , whom the laws affect , should be able to see and hear what their elected representatives are doing to pass the laws ?
mr newton dunn , this is a complex issue and it relates , of course , to the type of legislative practice involved and in particular to the degree of similarity between the legislative practices adopted in the european union and in its member states .
in the member states , there are legislative powers associated with parliaments in which debates are held openly and in public , and there are legislative powers which , either because they are delegated by parliament or as a matter of law , are a matter for the government .
discussion of legislative proposals within the government is not in the public domain , but the result of these legislative proposals is in the public domain , whether they come before parliament or not .
we would then - in quantitative terms - be more successful in giving answers to this house .
i have been here since 9 o ' clock in the morning and i do not think that the council can be accused of not doing a serious job in answering honourable members ' questions .
with regard to your question about this disagreement between parliament and the commission , it is obvious that the council would be the last institution to get involved in this disagreement and will leave those two institutions to sort out this potential argument between them .
governments ' legislative role is normally exercised in restricted , closed meetings in every country in the world .
mr seixas da costa had informed us that he had to leave at 7.00 p.m .
questions nos 10 to 38 will be replied to in writing .
mr president , my point of order relates to rules 148 and 135 regarding the distribution of the minutes and particularly regarding roll-call votes .
all members have , this morning , received a booklet containing 113 pages of roll-call votes .
but in the interests of economy and the environment , i would suggest that parliament look again , or ask parliament 's services to look again , at the interpretation of the word ' distribution ' .
now that these negotiations have been concluded and the council has expressed its view on their content , it falls to parliament , in response to the council ' s formal consultation , to give its opinion on the results of the negotiations .
turning to the substance of my report , the first thing i want to highlight is that , although we are dealing with an implementation agreement exclusively concerned with trade , there is a political dimension to bear in mind in expressing our opinion .
this is the case because the text my report covers is set in the context of the economic partnership , political coordination and cooperation agreement , and that agreement is a reflection of the will to promote a genuinely democratic political system , respect for human , social and environmental rights and a fairer social balance , thanks to the greater economic development the liberalisation of trade will generate .
in addition , by institutionalising cooperation between the european union and mexico , especially on human rights issues , social affairs and the fight against poverty , an instrument is being created which could be extremely useful for reducing the social inequalities which persist in mexico and for improving the living conditions of the less advantaged strata of the population .
of course , during the transition period , and until all products have been fully liberalised , the agreement will be more beneficial to mexico than the european union , but this asymmetry also takes account of the levels of development and competitiveness of the european economy as compared with mexico ' s .
for all these reasons , ladies and gentlemen , and by a very large majority , the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy recommends a vote in favour of the council decision on the result of negotiations whose benefits we must monitor to make sure they genuinely contribute to promoting a more democratic political system and respect for human rights and social justice .
mr president , i should like to talk about a particular issue in order to highlight the risk of its posing a serious problem to the european economy and society .
in other words , with a population of 90 million mexicans , we have agreed to export one pair of shoes per 100 inhabitants in mexico .
the commission ought to realise that if the derogation with mexico is taken as a precedent , 50 % of europe ' s shoe industry will be in danger of being wiped out .
we might have been able to dispense with the lannoye report on chocolate yesterday had mexico not given us cocoa in the past .
i should like to go briefly into , or at least touch on , two problems .
a few weeks ago i visited mexico for a number of reasons , one of which was to find out what mexicans think of the new framework for relations between their country and the european union , announced with great fanfare in most of the media .
i therefore support the rapporteur ' s conclusions although i am concerned about the impact of tariff liberalisation for cut flowers as this could have negative repercussions on certain european regions specialising in this type of agriculture , such as the outermost regions .
we believe , along with the german and belgian governments , that we should enforce observance of article 1 of the treaty , which contains the fundamental principle , and adopt instruments and set in place practical controls to ensure its implementation .
there are many other aspects of this agreement which , we feel , require correction : i will give just one example - it reveals a european union economic policy which does not take into consideration the social and economic situation in mexico or its human development .
the ferrer report , following what is clearly now the fashion in this parliament , sets itself the objective of helping to create a new framework that will enable european enterprises to compete on equal terms with the united states and canada .
that is a totally unrealistic objective for the near future and it is quite obvious for whose benefit the measures advocated in the text are designed .
mr president , the conclusion of trade negotiations between the european union and mexico , considered from a positive perspective , could mean a new and durable framework for the institutionalisation of political dialogue and cooperation , provided that this trade pact works to the benefit of both sides .
as a result of that 500 year-old meeting of civilisations , mexico is a country culturally and politically bound to europe .
but mexico has also made great progress on human rights .
mr president , the group of the greens / european free alliance does not have a common position on this issue .
the latter part of the group , representing , as you know , groups which regard themselves as defenders of nations and regions internal to the european member states , take a different view and , of course , members of the group are free to adopt different positions .
obviously we share a basic concern about everything relating to human rights and sustainable development , especially in a context which leaves no room for social exclusion .
however , many of us feel we cannot realistically and sincerely oppose an agreement like the one before us today , primarily because we believe it will create objective conditions for further development and greater democracy and because , in addition , this agreement includes a suspension clause for non-respect of human rights .
our decision has nothing to do with her work , it relates to the situation in mexico .
mr zedillo promised to let me have full details to prove to me that our concern was groundless .
meanwhile , information is reaching us from many sources indicating that serious human rights violations are continuing in many places , increasing our concern .
we quite understand that the economic content of the agreement is intended to bring about improvements , but we also recognise that we have not been able to achieve our aim of shifting the tremendous weight of north american influence that bears down on mexico and other latin american countries like a jackboot .
first , from the strategic and political angles , it is important for the european union to build up its relationship with a country that is so important in that part of the world and which , above all , is making progress in terms of respect for the values of human rights .
nor should we forget the opportunities represented by this market of 100 million people .
but obviously this political symbolism can in no way allay our concern about environmental issues , social issues and above all human rights issues , and many speakers have already referred to them here today .
the european parliament ' s delegation for relations with the countries of central america and mexico will be visiting that country .
i support the agreement in its entirety , for it certainly represents a step forward .
these results of the trade negotiations are based on the eu-mexico agreement to which this parliament gave the green light on 6 may last year .
it covers all our relations with mexico , notably cooperation and political dialogue .
it is very important because it will pave the way for organising a meeting of the ec-mexico joint council on the margins of the lisbon council next week .
thank you very much , mr liikanen .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 12 noon .
this is , of course , timed to coincide with the summit in lisbon next week , and parliament has had to work extremely speedily , for which i thank so many colleagues who have helped with this and , of course , the secretariat .
one of these is in rutland , the smallest county in england , where a virtual rutnet was set up , bringing together people in rural , isolated communities for purposes of leisure , transport , employment and social life generally .
i think for all of us the future for our children and grandchildren is a future of great opportunity , though also of great uncertainty .
we have been working against the clock and we have been dealing with an excellent and supportive fellow member , who has been very open to accepting all the points our committee wanted to raise in this important debate .
the committee on employment and social affairs has welcomed the commission ' s very important initiative , e-europe , for the special european council to be held in lisbon on 23 and 24 march , with support and optimism .
so we want supplementary analyses taken into account , we want firmer commitments , we want a specific point about strengthening employment and social cohesion in the information society - because there is nothing about that in the commission ' s communication - and we want a strategy with guidelines , recommendations and indicators .
and we want the european social model to be defended .
i therefore expressly welcome the statement in the e-europe initiative that its prime objective is to accelerate the positive transformation to the information society in the european union and gear the transformation towards social and regional integration .
the european commission sets out ten measures in its communication on the e-europe initiative , which should level the playing field in the run up to the information society in europe .
however , caution is required in the legislative area in that we must not over-regulate ; in other words , the first question with future legislative proposals should always be , do we actually need this ?
i have already referred to the fact that the changes in information technology and the new media affect all areas of life .
it is a disgrace that large countries in the past have not foreseen the need to train , and countries like germany and the united kingdom should not be having to bring in workers from elsewhere .
business-to-business communications are doing well but we must enhance communications between business and consumers in the european union , where we lag behind the united states .
mr president , commissioner , the present initiative is important for the purpose of making decision makers in general more aware of developments , but also because levels of development differ very greatly from one european country to another .
people may hold different views as to the value of this type of investigation , but i think it is important to emphasise that the us model is not the only one which leads to success in the it society , something which far too many people have said in this house .
scandinavia is acquitting itself well with its social infrastructure and also , perhaps , with its pensions systems .
we should also remember that the eu countries are very different from one another and that developments are very rapid .
i am glad that this point is made in the report .
the commission ' s proposal aims to create equality through market liberalisation .
mr president , in the original paper in english , the commission uses the words ' information society ' and not ' knowledge society ' .
the information society is the chaos society .
indeed no one will deny that means of communication , and in particular the internet , are most important to the future development of our societies , or that the eu member states are currently trailing behind the united states in this respect , or that we need to legislate to control the potentially anarchic development of these means in order to limit the excesses to which they can give rise and ensure that they are as successful as possible for our people .
yet i fear that the catalogue of good intentions before us today may , in fact , make it more difficult to achieve the objective we are seeking .
rather than moving ahead one step at a time and setting the member states a concrete and quantifiable short or medium-term objective , parliament is sending out a confused and confusing signal , largely , it is true , because of the rather bizarre committee work .
it is rather surprising , mrs ferrer , to read in paragraph 55 of your report that this parliament expressly supports ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , the world of it is awash with opportunities , if we believed the commission ' s communication and parliament ' s resolution .
mr president , commissioner , it is a very positive sign that lisbon will see focused discussion on the development of the information society in europe .
the european response to new challenges and exploiting opportunities has , however , been a long time coming .
we members of the european parliament cannot stand by either , while europe continually lags behind its global competitors in the world of the internet .
speedy developments in the information society will drastically change our environment and our working and living conditions .
the legislator does not always even have to interfere in developments : in certain matters industry and the players themselves may quickly resolve problems through cooperation .
consequently , there will have to be more focus on the training of teaching staff in european educational and training programmes .
mr president , with regard to the commission ' s communication on the information society , i feel that it is particularly important to underscore the emphasis placed on the need to provide all european citizens with access to new technologies .
mr president , with the e-europe initiative , the commission is reminding us that europe is lagging behind in the development of the information society .
yes , it is backward in terms of the development of e-commerce made possible by the internet .
this is important in our own part of the world but is also , of course , especially important in poor countries .
mr president , commissioner , metaphorically-speaking , what we have in the new i + c technologies is new fuel for our economic locomotive to re-heat our eco-system .
first : article 6 of the treaty of amsterdam clearly calls for the principle of sustainability to be integrated into all policies .
to be honest , commissioner , on reading the communication , i find too little account has been taken of sustainability , the question of ecological products , incentives for an ecological lifestyle or the question of the impact which i + c technologies have on environmental protection .
it offers more power , more choice , lower prices to citizens across europe and indeed across the world , and in my view the best thing that governments can do in cyberspace is to stay out of it as much as they possibly can and let consumers , businesses and citizens get on with their businesses and their lives .
we need a basic legislative framework for e-commerce .
i hope it will be a light-touch framework , but we need to drive it through quickly because the e-clock is ticking and there are many organisations around the world fighting for this business .
we should adopt new rules on jurisdiction which trust consumers to make an informed choice about which jurisdiction they want to opt for .
we must take the utmost care to ensure that all sectors of society benefit from the information society and that we do not create a society in which social inclusion or exclusion depend on access to the new technologies and the use of their potential .
the first relates to the users and the risk of a gap emerging between the various victims of social exclusion .
my third and last point relates to the question of public service and improving the democratic systems to develop procedures ... ( the president cut the speaker off ) mr president , commissioner , e-europe is a really important programme for everyone en route from the industrial society to the information society .
the focal point of the report and the prime objective of the commission ' s proposal make it clear that we need to achieve equal opportunities for , and equal participation of , all citizens in the information society .
this goal , in my view , does not justify the concerns raised here about a possible division in society between the haves and have-nots as far as access to information is concerned .
mr president , commissioner , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the successful work that has been done in so short a period of time .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , i think it is very important for the european parliament to take part in the debate on the european union ' s attitude to the opportunities opened up by the information society , an item on the agenda for the lisbon summit .
the european parliament ' s committee on employment and social affairs is calling for the information society to become the common property of all citizens , including the socially weak , the disabled and older people .
once they are able to share in innovation , once they can be won over by the information society , then it must be made clear that this is a success or an advantage not just for private- and public-sector undertakings , but for consumers and employees alike .
we must increase competitiveness and the development of ideas in our part of the world , that is to say in europe .
i hope that these documents will answer many of your concerns in relation to the realisation of the goals of e-europe , but it may be that some of the issues will not be addressed , because we must try to remain focused in this initiative .
it is important that we in the european institutions , along with member states , develop effective means of exploiting the potential of regional technologies , to increase both the efficiency and transparency of our interactions with citizens .
the commission is asked to include an eleventh action line on employment and social cohesion .
the " e-europe " communication focuses on the actions necessary to accelerate the transition to the information society .
the efforts which you have made confirm that you share with us a sense of the importance and urgency of this issue for europe .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place at 12 noon .
mr president , before we vote on the jackson resolution on the structural fund programmes , may i draw parliament ' s attention to the french council of state decree dated 27 september 1999 which cancels the notification of 500 sites that could be designated as special conservation sites and therefore pose a problem .
the commission has not expressed its opinion on that .
to ensure that member states are not unjustly penalised , i move that the vote on this report be deferred until the commission has delivered its reasoned opinion on action to be taken following the council of state decree .
mrs isler beguin was not in committee on the days we discussed these subjects .
if the house could agree we could overcome all the difficulties that we have with the language versions by putting in as a separate paragraph itself - either as a sub-paragraph of 45 or as a new 45 ( a ) - which says " and urges them not to imprison young people who commit offences , except as a last resort " .
it is , then , not only a question of the right to form trade unions but also of rights vis-a-vis these trade unions . ( parliament adopted the resolution ) mr president , i should like to make a point of order .
so i agree with you one hundred percent .
i agree with mr pirker , and it is probably the only thing i will agree with him on if we do vote on the ludford report .
we have already overrun by 45 minutes .
mr president , in order to be completely fair , you should have called for one intervention for the decision to suspend the sitting or continue and adhere to the scheduled voting time and one intervention against .
mr president , i am sorry but i asked for the floor at the start .
the rapporteur has stated that she agrees with your suggestion , i.e .
allow me to recapitulate : the president said that we are to vote at 5.30 this evening on whether or not to postpone the vote until the next plenary session .
sarah ludford has stated that she agrees with that .
this approach must also take account of the need to put more effort into the total eradication of diseases like leucosis , tuberculosis and brucellosis , and into adequate health procedures .
ferrer report ( a5-0066 / 2000 ) - ( da ) we cannot vote in favour of the report since there are gross abuses of human rights in mexico .
that has most recently been demonstrated in an amnesty report from december 1999 which draws attention to , among other things , the serious problems in the chiapas region .
finally , this agreement ignores most of the proposals put forward by social , trade union , human rights and environmental organisations in mexico and the european union which , for their part , aim to ensure that social , cultural and political cooperation take precedence over mercenary aspects .
we abstained on the gue resolution because , although we agree with a number of its criticisms of the commission , in the recitals the commission is described as an " indispensable interinstitutional instrument " , which is not how we see it .
duff / voggenhuber report ( a5-0064 / 2000 ) mr president , we heard many speakers from the federalist majority of this parliament say here yesterday that the charter of fundamental human rights under preparation would give a big boost to citizens ' rights .
of course , some people will say this was merely a new formulation of existing rights , but it is clear that this operation will go much further , with the european parliament already calling for an innovative charter .
mr president , i voted for the report despite many misgivings because it included mrs morgan ' s excellent proposed amendment on minority languages and cultures .
but i think that we have taken an important step here towards greater protection of minorities traditionally present in the european union .
mr president , my party , the socialist party in the netherlands , is in favour of democratic cooperation from the bottom up among the european peoples , but not of a large european superstate modelled on the united states of america .
of all the groups represented here , it is their view that takes least account of equivalence , democracy and human rights .
mr president , this week parliament has dealt with the european union charter of fundamental rights and we have specified - adequately i believe - the civil rights of individuals .
for me , however , as a representative of the basque country , collective rights are still lacking - and i hope they will soon be included - for example , the right of self-determination for european peoples and nations with a collective consciousness as such , so that , if a majority of their citizens so decide , they can join the european union directly and not just through the existing member states .
we are in favour of the drawing up of a charter of fundamental rights in the form of a political document .
a charter could make a positive contribution to this .
drawing up a set of binding , fundamental rights would raise a series of very difficult questions of principle , in terms both of the content of these rights and of their relationship to other sets of fundamental rights , for example the european convention on human rights .
if we nonetheless choose to vote in favour of the whole report , that is because we believe that fundamental human rights are one of the foundations upon which the eu is built and because we want a charter concerning these to be drawn up in the form of a political document .
whether it is subsequently to be incorporated into the treaty in a form that is binding will depend upon an assessment of whether the content of the charter would provide citizens with better protection than that which they have at present . - ( sv ) the most important development for the eu ' s future right now is that the intergovernmental conference should reach agreement concerning the reforms which are required in order to facilitate the enlargement of the union in accordance with a fixed timetable .
we have voted in favour of the eu ' s charter of fundamental rights being introduced as a matter to be considered by the intergovernmental conference , thereby guaranteeing , among other things , citizens ' rights in relation to the eu ' s institutions .
moreover , we do not wish to see two sets of rights on the european continent - one for citizens of eu countries and another for citizens of non-eu countries .
it is therefore crucial for any eu charter not to affect existing international conventions and declarations of rights , but merely to require that eu countries sign these .
we do not , however , see it as a solution for the eu to accede to the convention on human rights as a juristic " person " , since we do not share the view that the eu is , or should be , identified as having the status of a separate politico-governmental body .
the european court of justice should not have jurisdiction over areas already covered by the court of human rights in strasbourg or by other international bodies .
on the contrary , we are persuaded that in future we shall see a europe without frontiers between unified nations , from one end of the continent to the other .
as the representative of the people of the european union , our parliament must take a very careful look at the contents of this document .
any amendment of the charter must come under the same procedure as its original drafting procedure , which means it would require the assent of the european parliament .
the indivisibility of these fundamental rights must be recognised by making the charter applicable to all the european union ' s institutions and bodies and all its policies , including those contained in the second and third pillars , in the context of the powers and functions conferred upon it by the treaty .
already , within the european union , member states have ratified and transposed into their legal systems the european convention on human rights , which , although the document is nearly 50 years old , has shown itself capable of evolving in line with changing conditions as well as developing new rights .
i believe that what is now proposed with this ' charter ' will eventually lead to conflict between the interpretation of rights under the different documents , which could create a legal vacuum and , ironically , reduce the rights available .
we need more time and debate on these potential conflicts . - ( sv ) at the council ' s meeting in cologne , it was decided that an eu charter of fundamental rights should be prepared .
the relationship between the european court of justice and the european court of human rights appears , for example , to be legally complicated and could undermine the european convention on human rights .
we are therefore abstaining from voting in the final vote . - ( da ) the danish liberal party ' s five members of the european parliament , bertel haarder , anne e .
we are not voting against a charter itself , but so far the process seems to suggest a wasted opportunity to protect the citizens of europe from the overburdening powers of the european institutions .
there is a gap to be filled in providing fundamental rights to citizens of the member states concerning european regulation and legislation .
conservative meps will continue to examine the progress of the proposed charter through our representative on that body , timothy kirkhope , mep , ( yorkshire ) , and in discussions with our colleagues in the european parliament , and we will be as positive as possible in this exercise .
a charter of this kind should be based on the most progressive acquis and combine social and democratic rights .
a charter of that kind would offer support to all those men and women who are fighting against a europe that lays off workers or expels immigrants who do not have the proper identity papers . - ( de ) i did not vote for the resolution , despite the fact that i am in favour of a charter of fundamental rights , because it contains demands which overshoot the mark and risk causing considerable confusion by formulating the same rights differently and , more importantly , jeopardising the universality of human rights .
i would much rather see the european union and , of course , all the member states , quickly accede to the 1950 human rights convention as opposed to the inevitable dispute regarding the new wording of the fundamental rights of union citizens .
in order to safeguard uniform case law and prevent differing interpretations , case law should continue to be the preserve of the european court of human rights in strasbourg which , thanks to the quality of its case law on the 1950 convention over the past 40 years , has provided a dynamic instrument which takes full account of the social , economic and ethical developments within our society .
a charter of this kind will have a very important symbolic value and will strengthen the confidence of our citizens in the eu and in european integration .
the charter of fundamental rights should be seen as complementing the european convention on human rights , which we believe should be incorporated into the treaty .
the charter should concentrate on the relationship between citizens and the european institutions .
the charter should be legally binding through its also being incorporated into the eu ' s treaty .
the charter must not only be a declaration , but also entail obligations of some kind on the part of the eu ' s institutions and member states .
in fact , the significance of this document is obvious if it is regarded as a potential preamble to a european constitution ; conversely , it would be redundant in those member states that already include these rights in their own constitution and legal traditions and confirm them by ratifying international texts such as the european convention and the universal declaration of human rights .
this kind of europe is based on a new totalitarianism in which man finds himself alone facing a community administration that is as remote as it is impersonal , in which the intermediate structures - and in particular the most vital one of all , the family - have been gradually destroyed .
however , we are at a very early stage in the process of determining the charter .
this decision will be made at a later stage as recognised by the report itself in paragraph 6 .
this is a complex process which needs clarity and precision at all stages to ensure that the end result is a positive and visible step forward for people in all eu countries .
in my view , a declaration would be more appropriate .
the european convention on human rights is an excellent tool for protecting human rights in europe .
at the same time , it is the european court of justice ' s practice to take account of the national fundamental rights applicable in the member states .
this practice could be affected if the eu were to obtain its own set of fundamental and human rights .
jackson resolution ( b5-0227 / 2000 ) my group voted in favour of the jackson resolution on structural funds in the environment because we believe in the principle of ensuring effective implementation of environmental law - in this case , the wild birds and habitats directive .
however , we are surprised that members of this house voted for the original proposal in paragraph 7 to cut off funds to some of our poorest regions in the eu .
members of the environment committee clearly cannot be aware of the undue delays that any non-approval of structural funds programmes would create , nor indeed of the new budgetary procedure that could involve not only delays but the loss of millions in funds in the case of the uk to merseyside , south yorkshire , the highlands and islands , northern ireland , cornwall and the isle of wight .
i therefore welcome the fact that this house voted by a majority against cutting off resources .
the structural funds regulation - decided unanimously last year by all the member states - clearly states that the ex-ante evaluation is a prerequisite to the programme and the planning documents which the member states submit to the commission for approval .
the structural funds regulation also states that this ex-ante evaluation should include an assessment of the environmental situation , especially in areas which might be influenced by structural fund intervention .
the commission is deluding itself if it thinks that it can use article 39 to recoup what it has failed to obtain during ex-ante evaluation .
yet the commission , ever faithful to its nature and its habits , cannot stop taking every opportunity to overwhelm the states and their citizens with new directives and pernickety little rules , which often bear little relation to real local conditions .
the only result of this kind of overload is to paralyse the economic players a little more each day and to hold back freedom of enterprise .
malmstrom report ( a5-0060 / 2000 ) mr president , i would like , as a matter of priority , to thank parliament for lending its support to aid for mongolia .
i hope this will lead to a much more proactive approach on the part of the commission , as i have not seen a sign of this yet .
with the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam , the european union has become more visible on the international stage thanks to the appointment of a cfsp high representative , in the person of javier solana .
the treaty of amsterdam has made respect for human rights one of the main objectives of the eu ' s common foreign and security policy .
furthermore , the democratic oversight of national intelligence services is , in any case , primarily a matter for national parliaments .
the united kingdom has one of the most effective systems of democratic oversight , both political and judicial , of its intelligence services in the world .
for example , we do not share the enthusiasm for an eu charter of fundamental rights .
while we value the role of the eu in supporting human rights , we believe that human rights regulation and legislation , as in so many areas dealing with the relationship between the citizen and the state , is a matter for national governments , and we do not welcome an extension of eu intervention in this area .
it is for these reasons that british conservatives have voted against the malmstrom resolution .
haarder report ( a5-0050 / 2000 ) mr president , i would have liked to have voted for the haarder report , in spite of certain passages in it , and certain statements , including some to the house , to the effect that there are no rights for the family and that to grant special rights to the family would be a discriminatory , not to say racist , measure .
if there are no specific family rights as such - as the committee on women ' s rights decided , very much against my wishes - then such rights do not exist for the other heterosexual or same-sex communities either and the section on " lifestyles and types of relationship " has no place in this report .
marriage and the family form the basis for human rights , as does the right to life .
secondly , i should also like to note that , broadly speaking , my group supports the haarder report and expressly highlights the fact that there was excellent cooperation with the rapporteur .
hence our support in principle .
we voted against it , however , because two points were accepted by the majority of the house ; i refer to points 53 and 54 , which tackle the issue of the family and the excessive support or special support for all alternative types of partnership .
mr president , i just wanted to add to what mr pirker has said by pointing out that i voted in favour of point 42 of the haarder report despite the fact that it contains an error because austria is named in connection with freedom of movement .
i am therefore able to tell the house that both felix habsburg-lothringen and karl ludwig habsburg-lothringen have valid passports without any form of restriction .
that same article defines the family in terms of the marriage between a man and a woman .
the international covenant on economic , social and cultural rights repeats the same idea by declaring , in article 10 , that " the widest possible protection and assistance should be accorded to the family , which is the natural and fundamental group unit of society " .
let me remind you that this report replaces the traditional memorandum on eu activities in this field which the council used to present to the european parliament every year to inform it of eu action on human rights in the world over the past year .
this report aims to explain the eu ' s motives and the institutional structures and instruments available to it for conducting an active policy of respect for human rights .
more specifically , the report points out that the treaty of amsterdam has introduced new human rights provisions in order to underpin eu action in this field , especially in the context of the cfsp .
thus the treaty has established respect for fundamental rights , as guaranteed by the council of europe ' s convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms , as a principle .
that means the european union is ' founding ' its action on the principles of democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms .
with enlargement , the european union has clearly announced to all candidate countries that respect for democracy , the law , human rights and minorities is a basic accession criterion .
our european parliament has a vital role to play in the formulation and practical application of eu human rights policy .
our powers have gradually increased so that this parliament has now become a forum for discussion of human rights , a recognised forum as our debate today proves .
on the situation of candidate countries , much progress remains to be made , especially in relation to respect for the rights of minorities .
i voted for these paragraphs because i agree with the objectives of the rapporteur .
secondly , i do not support the lowering of the age of consent below 18 years of age .
yet i would also like to draw my colleagues ' attention to two requests made in the report , which i find problematic .
paragraph 19 of the report , concerning the protection of national minorities , and paragraph 20 , calling for the ratification of the charter for regional and minority languages , pose real problems .
parliament firmly rejects abuses of fundamental freedoms throughout europe , as the haarder report emphasises .
the republic cannot recognise specific ' minorities ' or ' communities ' : in its view there are only autonomous and free citizens with equal rights .
in view of our convictions we must also express strong reservations about paragraph 20 of the report , which refers to the charter for regional and minority languages .
everyone is free to use one or several languages of his or her choice in addition to the language of the republic and everyone has the right to learn them at school .
the european union turns a blind eye to situations in which human rights are being savagely violated in order to protect its imperialistic interests .
the recent and continuing invasions in kosovo , using the rights of minorities as a pretext , and the unbelievable demands being made on yugoslavia are a typical example of how military intervention is being advanced as a general principle of international law at the expense of the principle of national sovereignty .
the effects of this policy are already visible in the rise of extremist , fascist powers and racist perceptions , and not just in austria .
an additional charter , european or not , will certainly not provide them . - ( nl ) we have consented to the haarder report but would like to make the following observations regarding paragraphs 19 and 20 of the draft report .
paragraph 19 urges belgium to sign the convention for national minorities .
so , whoever tries to change the situation in the brussels periphery using this convention will implicitly put the future of the belgian constitutional equilibrium at risk and illustrate once again that a european lack of insight into our federal system can lead one to think that we would be better off as the separate member states of flanders and wallonia , rather than as a federal member state of belgium .
moreover , we regret that in paragraph 5 of the ludford report , the same text was adopted for racism and xenophobia .
two of the provisions in that text call on a number of countries , including france , to ratify the european framework convention for the protection of national minorities and the european charter for regional and minority languages without delay .
i have voted against the haarder report because , in calling for the ratification of the european framework convention for the protection of national minorities and the european charter for regional and minority languages , it is seeking to promote a concept of european integration that is based on a vision to which i cannot subscribe .
according to that concept , the individual has particular rights based on his membership of a territorial , ethnic or religious entity , while the community constitutes the key means of mediating between the individual and the right he is claiming .
that europe affirms the primacy of a principle not found in the haarder report , the secular principle , which contains and synthesises all the other freedoms : right to respect for private life , freedom of conscience and religion , freedom of expression and association .
for the same reasons , i abstained on the report on the fight against racism and xenophobia in the european union . . ( sv ) it is incompatible with the subsidiarity principle and proximity principle that the 626 members of the european parliament should pronounce upon what vision of the family and what legislation affecting the family the 15 member states and the twelve candidate states ' national parliaments should arrive at .
in solemn speeches and addresses , such as that given this week in the european parliament by the prime minister of the country currently holding the presidency of the union , portugal , the wealth of europe ' s different cultures , traditions , languages and national identities has been emphasised time after time .
to then state that the family ' s - and , therefore indirectly , children ' s - legal position should be standardised throughout europe , as proposed in paragraphs 53 and 54 of the present resolution , constitutes a basic offence against the national right to legislate and against the eu ' s own subsidiarity principle , as formulated in the treaties of maastricht and amsterdam .
while the persistence of discrimination between men and women , with regard to pay for example , is unacceptable , to set men against women , as some feminist organisations do , would be sterile and put social cohesion at risk .
as we put it in brussels on 1 march , that kind of policy would reflect a profound contempt for women : women should gain access to political or administrative posts not through the mechanical workings of some form of quota but through the recognition of their merits and abilities .
women have a specific role to play in society : they have a vital family role to play in the procreation of the new generations that are essential to the survival of society , a role to play in educating the young ; they have an economic role , as mother of the family , but also a role within family enterprises ( family holdings , businesses , smes ) .
on the one hand , that implies giving the wives of self-employed workers who play a part in the family business a stable status and , on the other hand , recognising the economic and social role of the mother .
it calls for equal rights for same-sex couples and traditional couples and families , forgetting the vital role the family plays in social cohesion .
just imagine the psychological future of children with two fathers and no mother , or two mothers and no father !
western sahara the next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions : b5-0246 / 2000 by mrs gonzalez alvarez and others on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left ; b5-0253 / 2000 by mr sanchez garcia and others on behalf of the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party ; b5-0262 / 2000 by mr carnero gonzalez and others on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists ; b5-0272 / 2000 by mrs schroder and others on behalf of the group of the greens / european free alliance ; b5-0278 / 2000 by mr salafranca sanchez neyra and others on behalf of the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats on the western sahara .
we believe there should be more emphasis on asking morocco to concentrate its political will on resolving the conflict , because the sahrawis have demonstrated time and again that they want it finally resolved .
mr president , the european union - and parliament within it , of course - must strive to avoid a new conflict in an area which is already troubled enough .
the first is the united nations security council ' s urgent resolution of 29 february , which agreed to extend the minurso mandate to the end of may .
and here the high representative for the cfsp , mr solana , ought to play a more active role in achieving adequate guarantees for the sahrawi people through an active presence and direct participation in the stages of the peace process and the referendum .
the european union must fully assume its role of mediator in this process , which is important not just for the region itself , but also for the whole of europe , and especially for certain countries .
mr president , after the vote in east timor , the process of self-determination in western sahara is the last one outstanding in the world .
i would even say that the transition to full democracy apparently under way in the kingdom of morocco also depends on it .
from our point of view , the culmination of the process of self-determination in western sahara lies in the application of the peace plan from the united nations and the organisation for african unity .
in spite of the efforts of the united nations , in spite of minurso , in spite of the progress that has been made in compiling the electoral roll , the referendum keeps being postponed virtually sine die .
direct dialogue between the parties is essential .
the most important point in the resolution we are going to adopt here today is the european parliament ' s call to the council to take common action , as provided for in the treaty on european union , on western sahara .
mr president , i should like on behalf of my group to voice our serious concern at the current situation in the western sahara to the european parliament and , more importantly , the commission and the council .
the constant postponement of the referendum on the future of the western sahara is unacceptable .
at least 56 people have been arrested , including 27 women , for fighting for the right to self-determination .
we had a similarly dramatic situation a year ago in east timor .
mr president , to begin with , i want to agree with most of what has been said in this regard , especially by my colleague , mrs gonzalez alvarez .
i hope that we shall be able relatively soon to have a meeting in connection with what was stated here in the european parliament by german aid organisations the other day , namely that refugees in the camps are in danger of starving and that infant mortality and deaths in childbirth have already increased by an alarming amount in recent months .
i cannot think of anything worse than languishing for 25 years among the sand dunes and being taken in by referenda year upon year , only then to starve to death .
a referendum should have been held years ago , as it was in other countries such as east timor , latvia and other places where the right to self-determination has been exercised .
the position of the european parliament has always been to support , not the independence of the sahrawi , but the right of the sahrawi people to freely express their views .
mr president , the peace process in the western sahara initiated and led by the secretary-general of the united nations looked promising .
in its motion for a resolution , my group reaffirms the right of the sahrawi people to self-determination and calls on morocco to call an end to all forms of repression and to apply in full the houston agreements to which it has subscribed .
the united nations must do its utmost to ensure that the referendum is held before the end of 2000 .
i call on the council and the governments of the member states , in particular france and spain , to stop being so accommodating vis-a-vis the moroccan authorities and to involve themselves more actively in the success of the peace plan and the holding of the referendum , for that is the most appropriate democratic means of achieving a peaceful and lasting settlement of the conflict in western sahara .
as for humanitarian aid , the commission channelled more than eur 61 million through ngo partners to provide sahrawi refugees in the tindouf region with food , medical and sanitary aid between 1993 and 1999 , and even though the circumstances for delivering humanitarian aid in this case are quite difficult , this will not stop us from continuing our support .
thank you very much , commissioner nielson .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m .
mozambique the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : b5-0244 / 2000 by mr miranda and others on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left ; b5-0251 / 2000 by mr queiro and mr ribeiro i castro on behalf of the union for a europe of nations group ; b5-0254 / 2000 by mr van den bos on behalf of the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party ; b5-0263 / 2000 by mrs carrilho and others on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists ; b5-0276 / 2000 by mr rod and others on behalf of the group of the greens / european free alliance ; b5-0279 / 2000 by mrs maij-weggen and others on behalf of the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats on the floods in mozambique .
mr president , we are all aware of the tragic situation in mozambique , and it is a matter of the utmost urgency to provide the necessary aid so that the government can respond to the most urgent needs of its people and succeed in reconstructing the vast regions where destruction has been almost total .
it is equally important that all the countries cancel mozambique ' s debt in full so as to facilitate its recovery .
angola , for example , has powerful armed forces which could have given valuable assistance , or zimbabwe , just next door , or nigeria , which has an operational air force .
as a christian democrat , i am sensitive to the appeals of the catholic church in this jubilee year for positive handling of the external debt of the third world as a whole .
we know this is not the situation in mozambique , as poor as the country may be .
mr president , the media have portrayed a distorted image of the disaster which struck mozambique .
there is a need for much better cooperation between the aid organisations and the armed forces to this end .
the 25 million aid package is sufficient for now , but will need to be increased at a later date .
it is therefore up to us , parliament , the council and the commission , to closely monitor the victims ourselves .
as for the european union , it must take a leading role .
in addition , in cooperation with the local authorities and other countries and organisations , particularly the united nations , the european union can make a serious effort to organise and support the reconstruction of mozambique .
mr president , we all know that the consequences of the tragic flood disaster in mozambique would have been less serious if the more developed countries , and especially the countries of the european union , which has a special responsibility for the former portuguese colony , had reacted immediately by sending the necessary resources , especially helicopters , to help the population .
we appreciate the fact that he travelled to mozambique in person to assess the situation and to see what the eu could do in the way of aid .
moreover , i heard this morning that debts have most definitely been deferred but that it is to be examined how this will be dealt with in future .
mr van den bos has also pointed this out .
mr president , rarely has the european parliament devoted its attention to a natural disaster in circumstances so dramatic and so deserving of our support .
we have directed our attention to the following areas of concern : immediate relief , resettlement , rehabilitation , macro-economic stability and long-term development .
for the relief emergency aid and resettlement phase , the commission has approved two echo decisions for a total of eur 2.7 m for mozambique , and we are preparing a third decision for eur 5.5 m .
in addition , eur 1.4 m from the food security budget line have been made available locally to the delegation and the government of mozambique .
in addition to the action already funded in botswana , the commission is currently carrying out a humanitarian need assessment in zimbabwe , zambia and madagascar .
turning to the rehabilitation phase , during my visit i announced an initial amount of eur 21 m in additional funds from the development budget , of which 5 to 10 m will come from the ngo co-financing budget line and the balance from redistribution of earlier edf funds .
the commission is insisting on the need for reinforced coordination with the government around the shared comprehensive reconstruction framework .
the commission will provide its funding for the rehabilitation requirements in strict coordination with eu member states and the other donors .
as to macro-economic stability and long-term development : proposals intended to help mozambique maintain macro-economic stability are currently being appraised by the commission with the government and the world bank .
concerning coordination with other donors and aid agencies : the mozambique government , in conjunction with the un office for coordination of humanitarian assistance ( ocha ) , provides the principal platform for coordination of rescue and relief as expressed in the consolidated appeals they have made .
this local ownership of the coordination process should not be challenged by outside donors , at least not as long as it works reasonably well , and this - the un organisations in maputo informed us - is in fact the case .
the overall figure of funding for this disaster now stands at about eur 109 m globally , of which more than eur 91 m come from the commission and the eu member states .
the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m .
human rights the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : presidential elections in peru b5-0252 / 2000 by mr marset campos and mr jove peres on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left ; b5-0255 / 2000 by mr di pietro on behalf of the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party ; b5-0264 / 2000 by mr medina ortega and mr fava on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists ; b5-0270 / 2000 by mr lipietz and mr knorr borras on behalf of the group of the greens / european free alliance ; b5-0280 / 2000 by mr salafranca sanchez-neyra on behalf of the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats on the electoral process in peru .
war crimes in chechnya b5-0245 / 2000 by mr markov and others on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left ; b5-0256 / 2000 by mr haarder and mr vayrynen on behalf of the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party ; b5-0261 / 2000 by mr oostlander and others on behalf of the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats ; b5-0265 / 2000 by mr sakellariou and mrs krehl on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists ; b5-0271 / 2000 by mrs schroedter and others on behalf of the group of the greens / european free alliance on violations of human rights and humanitarian law in chechnya .
freedom of the press in serbia b5-0247 / 2000 by mrs morgantini and others on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left / nordic green left ; b5-0257 / 2000 by mr haarder on behalf of the group of the european liberal , democrat and reform party ; b5-0266 / 2000 by mr swoboda and mr sakellariou on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists ; b5-0273 / 2000 by mr lagendijk and others on behalf of the group of the greens / european free alliance ; b5-0281 / 2000 by mr oostlander and others on behalf of the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats on freedom of the press in the federal republic of yugoslavia .
situation in iraq b5-0268 / 2000 by mr nair and mr sakellariou on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists ; b5-0282 / 2000 by mr buttiglione on behalf of the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats on the situation in iraq .
mr president , peru has had quite a troubled constitutional life with frequent incursions by the military into civilian life .
the european parliament has already had occasion to condemn this type of action by president fujimori .
yes , there are still elections in peru , there are political parties , there are means of communication and there are certain guarantees .
remember that , as a member of the andean pact , peru is bound to the european union by a democracy clause and the european community , or more specifically the community institutions , has a certain responsibility by virtue of that democracy clause to call for the electoral process in peru to be adapted , as far as possible , to certain essential democratic requirements .
mr president , as a member of the group of the greens / european free alliance and also as a member of the european parliament from the basque country , a land which has supplied a fair number of emigrants to latin american countries , i want to express my solidarity with all those who fight for human rights to be upheld - not only in peru , but throughout the world .
and i want to denounce the situation that exists in peru , a situation which is due not just to the complacency and connivance of the united states , as has been mentioned here , but also to that of plenty of other countries , including european ones , and the hypocrisy which reigns over international politics .
in this respect , the reference just now to a permanent human rights observatory for latin america seems to me entirely appropriate .
mr president , on 9 april the republic of peru will be holding presidential elections and legislative elections to elect the 90 members of congress .
as has already been mentioned , the european union maintains relations with peru in the context of the cooperation agreement signed with the andean pact , in force since 1998 .
we hope all the political parties will be able to take part in these elections freely and on equal terms .
war crimes in chechnya : mr president , our primary duty in the struggle to protect the civilian population , refugees and prisoners of war in chechnya is to do everything to finally bring the war in chechnya to an end .
only a political solution to all the issues connected with the conflict and reconstruction of the region will guarantee a change in the awful situation faced by the people in the towns and villages which have been destroyed , in the refugee camps and in the prisoner of war camps .
there are , however , two sides to this political tale of war and suffering , and i think we must seek more strongly to understand the causes of conflict between russia and chechnya , so that we can help to stem the flow of human blood more quickly another time .
mr president , i must contradict mr markov quite categorically .
of course , we must call on the russian authorities here but we too must become more involved than previously , because this is not a simple internal matter of state ; it is a question of human rights violations on a massive scale in an area subject to the human rights convention of the council of europe , in an area subject to the system of rights and values of the osce .
today we discussed the right to self-determination in the western sahara ; i should like to point out that the chechen people also has a right to life and we must safeguard the chechen people ' s right to life , either jointly with russia or on our own .
it seems to be becoming a permanent phenomenon in the region .
for example , the idea to use the tacis programme as a sanction will only lead to ordinary people suffering and has not deterred the russian government in their policy .
secondly , the human rights situation is intolerable , and we therefore need a proper investigation into violations of human rights by all parties .
we should be reminded , however - so as not to be too sanctimonious in all of this - that when chechen refugees turned to us for help we did not receive them in our own countries as we did on such a large scale with kosovo .
except that the russian government does not appear to be totally convinced of the fact .
we reject and shall not accept any unilateral interpretation of the agreement by the russian government .
this is a despicable war , whose prime victims are the people of chechnya , but also the young russian soldiers .
what public opinion sees is a few declarations condemning certain aspects of the war in chechnya ; what we are actually seeing is political and financial support for the kremlin .
many of the parties represented here in parliament form part of governments that are pursuing this policy of conciliation and support .
the serbian authorities are suppressing newspapers , independent radio stations and any radio stations which acknowledge opposition groups or parties .
the situation in yugoslavia is deteriorating by the day .
the new regime can only win the new local elections , expected in may , if the opposition is , in effect , eliminated .
the latter is a vital lifeline for the opposition which will be mounting campaigns again this spring and which certainly deserves our support , also where the media is concerned .
but it can never replace support provided to the media in yugoslavia , in serbia , media which deserve this support .
we just heard that mr wiersma was denied a visa to visit the opposition in belgrade .
mr president , apparently , the milosevic regime is not tired of fighting battles , not by a long shot .
the target , regional radio and television stations , is an obvious one from a milosevic viewpoint .
situation in iraq : mr president , the majority of the security council - france , china , russia - is now in favour , subject to certain conditions , of lifting the embargo imposed on iraq nearly ten years ago .
the international atomic energy agency has concluded , after a number of investigations on the ground , that iraq has no capacity to produce nuclear weapons , as has been confirmed by the reports of three groups of experts on iraq , and as the un security council ' s resolution 1284 confirms today .
that is why our resolution calls for this embargo to be lifted .
washington has refused this proposal too , thus creating a situation which primarily hits the iraqi people and not their leaders .
for the first time in ten years , an american delegation of advisors and congressmen published a report yesterday , on 14 march , on their return from a visit to iraq .
our resolution therefore calls for an end to this situation .
at that time , we will endeavour to obtain the support of all those who want to bring this inhumane embargo to an end and to do so , needless to say , without giving saddam hussein ' s regime a blank cheque .
as things stand at the moment , the iraqi government is not prepared to accept this resolution , and there is a real danger that when the united nations commission responsible for monitoring the destruction of weapons of mass destruction applies for an entrance visa it will be refused .
i am sure that the iraqi government is prepared to accept resolution 1284 - a fact confirmed by contact with the iraqi leaders - but it needs clarification on certain points which are referred to in the resolution .
i feel that it would be more destabilising for the regime to return to a more comfortable situation in terms of trade , to a situation in which the people have at least some hope of happiness , rather than to continue with the embargoes which , at this stage , are not succeeding in overthrowing the regime , but are simply inflicting enormous suffering on the people and , in particular , on iraqi children .
i feel that our resolution should also serve to reassure the state of israel .
we must therefore make it clear to israel that a major concern of our policy is the defence of the state of israel and the right of the state of israel to exist .
we must draw up a balanced resolution which is acceptable to all the parties involved if we want to avoid the military clash which is lurking over the horizon : not a demagogic declaration , but a political proposal in which europe takes control in order to protect world peace , exercising its key role in this area with due responsibility .
nevertheless , i realise that it is also important for us to achieve as great a consensus as possible in order to give our governments a firm basis .
but the debate will continue , regardless of what is going to happen in the next part-session in april and which i hope will accord with the political wishes the two of you have expressed here .
we should not forget that in january this year parliament passed a resolution asking that the kuwaiti prisoners of war still imprisoned in iraq should be released or at least that details should be given to their families and that there should be compliance with the united nations resolutions .
mr president , the un sanctions have become a weapon of mass destruction , claiming at least 200 children 's lives every day .
dennis halliday , who resigned from his position as director of the un humanitarian mission in iraq in protest at the sanctions , confirms the unicef statistics - five to six thousand children die every month as a direct result of the sanctions .
mary robinson , the un high commissioner for human rights , has been speaking out against the sanctions imposed in violation of international law , which prohibits the starving of civilians as a method of warfare .
these most sensitive health indicators show that iraq is at the lowest possible level in the table after afghanistan , djibouti and somalia , as the least developed country in the region .
this is the country which , per capita , has the capacity to be the richest in the world .
the fault lies with the government of iraq .
the european union - and we have debated human rights , xenophobia and discrimination at length over the past few days - must fight against this extremism with all the means at its disposal wherever it occurs , at home , in the candidate countries or throughout the entire world .
we have to support all available initiatives .
in this sense , mr president , i consider it important for europe to raise its voice and call on both countries , both india and pakistan , to do whatever they can and to offer them both international aid if they consider that it is needed or makes sense in order to resolve this conflict .
but when i was in azad kashmir and i went to one of the refugee camps a few years ago i was very moved by the first-hand accounts i heard .
relations between india and pakistan are indeed deteriorating , with kashmir being a particular bone of contention .
tensions are also being aggravated by the fact that these two countries are nuclear powers .
indeed , in the herald tribune of tuesday , march 14 , 2000 , the headline reads : " nuclear war between india and pakistan is a real possibility " .
for this reason alone , supported also by the well-known un resolutions and the reference which has already been made to the constant violation of human rights , kashmir is no longer a problem that can be swept under the carpet and not debated in this parliament , as has happened for many years .
the us is in favour of arbitration , but it strikes me that , when president clinton visits these two countries next week , india should be asked to come to the negotiating table so that , together with pakistan , it can find a long-term settlement to this kashmir question .
as these two approaches are made , this two-pronged approach by the european union and the united states is , in my view , the best way to start the process for long-term peace and stability in this region .
i am then often ashamed at how little influence we can exert as a huge economic power in the political field .
india and pakistan were supposed to attempt this on their own , but this only led to a whole raft of small conflicts which - and the previous speakers were right to underline this - have taken on more threatening proportions since both countries have become nuclear powers .
i am convinced that international mediation is desirable and necessary .
the political and military situation needs to be further stabilised in order to create a climate for bilateral talks .
some member states announced , however , that they would be sending observers on a bilateral basis including , in some cases , representatives of their national parliaments .
the commission also reiterated this message through foreign minister ivanov during the ministerial troika on 2 march , where we submitted to him a number of concrete proposals including echo assessment missions to chechnya , ngo access and basic requests , visits of eu diplomats to the region before presidential elections to report on civil conditions , the humanitarian situation , alleged human rights abuses and investigations .
on the media situation in serbia , the mounting series of actions taken against studio b by the authorities last week are wholly unacceptable and we deplore them .
the increasing pressure put on the independent media shows just how important those media are .
the european commission has made great efforts to support the independent media in serbia .
the european commission 's europe-by-satellite service is continuing its support by making available time on its service for independent tv stations in serbia to broadcast information which will reach the rest of the region and encourage exchange of programmes .
ways should be pursued to engage the iraqi government in a dialogue on the implementation of un security council resolutions which might lead to a gradual easing of sanctions .
the commission is , however , concerned about the restrictions imposed by the iraqi government on ngo operations , which may jeopardise the implementation of echo financed humanitarian aid programmes in iraq .
finally , mr president , on the situation in jammu and kashmir , the commission welcomes the european parliament 's deep concern regarding the kashmir conflict reflected in the different draft resolutions .
india should be encouraged to look for and explore the full potential towards internal political solutions to meet the expectations of the jammu and kashmir populations in line with the possibility for enhanced autonomy as enshrined in its constitution .
thank you very much , commissioner nielson .
the debate is closed .
mr president , i support the motion for a joint resolution tabled by a large number of my fellow members and supported by the most representative groups of this parliament , for we must call urgently upon the governments of the member states to intensify the fight against organised crime and make it more effective where , in addition to cigarette smuggling , this involves drug and arms trafficking and , even more importantly , the trafficking of human beings .
our colleagues in the public police departments do not only deserve our full solidarity and respect ; above all , we owe it to them to acknowledge once and for all that , wherever we live in the european union , officials of the guardia di finanza in apulia , for example , and i say this as a german member of parliament , are protecting the territory and the citizens of my country .
i think that we in this european parliament owe it to the relatives of the victims to acknowledge that respect for the dead is not an italian but a european matter .
the second is a political challenge which , in my view , we are not taking seriously enough .
however , we hope that the council and the commission will be able to mobilise these governments through their endeavours and that an effective action of this kind will be instigated at the conference scheduled for 19 and 20 may , in which both institutions are to take part .
mr president , the tampere summit last year took note of the extremely difficult situation of some of the regions of europe , and set the date for the forthcoming conference of 19 and 20 may next which is on the very subject of the security and development of this area .
on the one hand , it is only natural - and i was the rapporteur for enlargement to the east and internal security - that we need to worry about higher security standards , not only in the candidate countries , as we do in the eu itself , but of course in all other european countries .
we are therefore against point 4 of the joint resolution which names montenegro .
of course , montenegro also has internal security problems , as we do in the eu for that matter .
mr president , i consider the consensus reached in this chamber on the need for a new initiative to fight organised crime very important , in particular because of the realisation which spread from the group on behalf of which i am speaking , that the dramatic events in brindisi are not just an issue which is confined to the region of puglia , but that they draw on values , principles and objectives which are an integral part of the new european policy and on the question of justice and security for the citizens of the union .
after all , security is one of europe ' s objectives in the treaty of amsterdam and was on the agenda of the european council held in tampere in the autumn of 1999 .
we share the preoccupation expressed in the resolution as to the risk of seeing the reconstruction and development efforts in the context of the stability pact being jeopardised by international criminal networks that engage mainly in trafficking in human beings , trafficking in drugs and arms as well as in smuggling of goods .
as you are aware , the european council has shown its strong determination to fight against organised crime and has demonstrated the need for a coherent and coordinated approach by adopting in june 1997 an action plan to combat organised crime .
although many actions envisaged aim to encourage cooperation between the fifteen member states , the plan does not neglect the need also to develop wider forms of international cooperation .
the tangible result has been the conclusion by the council in 1998 of the pre-accession pact on cooperation against crime with the candidate countries .
as regards the specific question raised by the resolution and related to the situation in the balkans , the commission agrees that there is a real danger of massive development of organised crime activities if no coherent and coordinated action is set up in this region associating the various donors as well as the international and regional actors .
the commission considers that the member states have a crucial role to play in providing their expertise and human resources in supporting specialised projects in the fight against various criminal activities in the balkan region , including the fight against corruption .
the commission remains convinced of the crucial importance of making all the necessary efforts to support effective measures for the fight organised crime and is determined to develop , within this new framework , regional projects covering the field of justice and home affairs .
in addition , the commission is already in a position to announce that , under its programming of the assistance envelope of regional programmes for 2000 , around eur 2 m have been earmarked for projects within the field of justice and home affairs .
furthermore , as regards trafficking in certain goods such as the smuggling of cigarettes , and insofar as this traffic also affects the community 's territory and its financial interests , olaf has set up multi-disciplinary and multinational task groups .
these groups work to combat organised crime whose transnational dimension has been demonstrated on several occasions .
in 1996 , for instance , cigarette smuggling , mainly in the transit regime , totalled ecu 800 m .
the overall financial impact of fraud detected in this area in 1997 was an estimated ecu 1.6 bn covering community own resources and national revenue .
all in all we take these threats to the community very seriously and will continue working hard to fight them .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m .
over the years , this convention , with its 148 signatories , has saved many plants and animals threatened with extinction .
once again , it seems unlikely that the correct decisions will be taken at the cites meeting in nairobi and once again , we will be stepping in to prevent the wrong decisions from being taken .
in this intervention , i would like to focus on three risks .
the first risk concerns the fact that a number of southern african countries have proposed moving the african elephant from appendix i to appendix ii , which means that the controlled hunt will be allowed .
together , these countries would like to harvest more than 50 tonnes of ivory .
as this species mainly lays its eggs in cuba , people think that there are plenty of them and would like to kill 500 of these tortoises per annum , only to serve them up at exclusive restaurants , with the shells being sold off to japan .
in a nutshell , these are three examples from a series of proposals in nairobi which cause us great concern .
mr president , as the previous speaker said , this resolution is addressed to the parties to the cites convention meeting in nairobi in april .
the first is providing information and raising awareness amongst the public , the buyers and sellers .
although we may not be aware of it , huge numbers of animals are also the victims of natural disasters and especially wars in africa .
between 10 and 20 april next , the fate of this elephant will once again feature on the agenda of the world community .
kenya , the hosting nation , and india have tabled the proposal to grant the african elephant full protection once again .
the commission continues its diplomatic efforts to ensure that a sufficient number of ratifications are made in order to allow the community to play a more proactive role in this important convention .
concerning the specific matters in parliament 's resolutions , we agree on the need to step up enforcement measures in the field of wildlife trade in india .
thank you very much , commissioner nielson .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m .
mr president , i support the proposal by my friend , the very honourable member , baroness ludford , with pleasure .
before the vote on amendment 53 mr president , on behalf of the gue / ngl group , i wish to withdraw amendments 53 and 55 relating to paragraph 17 of the report .
it does indeed seem that the wording of these two amendments could give rise to conflicting interpretations , especially in certain language versions .
amendments 53 and 55 called for the term " ethnic " to be deleted .
but i wanted to ask him whether he does not think the same problem could arise with the part of the first sentence of amendment 54 that has not been changed and which , in the english version i have before me , reads : " stresses that the eu must collect reliable ethnic data as a basis for review " .
we spent a very long time voting on this .
unfortunately , our group was unable , for a number of fundamental reasons , to vote in favour of the ludford report on countering racism and xenophobia in the european union .
most of our group therefore abstained or voted against .
firstly : the ludford report flouts and violates the underlying principle of subsidiarity by calling in points 4 , 6 , 27 second indent , 11 and 20 for measures such as the recruitment of third country nationals to public office or formal requirements to change curricula and teacher training programmes .
secondly : the report deals with matters which have absolutely nothing to do with the subject of the report by calling in points 19 , 22 and 30 for measures such as rights for third country nationals to vote in local and european elections .
its absurdity lies in the fact that not only fewer than one-third of the members voted , but a statement was made about a member state of the european union , namely austria , a statement to the effect that parliament subscribes to the sanctions of the fourteen member states .
my group has therefore been compelled either to abstain or to vote against the report . ( applause ) mr president , i voted against this report because i judge a good bottle of wine by its contents , not its label .
although we do not agree with many of the recitals in the report on countering racism and xenophobia , we voted for that report because it takes a stance against discrimination and in favour of the rights of minorities .
and i could give further examples of this kind of thing to justify our abstention .
we abstained on point 10 .
i do not think this kind of resolution does any credit to our parliament . - my group and i are pleased to have voted for and supported the ludford report which is concerning the important subject of the fight against racism and xenophobia .
we are , nonetheless , abstaining from voting in the final vote because we believe that labour market legislation is an area to which the subsidiarity principle ought to be applied , as mentioned in paragraph 17 . - ( fr ) the ludford report on countering racism and xenophobia , like the haarder report on human rights in the european union that is also before us , seem inspired by some malevolent spirit that is prompting them to go beyond the legitimate protection of the rights linked to human dignity and to methodically destroy , one by one , all the bastions of citizenship , regardless indeed of whether it is national or even european .
i think the approach taken in these reports is a kind of violation of our terms of reference .
the two reports also join forces in calling for the right of immigrants to vote and stand for election in local and european elections .
another revealing point common to both reports is that they call for the proposed new ' rights ' to be enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of eu citizens , now being drafted , on which i gave my views the day before yesterday during the debate on the duff voggenhuber report .
we think it is important to combat racism and xenophobia by guaranteeing citizens the rights to education , access to the labour market etc .
it is also positive that the report should recommend that citizens of third countries should have better opportunities for integration .
as the report points out , we really must express " horror at the entry into government in austria of jorg haider ' s freedom party " .
this open breach of the founding principle of our european union , namely unconditional respect for fundamental rights , must not create a precedent .
let me conclude by asking for consideration to be given , in the framework of the igc , to possibly amending the treaty of amsterdam , specifically its article 7 which concerns action against any member state guilty of a " serious and persistent breach " of fundamental freedoms and rights .
the report we are debating deals with a series of points we fully agree with , aiming principally at guaranteeing the fundamental rights of the citizens of third countries who choose one of the member states of the european union as a place of work and residence .
it is especially worth highlighting the need to give the citizens of third countries resident in the european union political rights , by granting them the right to vote in local and european elections .
in short , it is an abuse of the opportunities offered by our parliament to debate and determine issues like this which are vital and important and deserve better than this approach .
it is against that background that this year , as ever , we are once again debating human rights in the world and in the union , accompanied this time by a debate on countering racism in the european union and the candidate states .
these pseudo-defenders of the rights of man have quite simply forgotten that man is not a concept , a point in a political programme .
the human being has a dignity , a mission that are far superior , if not contrary , to what is being put before us today .
the ludford report is not an account of the good or bad situation as regards racism in the european union ; it is the political programme of an extreme left-wing libertarianism that , in the end , shows little concern for the natural rights of man .
faced with these tyrants , the european union is keeping vigil : since it is close to the people , and so concerned with their happiness , that it manages their daily lives , it will know how to promote new and hitherto unknown rights ; since its foundations and the way it works are so democratic , it will know how to create this new europe freed of all sin ; it will know how to be the undisputed guide that can lead all its followers towards ' a brighter future ' .
the european edifice will not be built simply by the addition of those who make it up ; it will be the result of a concordance of views about its destiny and the ways to achieve it , or it will not be built at all .
report ( a5-0055 / 2000 ) by mr belder mr president , the only reason we voted for this report is to reaffirm that we are opposed on principle to any form of racism , xenophobia and oppression of minorities , within or outside the european union .
however , that vote does not mean we agree with all the recitals and all the proposals in it .
at the same time , we do not think the states that already belong to the european union are in a position to teach lessons to countries that are only at the stage of applying for accession , given the extent to which the ignominy of racism and xenophobia is being propagated in most of the member states of the european union itself , by demagogues from the extreme right , even and including some within this parliament . - ( fr ) the european commission presented this communication on countering racism in the candidate countries in response to the request by the vienna european council of 11 and 12 december 1998 .
i welcome the communication , which reflects the european union ' s resolve to help the candidate countries to combat racism , xenophobia and antisemitism with determination , and to satisfy the copenhagen criteria relating to human rights , the sine qua non for accession to the european union .
the profound process of transformation that has been under way in central and eastern europe since 1989 has had its impact on the rise of racism , xenophobia and antisemitism .
this could be done through programmes such as phare ( and more specifically " phare-democracy " , now incorporated in the " european initiative for democracy and human rights " ) and the meda programme for turkey , which can provide back-up during these changes .
the european observatory of racism and xenophobia which will open its doors in vienna on 10 april this year must also make a relevant contribution to continuing the fight against racism , xenophobia and antisemitism in the candidate countries .
the report highlights one very acute problem in the candidate countries , the problem of respect for the rights of minorities .
pursuant to the treaty , the bank ' s initial capital is fixed at eur 5 billion while foreign exchange reserves are fixed at eur 50 billion .
the ecb ' s other source of income is the interest on its official reserves .
however , from that income the ecb has to deduct the interest it pays on its liabilities in euros vis-a-vis the national central banks .
however , in the event that interest rates vary , and to the extent that the source of income is highly sensitive to interest rate differentials , the share of income accruing from interest could fall very quickly and even produce a loss .
an internal ecb calculation indicates that the foreign exchange value at risk could exceed the ecb ' s current capital .
the treaty provides for a mechanism whereby the ecb can forearm itself against any erosion of its capital .
the european central bank can partially or totally retain the monetary income from the eurosystem .
in fact , the european central bank will probably close its 1999 financial year with a deficit of more than eur 200 million .
on 14 april 1999 , the european parliament endorsed an ecb recommendation on doubling its capital in the long term .
the recommendation under consideration today seeks to authorise the governing council to effect further calls of foreign reserves , raising the ceiling to eur 100 billion .
so it is simply a question of authorisation in principle to increase reserves as needed , without being pressurised by exceptional events .
in this context it must be noted that the total reserves of the eurosystem come to more than eur 350 billion .
in the event of another international financial crisis , which remains possible given the irrational exuberance of the markets , there could be a need for concerted intervention by the main central banks .
to enable the ecb to be a party to agreements such as those known as the plaza or louvre agreements , the committee on economic and monetary affairs felt it was clearly necessary to advise parliament to vote for the recommendation .
we want the ecb to be able to pursue its main objective of safeguarding price stability in total independence - including material independence .
we are confident that the governing council will make optimum use of the foreign exchange reserves in the eurosystem in the event of tension on the markets .
the european parliament also assumes that the ecb president will explain the decisions taken by his council when he appears before the committee on economic and monetary affairs and , indeed , during plenary debates .
the central bank has everything to gain from this improved transparency with regard to consolidating its credibility .
mr president , i will close my statement by emphasising , speaking for myself and addressing myself to the ecb , that the ecb is there to serve the women and men of europe , to serve the economy as a whole .
according to article 3 of the statute of the european system of central banks , owning and managing official foreign reserve assets is one of the tasks of the ecb .
the ecb is currently calling for a further increase of 50 billion euros .
we , the group of the european people ' s party ( christian democrats ) and european democrats and the entire committee on economic and monetary affairs , as the rapporteur has already said , welcome this proposal .
at first sight it may seem acceptable to raise the current ceiling from eur 50 billion - in fact it is 39.5 billion because certain countries have not joined the single currency - to eu 100 billion , when we remember that the national central banks will still have eur 300 billion of own official reserves available .
the european parliament ' s report seems even more alarmist when it refers in so many words to the potential instability of the euro which , according to the rapporteur , does not need to be demonstrated .
the commission has adopted its opinion on this recommendation on 8 march , which reads as follows : " noting the rights of initiative of both the commission and the ecb , the commission has agreed with the initiative taken by the european central bank .
the commission has therefore adopted a favourable opinion on the ecb ' s recommendation .
the debate is closed .
i hope that the french state , the city of strasbourg and the european parliament will be able to take steps to put such small matters right in so expensive a building .
mr president , i do not have any comment to make on the minutes , but i do want to say something about the european parliament ' s information services .
right then , a fellow mep has just given me the session news about the debate we had yesterday on the ludford report , and i am disappointed to note that it makes no mention of the statement i made on behalf of our group .
very well , mr manders , we take note of all of that . ( the minutes were approved ) vote whether national or european , any central bank exclusively serves the interests of big investors .
this report sets a precedent , as it is the first time that the council has consulted parliament on these measures .
the european parliament would like the commission to make these priorities , which are priority objectives for agriculture in 2000 , easier to visualise in these next information measures .
however , another negative aspect of the commission ' s proposal relates to limiting cofinancing to a rate of 75 % , when actions implemented directly by the commission are financed at a rate of 100 % .
but when we come to think about it the amount of money is quite small - eur 27 million over a period of six years .
that is why i welcome that fact that most of it will be spent at the rate of 50 % rather than 75 % .
one of the things that was not widely understood was the importance of this policy from a social point of view : the fact is , that in all the depressed regions of the union , the common agricultural policy has maintained the population and supported communities , in a social sense , that would not otherwise have survived .
these have to be explained , not only to farmers , but to consumers as well .
amendments nos 2 and 6 concern organisations falling within the scope of aid .
this being the case , the proposed addenda are unnecessary .
amendments nos 5 , 8 and 10 concern measures that are eligible for aid .
they are unnecessary , as they are already contained in the commission ' s proposal .
local bodies are better qualified to do that .
amendment no 10 concerns article 5 .
amendments nos 7 and 13 concern contributions .
amendments nos 9 and 12 concern the allocation and approval of appropriations .
for this reason , the commission thinks amendment no 9 is not necessary .
amendment no 11 concerns evaluation .
amendment no 4 concerns administration .
amendments nos 1 and 3 concern linguistic nuances .
these the commission does not consider significant , as recitals 4 and 7 in the commission ' s proposal are not as restrictive .
the debate is closed .
the european parliament has been analysing this proposal since october 1999 and approved this draft legislative resolution unanimously on 23 february 2000 .
first , amendment no 1 on the inclusion of a recital 2a .
secondly , parliament ' s amendment no 2 proposes that seed vetches should also be included in the aid system .
thirdly , amendment no 3 indicates that , in our opinion , the commission should , without further delay , make proposals for the 2000-2003 period .
before i finish , mr president , i would like to point out that in 1993 - which is some time ago now - the council indicated that it intended to gradually strengthen the current aid system for grain legumes .
therefore , mr president , what the committee on agriculture and rural development of the european parliament would really like to see is an improvement in the system .
that is why we are presenting this proposal , which is really a maintenance proposal , and what we are saying to the commission is that , without further delay , proposals must be drawn up at the latest for the 2000-2003 period to achieve an improvement in this system without decreasing aid .
mr president , commissioner , the report that is being proposed for approval today in plenary refers to a minimal reform of regulation 1577 / 96 on aid for the grain legume sector .
mr president , i am participating in this discussion in order to support the report by my colleague , maria izquierdo , whose proposals , like those of the commission , seem to me to be beneficial and of interest .
grain legumes are a traditional crop in certain areas of southern europe , including spain and , more specifically , castilla-la mancha , the region i come from , which contains one third of the total area dedicated to these crops in spain .
the fact is that the system of aid established in 1989 has been modified several times , but no report has been presented on the application of the present system .
we are in a situation in which the agenda 2000 reform has been adopted and international trade negotiations are drawing closer .
the debate is closed .
member states are not legally required to demonstrate additionality at the regional or programme level .
the ex-ante verification of additionality is at present being undertaken in application of article 11 of regulation 1260 / 99 .
i do not think that there is a more important issue in wales at the moment than the application of objective 1 funds and it is important to look at the background to the issues that we are currently considering .
the additionality issue is an important one , but i must say it is not the only one which gives much concern to many members of this european parliament .
mr president , i should just like to touch on a couple of points that mr evans raised .
it is right that we have a proper discussion on the whole question of the structural funds .
i am referring to the report by the court of auditors on the principle of additionality .
this is a report that was published in the official journal of the european communities on 9 march .
this report contains a very interesting section - section 62 - that discusses privatisation .
and the response given to us by the commission in section 62 is very short .
there is a further problem , which should also not be hidden from the commission or the members of this house : we are talking about the impending enlargement of the european union with thirteen new member states , most of which have a far lower average income than that of the poorest regions of the community and there are no plans to fulfil cohesion policies with regard to these candidate member states .
mr president , while i endorse everything that mr medina ortega has said , i would like to say that , although we are a tiny group with very little time to speak , i did refer to the report of the court of auditors that he mentioned , which is indeed from 9 march this year .
mr president , commissioner , as has been said here , eu funds cannot replace member states ' public expenditure and the structural aid that runs parallel with it .
the commission must oblige the member states to work in such a way that the principle of additionality is implemented both nationally and regionally .
president , it is a great pity indeed that commissioner barnier has been unable to be present here this morning , because this is a matter within his brief which is causing great concern not only in scotland and wales but in other parts of the union .
indeed parts of my own constituency , the west midlands , have been awarded £ 550 million under the objective ii strand .
the structural funds programme provides , in many cases , the single most important and positive opportunity for our own worst-hit and most deprived areas to get up off their knees and back on their feet .
it is a great shame , therefore , that just by having this debate today , we are signalling our awareness that money from the structural funds programme is not allocated in many member states as it should be .
it is all very well for my colleague jonathan evans to imply that his party is not guilty .
the scottish conservative party candidate in ayr , john scott , has humiliated labour into third place - 5 000 or more votes behind .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on 11 april .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 17 march 2000 .
statement by the president ladies and gentlemen , as you know , on tuesday a terrible accident took place in kitzsteinhorn , near salzburg .
madam president , the verbatim report of proceedings for 16 march did not record my speech in full .
thank you , mr galeote quecedo .
mr sturdy , the chairman of our delegation , was unable to attend at that precise time , madam president , but he has written to you this morning to confirm what i am about to say .
this is regrettable in the extreme , since this was an otherwise excellent visit , and because we wish to maintain the best relations with canada , after so many difficult years , principally due to conflicts over fishing .
of course , mr berthu .
madam president , 13 april will see the start of the trial , in iran , of thirteen iranian citizens who are of the jewish religion .
i must ask you to intervene once again , and i also call upon the commission to intervene , to ensure that human rights are fully observed in the course of this trial , so that thirteen people are not condemned to death for reasons unknown , given that this parliament has repeatedly declared its opposition to the death penalty .
madam president , i shall be very brief .
so we are asking that the vote be postponed to the april part-session and that the deadline for putting down motions under rule 37 of our rules be re-opened to allow the committee eventually to table a motion on this issue .
madam president , i should like to speak in support of this motion .
is there any objection to mr watson ' s request on behalf of his committee to postpone voting on the resolution on the echelon system until the april part-session ?
the first one as you mentioned , relates to the proposals on the amendment of the directive on general product safety .
the two key objectives of the general product safety directive are , firstly , to ensure a high and consistent level of protection for consumer health and safety throughout europe and , secondly , to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market .
the report on the main findings will be circulated in parallel to the draft revision of the directive .
however , it does not apply where a specific sector of legislation covers the same aspects under consideration .
we also want to improve the rapid alert system , a system which is operated by the commission to monitor the information on dangerous products and measures taken .
we now also foresee the possibility of opening the system to third countries , in particular candidate countries .
we believe that in line with the general policy of the commission , citizens have the right to know which real dangers they are exposed to and the measures taken .
the limitations to this is , of course , professional secrecy , as defined in article 287 of the treaty , but that of course is except when there are overriding public health considerations .
i believe that this draft directive can effectively contribute to our common goal of ensuring a high level of consumer health and safety and i look forward to more detailed discussions with members of parliament in future on this issue .
they should be able to be confident in all areas and that a whole raft of instruments seems to have been implemented to that end , particularly the white paper on consumption and food safety .
today , in order to give more meaning to all the current thinking on consumer safety and in order to reconcile europe with civil society , particularly that society which successfully made its views felt in seattle and elsewhere , expressing its anxieties about food quality and food safety , could the commission not take the initiative of organising a forum for a large-scale debate between , on the one hand , the responsible parties from the commission , the representatives of governments and members of parliament , of course , but also the representatives of civil society , non-governmental organisations , consumers ' organisations , and professionals involved in the sector , in such a way as to ensure that these debates filter down to the european citizen ?
for instance , my service is currently putting the final touches to the framework document on public health , and contained in that document is a reference to the establishment of a public health forum , where issues relating to public health , and by extension the food and consumer affairs you draw attention to , will be able to be discussed .
i have been concerned by the lack of the involvement of the civil society in the issues that you talk about , particularly in relation to trade .
so i can assure you , mrs auroi , that i am concerned about these issues .
i take that responsibility seriously and we will be moving along in this way .
i have said on a number of occasions , including in this parliament , that the primary consideration must be the protection of the public .
in circumstances where there might be a conflict between the protection of consumers , particularly their health , and monetary issues , public health must , of course , take precedence .
they cannot , but in any situation of conflict where you have to choose one or the other , public health must always prevail .
madam president , commissioner , i wish to congratulate the commission on this initiative , which i believe to be extremely important .
you will be aware that our plans , which are set out in the white paper on food safety , contain a provision relating to the introduction of legislation in respect of a general food law , and there are many other legal provisions contained in the white paper which are designed to protect food safety , and by inference consumers .
i can assure you , mr campos , that the interaction that takes place at commission level on these issues puts a high premium on food safety .
in those circumstances , the provisions contained in article 287 must take a back seat .
let me also say that i fully agree with you that consumer confidence is best enhanced by the provision of full information .
the commission ' s services have worked on a proposal to introduce these tests in bse monitoring throughout the community since september last year .
currently we have three different tests which have been found to give excellent results when used to test animals with clinical signs of disease after their death .
the tests offer new opportunities to test a large number of animals on a routine basis .
the commission now proposes to replace that programme with a new programme where each member state tests a representative sample of dead-on-farm and casualty-slaughtered cattle in its territory .
i am also happy to be able to tell parliament that these particular tests will produce a result within 24 hours .
the proposed decision does not in itself have implications on the community budget but that is an issue that will be discussed in the special veterinary committee next week .
so the best possible date that i can predict for all this to happen and the best estimate that i can give for a commencement date having regard to all these factors is january 2001 .
i am convinced that , with regard to the consumer , we would be taken more seriously by producers if we were also to do away with the slaughter of animals at risk and if we were to have the same legislation throughout the entire community .
we know that there is a proposal there already and that will now be fast-tracked .
so all these factors must be looked at together .
it is not just one proposal that we are putting forward to you this afternoon as being the only answer to the protection of consumers in respect of the consumption of beef .
many of you have spoken about the need to put before anything else the protection of consumers , food safety and public health , and in those circumstances the scheme that we have devised for these tests is predicated on the basis that to acquire the most valuable and accurate information it is necessary to carry out the tests throughout the european union .
i hope that we will get a good response and i believe that from the contacts that we have had with some of the member states , there is a real apprehension in relation to these issues , not least because of the finding of the one single case in denmark very recently .
my question to mr byrne relates to the recent report of the food and veterinary office in dublin on the incidence of bse in france .
a large number of french departments - i think about 23 departments - had not apparently been monitoring for bse in the cattle populations within their departments , although they were departments in which there were a large number of dairy cattle .
the conditions and the controls in the abattoirs were such that one drew the conclusion from the report that it is perfectly possible today , 29 march 2000 , that animals with bse are still entering the food chain in france .
i have to say , in relation to reports from the food and veterinary office , that i have had discussions with them about the reports and we are currently reviewing how the reports are done , how they are written and what information they contain .
we have made a number of proposals and i am satisfied that when these proposals are put into place we will have met the member states ' concerns in relation to this and also , of course , taken account of consumer concerns .
aeroplane " hushkits the next item is the joint debate on two oral questions to the commission by the following members : mr hatzidakis , on behalf of the committee on regional policy , transport and tourism , on hushkitted aircraft ( b5-0018 / 2000 ) ; mrs jackson , on behalf of the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy , on the hushkit issue ( b5-0020 / 2000 ) .
mr president , i look forward with great interest to the commissioner ' s reply to this debate .
the first question one wants to ask is : is the financial times accurate this morning in forecasting that the commissioner is about to answer our questions by saying that only part of the noise regulation will come into force , the part relating to the european union , on 4 may .
we believe that what the commissioner is going to say is that the part relating to third countries , which should come into force from 2002 , will not come into force and will in fact be suspended .
the environment committee is the committee responsible within the european parliament for the original regulation on aircraft noise and we have watched with some dismay the reluctance of the united states to accept that the european union is within its rights to insist on bringing the regulation into force by the due date .
i think , however , that the commissioner may be about to announce to us that light is dawning and that we can see a way forward that will enable both sides to be satisfied and to allow sensible negotiations to continue for a global solution .
the first compromise put forward a little time ago seemed to many in the parliament to be much too shaky .
what is more , the international agreement of 1977 was never intended to artificially prolong the life span of aircraft due to be phased out , or to transfer aircraft from chapter 2 to chapter 3 .
however , it would be better still if the united states and the european union could conclude firm and reliable agreements on noise standards for aircraft .
the resolution that has now been produced by the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy aims to clarify the position of the european parliament .
despite our positive attitude , the americans for their part have shown supreme arrogance especially towards the european parliament , calling as i said earlier for the regulation to be withdrawn at first and then , as a slight concession , speaking about indefinite suspension .
a time came when it seemed that some progress had been made , though far from anything that could be considered satisfactory , but in the end even that slight progress has vanished in the last few days , since the us has petitioned the icao under article 84 of the chicago convention against the european union concerning the regulation whose purpose , as i said , is to protect the environment .
if good faith prevails , that agreement can become a reality .
and , of course , we believe the us ought to withdraw their petition to the icao under article 84 of the chicago convention , because that kind of action blows the spirit of cooperation sky-high .
mr president , i want to conclude with two respective observations .
the objective of this regulation is very clear : to achieve compliance with what has been agreed within the icao , that is to say , that the aircraft landing at our airports genuinely conform to the noise standards of the icao .
it is therefore a question of achieving new noise levels as international standards within the icao .
secondly , the americans must suspend their complaint to the icao in accordance with article 84 and we - this is something we could negotiate - could suspend the part of the regulation which refers to third country airlines ; but certainly not in reference to european airlines , since that regulation enters into force on 4 may .
only if there is in agreement on the other aspects would i come to parliament to ask for your support for a postponement with regard to third country airlines , for a suspension of the provision of the regulation in this specific respect .
the council also heard a commission communication on this subject yesterday , and i believe that it is becoming crucial to ensure that the hushkits issue is incorporated into a broader strategy for building a new europe in this area .
if you do not mind , mr president , i would also like to give a very brief account of the conclusions reached by the council yesterday on this matter , including the issue of hushkits .
it was the council ' s opinion that the measures to be adopted should , at the same time , ensure that a high level of safety is maintained , that there is fair competition , that the transport system works efficiently , and that there is equality of access to transport systems , taking account of the diversity of situations in the union ' s various member states and regions , and above all , the requirements of economic and social cohesion .
and we are being firm .
the presidency is convinced that we will achieve results and , once again , i would like to state before parliament that we have complete confidence in the work that the commissioner is carrying out .
in other words , we were not obstructive but we were firmly united in our willingness to introduce a regulation ; under the terms of which , i might add , the united states would , in any case , have two more years in which to complete the phasing-out process .
i also call upon the united states again to take our european legislation seriously .
we must support our commissioner and honour the legislation that we ourselves have adopted .
if it goes through in september of next year , then we still have enough time to suspend the regulation .
their future commitment depends on whether or not we are willing to defer .
ultimately , the us could even have europe thrown out of this organisation .
the political conclusion reached by my group is that europe must frame its own policy when it comes to the noise and environmental pollution caused by aircraft , both new and old models .
mr president , madam vice-president , mr president-in-office of the council , i am happy that we are here together today , after all the discussions over recent months , and can confirm that all three institutions - the two legislative institutions and the commission as the proposing authority - take the view that the regulation has to enter into force in may of this year .
once agreement has been reached on global standards in the icao working parties , we can start to adopt these global standards in our regulation insofar as it relates to third country aeroplanes for the year 2002 .
if , during the course of the legislative procedure , which takes six months or a year , we receive an indication in september that these standards have also been adopted by the general assembly of the icao as they stand , we can conclude the legislative procedure well before may 2002 .
the delegation for relations with the us is planning , as you probably know , a transatlantic legislators ' dialogue using video-conferencing techniques so that we can discuss and understand - and clearly the americans need to understand - what the powers of this parliament are , the positive powers and also the negative powers and also the importance of timing in our joint negotiations .
this is a critical case because it is about how we face hard decisions about how to begin to make a deeply unsustainable industry a little less damaging .
it is about how we put into practice the treaty of amsterdam on integrating sustainability concerns into all policy areas , even the very difficult ones .
i wonder if we can use this conflict and these negotiations with the us to enter into a broader discussion about a proactive global environmental policy on air transport more generally .
we need to be looking towards a new policy architecture to deal with all these questions .
it was voted through the last parliament without any debate .
it offends against the fundamental requirement for reasons under article 253 of the treaty in that there is no explanation at all in the regulation for the use of the bypass ratio of an aircraft engine as a criteria when internationally approved noise and emissions standards certification for aircraft engines already exist .
this legislation rolls out the proposal made by airbus at an airbus-hosted meeting in toulouse on 29 and 30 september and 1 october 1997 , effectively commercially sponsored legislation .
yes , mr president , noise pollution affects 20 % of our population , and 0.01 % comes from aircraft .
i fully support the objective of the regulation and we must agree on a timetable to implement noise standards , but it must be one based on objective performance criteria and not design criteria .
the integrity of this house demands detailed answers to questions which raise major doubts about aspects of a regulation upon which the motion before us is based and on which we will be asked to vote tomorrow .
secondly , mrs de palacio , mr coelho , in my view , the postponement of one year served no useful purpose , for the simple reason that american interests - and when i say american interests i mean the interests of one section of american industry - are clearly interests which run counter to the general improvement of standards , even more so in the case of ' hushkits ' .
there are only two things that will cause them to shift position : pressure from the european union or pressure from their own public opinion for , unfortunately , the united states is a vast territory and the environs of airports are less badly affected than the territories overflown in europe , which is , by virtue of its geographical layout , affected more seriously by such constraints .
we might at best revise them , but we could do so only in one instance : if an international agreement makes it possible to improve the situation and to draw up an overall framework agreement .
mr president , commissioner , as you know , i live in bilbao , a city in the basque country which , like other european cities , is very densely populated .
on 29 april 1999 , the european union adopted a council regulation with a view to controlling and reducing the noise produced by subsonic aircraft engines , limiting in due course the use of silencers , which do not resolve the problem completely , and helping airlines to update their fleets with new generation aircraft which create less pollution .
only under these circumstances could we accept a delay in our regulation for third countries .
we know there are better long-term solutions because we know our regulation applies only in europe .
your objective , madame palacio , is to get that world-wide effect .
suggest that to them , madame palacio .
there are four points i would like to bring out in this debate .
firstly , there must be a concerted , world-wide effort to produce more stringent noise standards for aircraft .
thirdly , our own regulation 925 / 1999 on hushkitted aircraft must come into force in undiminished form .
they must withdraw the complaint they filed under article 84 of the icao .
the regulation on silencers means nothing more than implementing the noise levels of 1978 and we are in the year 2000 .
i wish to make it very clear that the regulation on silencers comes into force on 4 may for european airline companies .
the regulation comes into force for european airlines on 4 may .
nevertheless , ladies and gentlemen , if we could reach an agreement with the united states to act jointly , in order to obtain lower levels and greater requirements in terms of aircraft noise emission , i would be prepared to make a proposal to this parliament and the council to suspend the provisions of the current regulation with regard to third countries .
mediterranean policy the next item is the joint debate on twelve oral questions on mediterranean policy by the following members : napoletano , sakellariou , obiols i germa , nair , on behalf of the pse group , to the council ( b5-0015 / 2000 ) ; napoletano , sakellariou , obiols i germa , nair , on behalf of the pse group , to the commission ( b5-0016 / 2000 ) ; rutelli , on behalf of the eldr group , to the council ( b5-0202 / 2000 ) ; rutelli , on behalf of the eldr group , to the commission ( b5-0203 / 2000 ) ; morgantini , on behalf of the gue / ngl group , to the council ( b5-0204 / 2000 ) ; morgantini , on behalf of the gue / ngl group , to the commission ( b5-0205 / 2000 ) ; queiro , muscardini , on behalf of the uen group , to the council ( b5-0210 / 2000 ) ; queiro , muscardini , on behalf of the uen group , to the commission ( b5-0211 / 2000 ) ; fiori , on behalf of the ppe / de group , to the council ( b5-0212 / 2000 ) ; fiori , on behalf of the ppe / de group , to the commission ( b5-0213 / 2000 ) ; bautista ojeda , on behalf of the verts / ale group , to the council ( b5-0214 / 2000 ) ; bautista ojeda , on behalf of the verts / ale group , to the commission ( b5-0215 / 2000 ) .
mr president , great is the frustration and disappointment of the european parliament , almost five years on from the barcelona declaration , at the lack of progress made in the implementation of the programmes and objectives it set out .
finally , mr president , may i say that the union ' s mediterranean policy could become one of the common strategies laid down by article 12 of the treaty on european union regarding foreign and security policy , and that we could also promote the political dimension of the issue through parliamentary debate .
the second point is more specific .
our feeling , which will become apparent from the resolution which is to be put to the vote , is that complete priority has been given to a procedure for the development of a free trade area , shifting the emphasis from other policies which , in our opinion , should go hand in hand with the objective of building a free trade area , which we fully support .
and yet two of the fundamental causes of the breakdown in the debate have now been eliminated : a new commission is installed in brussels which numbers the creation of a euro-mediterranean area of peace and stability among one of its priorities , and peace negotiations between israel , palestine , syria and the lebanon are once again in progress .
at the same time , however , i would stress that the bilateral approach hitherto adopted by the commission does not seem adequate to meet the numerous challenges presented by the mediterranean .
mr president , commissioner , mr president-in-office of the council , the need to create a euro-mediterranean area of peace , economic justice , citizenship and stability is common to both sides of the mediterranean .
the mediterranean is still the greatest benchmark of europe ' s capacity to exert influence beyond its borders .
the mediterranean policy is set in a context of wide-ranging interests and latent tensions , and it therefore has to include various different elements such as the development of peace-keeping initiatives - now that the middle east peace process has been relaunched - and we are grateful for the way that the pope ' s visit to the holy land is improving relations between the different religions , leading them towards mutual understanding and support , and the creation of partnership projects involving northern and southern europe , for the very reason that the objective of transforming the mediterranean into an area of dialogue , tolerance and cooperation that guarantees peace and stability cannot be achieved without firm political will and sustainable , balanced social development .
the need for a different , more efficient mediterranean policy for the developing countries in the basin cannot be disregarded .
the process defined in barcelona in 1995 for building an effective euro-mediterranean partnership is still ongoing , despite the intention expressed by the european union governments to include the mediterranean policy among their priorities , an intention fully supported by our group .
the forging of multilateral relations has not led to sustained expansion , and the cultural , social and human partnership is highly inadequate .
our group has faith in the mediterranean , and wants the european union to accord to it the strategic , economic and political importance it once had .
this is no need to remind you of the important common interests we have with those countries in terms of agriculture and fishing , nor the serious shared problems relating to immigration between andalusia and morocco , which create added difficulties .
european regions such as andalusia , which are very close to the countries of the maghreb , share more interests and problems with those countries than they do with other member states of the union , and far more than they do with the future candidates for enlargement .
in fact , this love-hate situation between certain community regions and the maghreb creates unnecessary tensions , both economic and social , which we must resolve by putting all our powers of negotiation on the table and by using all the existing mechanisms , or new ones which should be created , in order to relaunch euro-mediterranean cooperation .
another purpose is to prepare for the barcelona iv formal meeting of foreign ministers which will be held in marseilles in november under the barcelona process .
we think that it is important to undertake this assessment not just to be consistent in following up what we have already done in stuttgart , but also in order to analyse new priorities in some sectors where cooperation needs to be developed further .
as to establishing a free trade area , which is another area in the process of mediterranean relations , we feel that this should not be seen as an end in itself , but as a means of improving our citizens ' living conditions and of increasing their level of income .
the establishment of this area will certainly give the mediterranean countries an opportunity , by means of a process of free trade , to be part of a more interdependent world and , in this way , not to remain on the fringes of this global trend towards greater prosperity and well-being .
with regard to the meda programme , which is an important instrument in this context , the total sum available to the meda ii programme for the period 2000-2006 has not yet been announced and the commission has stated that it will soon announce proposals for distributing budget heading iv for external relations , which includes the meda programme .
the council is looking at the proposal submitted by the commission at the end of last year to simplify and improve the meda regulation procedures , in response to a request from our mediterranean partners .
the meda programme also funds activities in the areas of education and professional training , currently to the tune of around eur 1 billion per annum .
under the barcelona process , a meeting of employment and professional training experts will be held on 31 march and 1 april , precisely in order to look at how the southern mediterranean countries can be helped to define national policies for employment and professional training and to exchange information and experience .
with regard to the role of the high representative for common foreign and security policy , which was mentioned in one of the questions to council , i would like to confirm that the european union attaches the greatest importance to promoting a coherent and comprehensive policy for the mediterranean region .
we intend to play an active role in this area , not only in the context of the barcelona process , but also with regard to the middle east peace process itself .
the high representative is particularly committed to issues of this kind and took part in the last meeting , held in moscow , of the ministerial steering committee , which gave fresh impetus to the multilateral track of the middle east peace process , in which the european union is involved .
other specific issues on which the eu intends to continue working are , as you will be aware , the drafting of a common strategy on the mediterranean , as was decided at the cologne european council and reiterated at the helsinki european council .
this is more of a horizontal , multilateral common strategy , and involves a set of approaches which , in our opinion , must attempt to go further than the barcelona process itself .
by this i mean that if the common strategy does nothing more than repeat what is in the barcelona process , we will gain no added value in terms of a coherent eu policy towards our southern partners .
the european union is also working on an issues paper on the future of the region so as to be prepared to play its full role when peace is achieved through the middle east peace process .
with regard to the euro-mediterranean charter for peace and stability , which has attracted the attention of this parliament and which is occupying the council , following the remit given by the stuttgart ministerial conference in april 1999 , a schedule for work on this issue was drawn up , and meetings on this subject were held in november , december and march .
in response to another question , the council does not currently envisage a multilateral treaty between third countries .
while i am on this subject , mr president , i would like to say that many of the complaints made about how the mediterranean process is working are very often mirrored in the way north-south relations function .
with regard to the euro-mediterranean partnership , the french presidency intends to pursue the work that was started in the hague in march 1999 on migration and the exchange of peoples , by organising a new meeting of high-level officials in the second half of this year .
regarding the target date of 2010 and the question we have been asked about setting up a committee to look into what action may be necessary , we do not currently intend to set up any committee , but it is our firm intention to pursue and to conclude negotiations for association agreements between the eu and the mediterranean countries as quickly as possible .
the association agreement with morocco recently came into force , on 1 march , and the presidency is certain , given the progress made in ratification at national level , that the agreement with israel can also come into force in june .
the countries of the southern mediterranean have to understand that we must be in a position to guarantee equal treatment and that delaying tactics cannot be used to gain advantages in agreements signed at a later stage .
in particular , they must understand that earlier agreements cannot be reviewed in the light of benefits subsequently acquired in later agreements .
the european union has made efforts to show the southern mediterranean countries that establishing the single market has been a positive experience .
with regard to the middle east peace process , the question parliament has asked raises a fundamental issue .
the visibility of the middle east peace process is not an end in itself for the european union .
we have been steadfast in our support for this peace process not only through considerable economic assistance - and i would like to make it clear that this assistance is unparalleled in the history of the middle east - but also through the political initiatives themselves and their constructive support for the efforts of the united states and other key participants .
we will do what we can to assist the peace process , because it is peace that we are interested in and not our own visibility in this peace process .
in this area , i would like to make clear our commitment to the palestinian track , through our support for implementing agreements which have been concluded and by offering to contribute to discussions on that country ' s permanent status .
together with the united states and russia , who are co-sponsors of the multilateral track in the process which was started in 1991 in madrid , the council has been working towards normal recommencement of the activities under this track , after an interruption of three years .
in their capacity as joint chairs of the working group on economic and regional development , which has 53 members within the region and outside it , the council and the commission will bring this group together at a meeting on 8 to 11 may .
the european union will also host the next meeting of the steering group in july .
at its meeting of 24 january , the council asked the high representative , assisted by the special envoy and the commission , to look more closely at issues in which the european union is specifically committed to playing a major role , such as issues concerning security , water and refugees .
cooperation with civil society , which is one of the points raised in another question , is still an essential element in the development of the third chapter of the barcelona process .
a whole range of activities has already been developed , such as the establishment of a youth forum , and i hope that at the lisbon summit we can look at which areas these activities under the third chapter can be focused on , in order to enable civil society to play an increasingly important role in this area .
regarding the arab maghreb union , the council is convinced of the importance and the need for cooperation in a region of 80 million inhabitants sharing the same language and religion .
the council has confirmed its desire to see libya participate fully in the barcelona process and hopes that it will be able to give its full and unreserved acceptance of the barcelona acquis .
the ambassadorial troika has , in fact , just visited libya , on 26 and 27 march to be precise , and it was made quite clear to libya that its acceptance of the barcelona acquis would mean that it would have to negotiate an association agreement with the european union in order to be able to join the euro-mediterranean free trade area to be established by 2010 .
the issue of negotiating an agreement of this kind with libya is not currently on the agenda , but the council will discuss this if and when it becomes an issue .
under the portuguese proposal presented under the mediterranean forum and subsequently followed up through the barcelona process , a conference on investment throughout the mediterranean area was held in lisbon on 28 february to 11 march at which there was substantial representation from the private sector .
the participants highlighted the low and inadequate flow of investment to the mediterranean region in comparison with its potential , and in comparison with other parts of the world .
the council confirms that it is willing to contribute to establishing a climate of trust between all parties in order to find a solution to the problem of the western sahara based on human rights and on respect for democratic principles .
i have , of course , been answering a very long series of questions , and if i did not give the various questions the attention they deserve , certain honourable members might naturally start thinking that the presidency was not paying due attention to their questions .
we have gone into great detail on some of the different aspects of current mediterranean policy , even though this subject deserves even more detailed treatment in my opinion .
although there are grounds for disappointment in view of the expectations raised by the launching of the barcelona process in november 1995 - and i am perhaps one of the few people here to have been present at that launch , at the signing of that agreement - this is largely attributable to the political circumstances in the middle east , which were favourable in november 1995 but which have deteriorated considerably since then with the impasse that has arisen in the peace process .
nevertheless , we should not forget that despite these problems , the barcelona process has been able to continue and i think that it is important to highlight the fact that this is the only body that has managed to get the mediterranean arab countries , israel and the european union round the same table , which , in my opinion , in itself represents a considerable step forward .
the economic objective of the partnership is to create an area of shared prosperity through the progressive establishment of free trade accompanied by substantial eu financial support for economic transition and to help the partners confront the social and economic challenges which this implies .
the implementation of meda has been subject to criticism , some justified , some not .
the commission has put forward a proposal to amend the meda regulation to ensure a more strategic approach to programming , better coordination with other donors , including the member states , and streamlining of procedures .
the proposal is still under discussion in the council , and i fear , that far from supporting these objectives , the council may be moving in the direction of making the procedure even heavier .
we shall use meda to support the partners ' efforts in this respect .
regional cooperation to ensure that the region presents a unified market is also vital .
i want to encourage the harmonisation of single market measures among all partners - an action programme should be agreed later this year - and to offer diagonal cumulation of origin to those partners who agree free trade among themselves .
investments in these areas are primarily supported by loans from the european investment bank as well as other donors .
support for civil society is key to the development of the human dimension of the partnership .
mr president , at this stage it is obvious that this parliamentary initiative is born out of a general sense of concern in this house about the slowness , and even paralysis in some areas , in implementing agreements reached within the framework of the barcelona conference , almost four years ago .
from this point of view , parliament is justified in repeating its request that the european union make a more decisive contribution to the peace process in the middle east , especially given that the parties in the conflict requested this explicitly during the recent visit to the region by the president of the european parliament .
we are convinced that , in order to be successful , a european union common foreign and security policy must be based on the concept of balance in order to respond to the sensibilities of all the member states and , therefore , of all the citizens .
mr president , in november , five years will have passed since the signing of the barcelona declaration .
in this respect , this debate and the motions for resolutions tabled by the groups in this parliament are very appropriate initiatives .
the summits and meetings have always been held with the presence of all the countries involved , including syria , lebanon and israel .
however , these results cannot lead us to ignore the delays and shortcomings which , in part , have frustrated the hopes and expectations raised at the first euro-mediterranean conference of november 1995 .
it will depend to a large extent on the policy of the european union as to whether this region becomes a ' sun belt ' with a new economic and social balance in a context of security , development and peace , or a ' slum belt ' where the norm will be an increasing imbalance between north and south , galloping poverty in the south and the progressive emergence - forgive the repetition - of every type of emergency : violence , instability , terrorism and uncontrollable migratory pressures .
secondly , i believe that , as a result of this lack of political direction , the economic and financial dimension has experienced obstacles and delays .
in this respect , we should point out the difficulties involved in launching the meda programmes , the excesses of centralisation , the heterogeneous nature of aid criteria , the lack of joint reflection on the possibility of a common mediterranean agricultural policy and , thirdly , and as a consequence the tiny amount of direct investment in the south : just 2 % of the total of the european union ' s direct foreign investments .
in conclusion , a new phase is necessary , with the portuguese and french presidencies , a brand new start for euro-mediterranean policy , which could promote a ' virtuous ' circle encompassing the objectives which were correctly drawn up at the euro-mediterranean conference in barcelona in november 1995 .
thank you very much , mr obiols .
mr president , the council and the commission should take good note of parliament ' s practically unanimous position in favour of the relaunch of the union ' s mediterranean policy , as was established at the euro-mediterranean conference in barcelona in 1995 , under the spanish presidency , and whose characteristics have already been highlighted here .
on the other hand , we know that certain obstacles , basically political ones , have hindered its correct application .
i would simply like to remind you that , within a few years , the population in the south of the mediterranean will be greater than that of the north , but that practically all the wealth will be in the north rather than the south .
if the european union does not act quickly to redress the balance of this situation , both from a demographic point of view and from a social , economic and political point of view , we will be creating an explosive situation for future generations to deal with .
it is therefore a political priority to show political leadership , obviously accompanied by economic cooperation in order to improve the expectations of these populations and bring prosperity and stability to the whole of the mediterranean , because the prosperity and stability of the european union also depends on this .
i am very pleased to see that the joint resolution adopts the suggestion we made to ask the commission and the council to publish an annual report on the situation regarding human rights and the rule of law in the countries of the mediterranean .
we should therefore tell those countries where human rights are not observed that bilateral relations may be forced backwards , and we should tell the countries where there is real progress , such as in morocco or elsewhere , that bilateral relations may go forwards .
the situation of the rule of law and human rights in this country is scandalous .
i am bringing up these subjects because i believe we must not cease to remind the countries of the mediterranean of their responsibilities as regards the rule of law and human rights .
it is not enough to achieve good results in agriculture or anything else .
respect for human rights must take precedence in our policy , and that is not the case at present .
first of all , the objective of a policy of this type must be to tackle the blatant disparities between the northern and southern shores of the mediterranean , which keep the peoples of the south in an explosive economic and social situation .
the euro-mediterranean process thus calls for a pooling of resources which should be advantageous to all concerned in moving towards a common area of prosperity , which was the objective set in barcelona .
i should finally like to say that , besides working towards peace in the middle east , which the european union must continue to strive for , i am just as keen to seeing europe play a much more active part in ensuring that the referendum on self-determination in the western sahara , which is under serious threat , is held in the conditions stipulated under un authority .
because of the complementarity that actually exists between the interests of the two continents of europe and africa , this vast euro-african entity which necessarily revolves around the mediterranean , our mediterranean policy is invested with an importance , and i might say a seriousness , which unfortunately finds little reflection in the programmes carried out to date by the european institutions and the fact that , as in the case of meda , three quarters of the programmes adopted are still not applied .
this would mean , for example , accepting countries such as morocco , tunisia or algeria into the union as member states in their own right .
pessimism , too , because our transatlantic partner , the united states of america , has fully understood that there is no better way to subject europe to its domination than by cutting the productive links europe may establish with its neighbours around the mediterranean and is striving to erect a vague but effective wall between the two sides of the mediterranean .
all in all , on this matter , as on other matters , it is only the nations that can attempt to take up this great challenge , primarily france , which is still the leading power on the mediterranean coastline , by means of its arab policy and its policy of establishing links throughout the french-speaking world .
i join them in hoping that structural improvements are taking place in the regions concerned .
it will also lead to a more balanced mediterranean policy on the part of the eu .
the concept of partnership implies the articulation not just of european but also of mediterranean thoughts on political and economic cooperation .
we also need to give the management and implementation of the meda programme our attention .
i think that now we must all do everything we can to prove to the people in all the mediterranean countries that we recognise them as equal partners and offer them assistance , both in order to restore their trust in us as well as to solve their economic and social problems .
all this helps to shape the development of the euro-mediterranean partnership and give it direction .
we must contribute to the development of a favourable climate for private investment , with technical assistance support which provides the same kind of support and aid for these third countries as that supplied to the cee countries , the possibility of an interregional and transnational cooperation programme aimed at achieving complementarity and integration between the countries of the mediterranean basin through coordination between the meda and interreg programmes , and the possibility of a new generation of programmes to remedy the current fragmentation and inefficiency of a host of community programmes for the southern mediterranean , which , at a rough count , already involve over seventeen different directorates of the commission and countless microprojects which , in all probability , do not fulfil this purpose .
mr president , i believe that this debate is appropriate at the end of the five-year period for which meda was programmed , but i also believe that we are going to have time to discuss this new regulation , which at the moment is being debated in this house .
i hope that this parliament will support it .
in the few seconds allocated to me , i will simply refer to two aspects which i believe should be dealt with urgently in relation to the meda programmes .
it seems essential to me , since we want an area of free trade and prosperity , and since we also want to push decisively for democratisation in this area in the southern mediterranean , that we support the men and women who are trying to work in this field .
i believe furthermore that the commission must have sufficient human and material resources to do so .
the second issue which concerns me is the inclusion of immigration in the regulation .
mr president , commissioner , mr president-in-office of the council , this is a good day to raise a series of euro-mediterranean considerations , since a series of cultural , social , religious and political events are taking place which cannot pass unnoticed by those of us , looking on from europe , who wish the best for the countries bordering the mediterranean which furthermore , throughout history , have lived alongside certain european countries .
in general , we have seen a common desire on the part of these countries to associate themselves with their neighbours in the north who form part of the european union , since they see us as their sole hope of solving the problems they are facing on a day-to-day basis .
let me draw the attention of our fellow members to these reports which are currently being discussed in committee and which are to be presented before the house in june .
at this juncture , i should like to highlight two important points : firstly , meda is a good programme , a young programme , which has to date suffered from inefficiencies in its implementation .
there is also the definition of a common area of peace and stability , and the concern for rapprochement of peoples by means of a social and cultural partnership .
we therefore request that the council and the commission publish a report annually , or every two years , on human rights in the countries participating in the barcelona process , which could be used as a basis for the implementation of cooperative operations between the european union and third countries .
tunisia , which daniel cohn-bendit has just mentioned , has alone received 10 % of the meda appropriations , almost all of which have been paid .
in the minute i have , let me say that the european union ' s mediterranean policy lacks strategy , and it lacks a timetable and clear objectives in contrast , if you will , to its policy on eastern europe .
the third point is that in my opinion the european union has no autonomy .
mr president , commissioner , i feel that progress in the middle east peace process is crucial to the development of the euro-mediterranean policy , and that this issue is central to the resolution we are debating today .
however , we must ponder the european union ' s role in furthering the peace process .
i therefore support all the points of this report which highlight the need for economic interventions that bolster the development of programmes and the development of private investment and boost the presence of private operators from the european union in the territories which border israel .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the european union ' s professed determination to have an ambitious mediterranean policy is not a new one , at least in terms of the speeches made and the declarations of intent , and our discussions this evening only confirm this .
from lisbon in 1992 to cannes in 1995 , and especially in barcelona that same year , there have always been requests for a strong euro-mediterranean partnership to be established .
the european union and twelve mediterranean countries were consequently pleased to adopt the famous barcelona declaration in 1995 .
this declaration had particularly great ambitions in economic and financial , political and security , social , cultural and human terms .
as others have said before me , however , our partners have felt even more disappointed since this date : with very few association agreements and no agreements actually implemented yet , considerable amounts of european appropriations anticipated , but fewer allocated and still less actually paid , as all our partners keep telling us time and again .
the results of all this are disastrous : the disillusionment of our partners , inadequate economic development , illegal immigration into europe and a general upturn in fundamentalism .
it is therefore necessary , as everyone this evening has said , to relaunch the barcelona process , to simplify its administrative procedures , to agree to open our european markets further and to cancel debts , all this in return for the necessary efforts of our partners in matters of human rights , and all this in the context of an overall mediterranean vision which will have to ensure balance and peace between all the areas which , together , form the euro-mediterranean area .
as a socialist , i therefore support the substance of the proposals included in our joint resolution .
the holy father shows us that the religious aspect of the conflicts cannot be disregarded , and that dialogue between religions is just as much a factor in stability as political dialogue .
firstly , with regard to regional cooperation - and the presidency has just answered this in part - the union bases its mediterranean policy on the barcelona process .
it is reasonable to think that cooperation between the mediterranean states should be much stronger .
the second question concerns the role of the european parliament , and it must be noted that , at present , it is too limited .
it would be necessary either to reconcile the european parliament with the forum , along the lines of the acp-eu joint assembly , or to organise the more active and regular participation of the european parliament in ministerial meetings .
we now have an association agreement with morocco , in force since 2 march , which makes that country a privileged partner .
however , there can be no close cooperation with morocco without dealing with an activity - fishing - on which the economies of many european regions depend .
i would like to mention the fisheries agreement between the european community and morocco , which expired on 30 november last year .
not to renew that agreement would be a backwards step in our mediterranean policy , because if that policy is to be more than empty rhetoric , we must make progress in specific cases .
there are fears about enlargement and there is a feeling that the balance is more in favour of the north and the east and less in favour of the south .
european union actions are still very diffuse and complex in this area .
the barcelona conference corresponds more to political will than to a genuine strategy aimed at creating a real euro-mediterranean area , where economics play an important part , but only one part , in a permanent dialogue and political cooperation in the social and cultural areas and also in the defence of mutual interests in order to guarantee the peace and stability which we all wish to see in this region .
therefore , although this humble mep does not represent a multinational lobby , he asks that the time allocated to his group be respected .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i read the documents we are discussing today with interest and i noticed that parliament ' s request affects a great many sectors , maybe even too many .
now , in my opinion , when you ask for everything - which it is always a good idea to do , just in case - the results are often unspectacular .
it is also important to give new impetus to the meda programmes and at the same time to strengthen programmes such as meda-democracy , euromed-audiovisual , and sub-regional training programmes for journalists .
i think that an important and catalytic role in ensuring the successful outcome of the euro-mediterranean partnership must be played by the mediterranean islands , such as malta , cyprus and crete , as the middle ground between the two sides of the mediterranean .
the debate is closed .
my report , mr president , on the one hand reflects the critical feeling of all the groups with regard to aspects of form and substance in the presentation and preparation of the plans .
we have not been able to examine each one of them individually and we have had to limit ourselves to very general considerations and , on this basis , make proposals which i hope will be taken into account by the commission and the council for these and for future action plans .
mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , the very fact that these action plans are to be implemented is positive in itself .
it is also positive that we have combined action plans in the fields of foreign policy , cooperation and development and in adopting measures to regulate migratory flows .
our basic concern relates to the possible effectiveness of the actions planned for countries such as afghanistan , somalia or iraq , where political instability is combined with constant violations of the most basic human rights .
quite different is the case of morocco , or even albania or sri lanka , where there is a greater likelihood of multi-sectoral cooperation , and there are countries with privileged situations such as morocco , where we have just implemented an association agreement .
we cannot criminalise immigration , whether it is for economic or political reasons .
it should be understood that it is crucial to implement the provisions of the treaty of amsterdam and the tampere summit on the ' communitisation ' of asylum policy and the fair and humanitarian treatment of refugees and immigrants .
as well as economic immigration and cooperation with countries of origin , we should deal with the question of labour market legislation in the member states themselves , the social integration of immigrants and the fight against the mafia-types involved in the trafficking in human beings .
he has already emphasised , and rightly so , that although migration and asylum are closely related issues , they are nevertheless substantially different and require different responses from the european union , although it should be borne in mind and recognised that in both cases there are advantages in applying a cross-pillar and global approach .
we know that increasing numbers of people are seeking better opportunities or protection through migration , in order to escape war , persecution , poverty , unemployment or violations of their human rights .
we know that there is an increase in illegal migratory movement , for the most part controlled by criminal networks that often create situations involving exploitation and blatant violation of human rights .
we obviously support a global approach including support for democratisation and promotion of the rule of law , support for the prevention of conflicts and for reconciliation , respect for human rights and the development within countries and regions of origin and of transit of the fight against poverty , by improving living conditions and by creating greater opportunities for employment .
information campaigns must be undertaken in close cooperation with the countries of origin and of transit , publicising the real opportunities for legal emigration , in an attempt to reduce or eliminate the problem at its source .
in short , we agree with a common european policy on asylum and immigration based on four pillars : partnership with the countries of origin , a common european asylum system , fair treatment of immigrants from third countries and more efficient management of migratory flows .
mr president , i would like firstly to express , on behalf of my group , our unease at this council proposal at a time when , within the union , we are working - and this is shown in the initiatives which the commission has taken and is taking - on the communitisation of what we have called the ' third pillar ' and on the development of an immigration and reception policy for citizens from third countries .
on the one hand , what they say seems reasonable ; it seems reasonable to establish bilateral policies between the european union and some of the countries in which the problem of the exodus of migrants and refugees is greatest ; this seems useful .
this is the case with morocco , for example , with whom we must establish a serious and significant bilateral relationship in order to ensure that the immigration originating from that country remains within the law .
this may also be the case with the balkan countries , where it is clear who our partners are .
on the other hand , however , there are countries on this list whose governments do not even deserve to be described as such , and countries with which i do not think we should speak , such as afghanistan .
we have come to tell you to respect human rights because you are sending us too many refugees . ' this would be absolutely incredible or , at least , very naive .
furthermore , it seems to me that broaching this issue with these countries is difficult and dangerous .
therefore , since we cannot adopt a cross-pillar approach - that is to say , between the third and the first pillar - taking the shortest route , i believe that the council should once again consult this parliament on each and every action plan which is to be set up , in accordance with the provisions of the first pillar .
it is difficult to see how the idea of codevelopment and the idea of working with these countries in order to tackle immigration at source can be compatible with the idea of taking away funds earmarked for cooperation in development , in order to guard external borders .
finally , the development of action plans is on the ' scoreboard ' .
i would like too to pay tribute to the work that the commission has done in this area .
we face a number of challenges in a world where the drive for emigration and the drive for immigration into europe is still substantial .
clearly , we face a situation where there are push factors in countries of origin and pull factors in our own countries .
this report sets out a number of proposals for action which are , in my view , to be welcomed .
mr president , unfortunately the action plans of the high level working group on asylum and migration hardly do justice to the task in hand .
no one would deny that this is an area where countries can gain from mutual collaboration but , of course , there is nothing new about cooperation among our home countries in the asylum field .
since long before the signing of the treaty of rome , the member states of the union have been bound together by a complex web of agreements covering the right of asylum , the treatment of refugees , the principle of non-refoulement and much else .
in my own constituency of south-east england the local police and immigration services long enjoyed excellent relations with their french and belgian counterparts .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , this report highlights the many errors and omissions which the action plans contain .
another error is that questions relating to asylum and those relating to emigration have been dealt with in the same way .
with some countries europe is signing agreements which include readmission clauses authorising the deportation of third country nationals without the political , economic and social situation of the individual or the country being taken into account .
the best solution to reduce the flow of migration is to support development in these countries and support the welfare of these peoples .
in conclusion , would it not be more urgent to harmonise our asylum and migration policies and to establish a genuine community policy on the subject ?
i will speak only about sri lanka , a country i have visited , and a country many of whose citizens have sought refuge in london and other parts of the european union .
the only solution must be a brokered peace .
my colleague , anna terron , has said that this report is naive .
i feel that the report skirts around the real issue and is a diversion from the debate that we ought to be having on sri lanka and the other countries .
the report says that there is no end to the ethnic conflict in sri lanka .
so when the report says , mr president , that we should look for ways to find a political solution to this conflict , i agree .
nothing else will solve the problems or lessen the human rights abuses .
therefore , in view of the security issue and the problem of migration , which has its roots in poor countries which are beset with problems , where individuals , groups and families need to find not only a means for self-expression but also a completely different , secure environment , i feel that it is essential for community policy to be comprehensive . - ( pt ) mr president , the action plans under way in the council ' s high-level working group are , as we all know , an unreliable instrument for jointly tackling a problem which , for some , is merely one of security and for others is merely one of integration , and it is usually impossible to tell where the line between the right to asylum ends and the right to economic survival begins .
the action plans that tampere accepted and stated should continue , in spite of their inability to cope with the complexity of the problem , could nevertheless be improved until the european union can equip itself with an asylum and immigration policy of its own .
i understand that the parliament is taking a cautious approach to these action plans and the commission would like to follow the same line .
on the one hand , the commission is pleased to see that in broad terms the approach of the council in developing these action plans is very much in line with the approach advocated by the commission in its communication on migration of 1994 that enjoyed broad support in this parliament .
implementing these plans will need , as has already been stressed by several members of the house , a combination of very different policies : political cooperation , human rights , rule of law and democracy , commercial , social and development policies , economic assistance need to be fitted together with measures aiming at better management of migration flowing from these countries and regions .
the partnership with the third countries concerned will be always a key element for the success of such a policy with a view to promoting co-development .
i would therefore support your view that we will need to initiate a political dialogue on the implementation of the action plan on an agreed basis of mutual benefit both for member states of the union and for the third countries .
we have to recognise that this political dialogue will have to take into account the very different political situation in each of the five countries .
therefore , i would like to emphasise the important role that non-governmental organisations will have in the implementation of these action plans .
i would very much agree with your observation that the european union should adopt a long-term structural policy to tackle the causes of migration and i therefore agree that the deadlines set in the action plans are rather optimistic .
the action plans , however , can be considered as a first step in creating an external policy on migration of the european union and should therefore be given a chance .
implementation will require close cooperation between the council and its competent bodies , the commission and member states in accordance with their respective responsibilities as defined in the treaty .
the important role member states have to play was , by the way , acknowledged at the justice and home affairs council of last monday , 27 march .
the presidency has called on the member states to turn their political commitments into real activities , a request that the commission has supported .
the commission is , of course , ready to play the active role it is expected to play , especially in areas such as development and economic assistance , human rights , good governance and institution building .
let me assure you anyway that the commission will take its own responsibilities in the development of a common internal european union immigration and asylum policy as foreseen in the conclusions of tampere .
the debate is closed .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , we face an enormous challenge with the budget for the year 2001 .
the main priority for the budget 2001 must still be to remain active in the fight against unemployment .
apart from this core initiative for the budget 2001 , we must not allow the quality of economic and political integration achieved in the meantime to eclipse our cultural identity as europeans .
the european parliament also stands by these commitments .
we know that the council also stands by its commitments and , at the donor conference today , the portuguese foreign minister stated , in his capacity as president-in-office of the council , that the council wished to secure lasting stability in the balkans and that efforts would need to be made over several years in order to achieve this .
however , we expect the council to set itself these new challenges and to act accordingly .
gaining the ability to act in this important foreign policy area while , at the same time , losing it in other foreign policy areas as the result of excessive savings is unacceptable .
i must stress the fact that we are not questioning the interinstitutional agreement per se ; we stand by this agreement , but we are calling for a review which takes real account of demands in a specific area , namely the additional cost of assistance for the balkans and certain other foreign policy measures .
we want to support these aspects in the coming budget and concentrate our efforts on these areas .
compared with a total budget of eur 965 million , that does not represent too big a bite out of the cake at our disposal .
i only have to look at the commission ' s work programme , with its 108 codecision procedures , to see that this is a challenge which we did not have to face in the past .
i should like to thank everyone who worked with us on this , especially our own administration , for their correct and very positive preliminary work , and all the honourable members who made it possible for us to present a proper result to plenary despite the limited time available .
we have a persistent and clear need to continue to work towards greening the budget in all areas of policy activity and i want to see further work on this this year .
in particular we want to consider the problems that the treaty of amsterdam presents and the fact that the full financial implications of the treaty of amsterdam are only being realised this year and we have to take account of that .
the committee also wants to reiterate its support for continued financial assistance to ngo participation in much of the technical committee work of the parliament and the commission .
the committee requests that a programme for employment be created , specifically targeting women and , to this end , requests that a budget line be created to finance it , with the fundamental aim of achieving equality between men and women in the workplace , not only by means of measures to protect that equality but also by means of special formulae , which will allow women to integrate fully in the labour market without jeopardising other aspects of their lives .
the committee stresses the importance of the collaboration between those non-governmental organisations and associations , whose activities complement the community action programmes , to achieving the european union ' s aims with regard to equal opportunities between men and women . - ( pt ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , the guidelines for the 2001 budgetary procedure as laid down in the haug report are a starting point for a debate on the european union budget for 2001 which promises to be both arduous and heated throughout the year .
going back to the first four paragraphs of the motion for a resolution , which identify the european parliament ' s political priorities , and then those that contain the essence of its position , i would like to highlight the following aspects : appropriate funding is being promoted for the new policies introduced by the treaty of amsterdam as well as for the policies that have been strengthened by the treaty in the fields of internal and external action .
let there be investment , then , in a culture of initiative .
the report restates the need for a sustainable and multiannual contribution to financial aid for the reconstruction of kosovo and for the stabilisation of the balkans as part of a review of the financial perspective .
it rejects such financing if it is to be provided at the expense of existing commitments , either involving external actions or through cuts in the common agricultural policy or other policies .
the drive towards efficiency is especially vital in the context of enlargement .
it is important even at this early stage that we have a clear strategy on how the institutions will respond to the accession of new members .
the institutions cannot respond to enlargement by just adding an extra post here or an office there .
this is especially important in relation to linguistic support .
as everybody here needs to recognise , there are major limitations in relation to resources that will be available as a result of enlargement and there are implications for the financial perspective in relation to category 5 expenditure .
however , these guidelines are not just about enlargement they are about policy direction for all the institutions next year .
to conclude , our group ' s priorities are that these guidelines are budgetary prudence , improving efficiency , more effective budgetary control , better use of resources and general improvements in services and management , so i call upon all the other institutions to take these on and implement these improvements vigorously .
for that reason we support the report insofar as it emphasises the importance of developing this within the framework of structural action .
in a later debate on the budget we wish to draw attention to the matter of sufficient appropriations for science and research and financing the fight against exclusion in all its forms , within the meaning of article 13 of the treaty .
it is only right that the commission , of all the institutions , should serve the interests of europe , although it has to be said that during the negotiations for budget 2000 we saw all too often how one half of the budgetary authority was mainly preoccupied with the national coffers .
mr president , commissioner , i must say that i feel rather uneasy when confronted with this report , especially after the amendments by the committee on budgets .
i hope that , beyond this vote , there will be enough of us to relaunch the initiative in time , in this spirit , and , this time , to hold out until the end .
i would also like to stress from the outset that , if we want to boost employment in the european union , it is of fundamental importance to build on the role of small and medium-sized enterprises for , when all is said and done , they are the hard core of our undertaking in europe .
last year , the european parliament brought the financial ceiling up for discussion at an early stage by seizing on the financing for kosovo and the entire balkans as leverage in our efforts to obtain a review of this ceiling .
so far , only some 30 % of women have access to the internet and high earners have three times more access to the internet than low earners .
we are calling for sustainable financing for civil dialogue and for the non-governmental organisations involved in it , in order to support their important role as the voice of the disadvantaged .
i congratulate you on being able to express yourself in less than the time allotted to you .
in the first year in which the full budgetary procedure comes to fruition , we are all bound to be highly enthusiastic .
they may be the regions in europe which are lagging behind in terms of economic development and which expect much from the solidarity of the european union , namely assistance to help them develop into a balanced system of cohesion within the european union , as far as living and working conditions are concerned .
she has said that we are prepared to work openly with the council and the commission .
in short , amending the financial perspective is not an end in itself , but should only be undertaken , in my view , as an absolute last resort .
mr president , securing the future has always been a difficult issue , irrespective of whether it takes the form of a white paper , deregulation , partnership or structural adjustment .
fighting unemployment through economic growth is the greatest challenge facing europe .
unless these funds are channelled back into the agricultural budget , agenda 2000 will be jeopardised , especially as further technical inconsistencies are to be expected .
mr president , we cannot give our assent to the general economic rationale of the resolution on the budget guidelines for the 2001 budgetary procedure as it now stands .
indeed , we would protest against the veritable misappropriation of funds which is proposed : the inappropriate use of resources reserved for agricultural expenditure under category i of the financial perspective as a source of funding to be used to meet funding requirements in the sphere of foreign policy .
it therefore constitutes an extremely dangerous precedent as far as our farmers are concerned .
this , moreover , is the message clearly expressed by the european council in lisbon , whose conclusions unequivocally refused to incorporate the commission ' s wish to reduce the agricultural budget by eur 300 million in 2001 , and by the same again in 2002 .
we accept it still less in light of the fact that the calculations for the european commission ' s ambitious balkans programme lack both discipline and precision , that the union ' s existing appropriations for kosovo cannot be spent in full and that other donor states are not meeting their financial commitments .
without a constant and intense effort in these fields there will be no competitiveness and a lack of competitiveness means no new jobs will be created .
we have therefore introduced an amendment to cover this .
however , it is not enough simply to give them access to new communication and information technologies .
in any event , the rapporteur has , in our judgement , correctly established the bases which will set the course for section iii of the union ' s budget for 2001 and we are happy to offer her our sincere congratulations on her work .
i make the point , mr president , as i did yesterday in the budgets committee , in the twelve years of the financial perspective there have been 38 revisions totalling over eur 7 000 billion of monies that have been involved in those revisions .
mr president , i congratulate both rapporteurs on their reports , which have received a high degree of consensus .
the rapporteur , mrs haug , has reached broad areas of compromise in her report , which we hope will be respected in the vote , and which we hope will strengthen parliament ' s commitment with regard to employment , culture , the new amsterdam policies and , no less importantly , the budgetary obligations and rights .
this house voted by a majority for a financial perspective which respected the political balances of berlin , even when we were all aware of its shortcomings in the face of unexpected external events .
if we have to finance new policies , we have to find new funding .
if the council intends to finance actions in the balkans at the expense of current external or agricultural policies , it would not only be showing a lack of political vision but it would also be failing in the commitments it has signed up to .
if we have a budgetary procedure , can we then establish if the main priority which we have now set at european level has been achieved , and where new jobs are being created or where new jobs are being destroyed ?
commissioner byrne quite rightly said that , as far as he was concerned , public health took priority .
then it was said that environmental protection took priority .
mr president , i want to thank the rapporteurs for their work and say that they have found a decent consensus and produced good reports .
if there are to be problems - and sometimes there are problems - it will be around this whole question of the proposal to finance the shortfall in category 4 with money from the agricultural section of the budget .
this proposal is more likely to create psychological problems throughout the european union in rural areas than real problems .
we need a little bit more clarity and there is tension building up between the institutions on this question of the balkans .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , to reflect the priorities of european policy in the budget of the european union , that is the objective of this highly premature debate on the budget 2001 .
the report suggests that the other institutions will also gradually follow this lead .
mr ferber , you referred in your report to other problems which need to be resolved .
as far as the commission ' s priorities are concerned , i should like to point out that the commission conducted the priorities debate at its meeting on 23 february where it came to the conclusion that particular account should be taken in the budget 2001 of the stronger foreign policy commitments of the european union and of the important objectives of promoting rural development and supporting the transition to an information society .
you demanded this of the commission and the council in your resolution of 16 december .
according to the financial perspective , compared with the budget 2000 , an increase of eur 3.1 billion for agricultural market expenditure would be possible from a purely theoretical point of view , according to the figures .
the commission proposal makes provision for a further increase of eur 2.8 billion for agricultural market expenditure .
i hope that this will also be supported by the budgetary authority because i think that this rural development programme offers a great deal of scope for promoting new endeavours in agricultural policy .
i think this move would seriously improve the transparency of the budget and i hope that the council will not stand by its initial rejection of this suggestion .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
the motion for a resolution which has been tabled takes account of this fact .
the worrying increase in the number of cases of sexual exploitation of children shows that the european union and its member states need to use every means at their disposal in order to protect the weakest members of our society , i.e .
each of us knows of cases of child abuse in our own country .
the european parliament flatly rejects this regulation on possible exceptions .
the member states must be proactive in opposing anything which encourages or plays down child sex tourism .
respect for the rights of the child must be anchored in the european treaties if we are to guarantee protection for children in principle .
all the points which it has now been decided should be regulated and taken into account in the future within the european union must be given the same consideration in accession negotiations , in relations with third countries and , most importantly , when deciding how development cooperation funds should be deployed .
this applies not only to our children but to all children .
i should therefore like to thank all my fellow members , especially those from the other committees involved , whose positions have been worked into my report .
child sex tourism is a tragic and distressing fact of life and this problem has become worse and more serious in certain regions of the world over recent years .
it is important to clarify the legal situation and to dispense with the notion of dual criminality .
we need a common approach in the european union and in the member states , in cooperation with the third countries in question .
children as persons with their own , inviolable rights deserve our special protection , irrespective of the country in which they live .
this protection must be guaranteed in both theory and practice .
in all the member states of the european union , the necessary legislative measures must be taken and the laws harmonised in order to guarantee the protection of children .
it is not only excellent in quality but also extremely useful .
indeed , the united nations convention of 20 november 1989 granted them specific rights and all our actions should take their inspiration from recognition of these rights .
secondly , this report makes a contribution to police and judicial cooperation in the european union .
i therefore support amendment no 4 calling for a european centre for missing children and victims of sexual abuse to be set up in order to coordinate the activities of the organisations set up in the member states .
it must be noted that the proposals made have only been implemented in part .
it is all very well to discuss the problem in the third world , but i believe , as previous speakers have said , that there are also major problems within the european union , and i have just learnt that the group of the party of european socialists has requested a separate vote on the important sections of this report .
these are extremely serious matters , involving high-ranking personalities , but it is all still perfectly concealed , completely outside the scope of the justice system .
we therefore urgently need an integrated and cohesive community policy on children and it is really sad - as others too have said - that the treaty of amsterdam does not provide the necessary legal base .
we should look towards the good example set by sweden .
mr president , in november 1996 , the european commission adopted its first communication on combating child sex tourism .
a year later , in november 1997 , a european parliament resolution and a council statement on ' tourism ' revealed the general consensus among the institutions on the broad lines of the commission communication .
since then , this support has been implemented in practical terms by the setting up of a new budget line , with the funds made available intended for campaigns to raise awareness , within the european union , and to combat the development of child sex tourism .
it has since been expressed in the council conclusions of 21 december 1999 , which display a new firm political commitment to resolving this significant social problem , which we are pledged to do .
at the same time , further progress in this direction will contribute to our response to the concerns expressed by european citizens at the development of this scourge .
you will have noted that community measures combating child sex tourism is progressing at a sustained rate along the lines of the strategy initially agreed , aiming , on the one hand , to reduce demand , particularly by means of cooperation with the tourist industry and the relevant ngos , and , on the other hand , to tackle the sources of supply in tourist destination countries by any appropriate means , including community policies for external relations and development cooperation .
the importance of this second aspect was , moreover , highlighted by the commission as early as 1998 when the support strategy for the development of sustainable tourism in developing countries was defined , which stipulated that the problem of child sex tourism should be taken into specific consideration as the subject of structured political dialogue with the countries most affected , particularly at regional level .
the development of child sex tourism flies in the face of the very idea of a human community united on the basis of ideals such as respect and dignity , and public welfare and remembrance .
the council joint action of 24 february 1997 on combating the trade in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children , stipulating that each member state should undertake to review its own national legislation on measures relating to types of deliberate behaviour , is exemplary in this regard .
other commission initiatives in the context of the increased involvement of the tourist industry have also had practical results , particularly in terms of drawing up and strengthening codes of conduct and other self-regulatory mechanisms in the tourist industry .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m .
it is on the very important subject of product liability on which the european community first introduced legislation as long ago as 1985 in the form of a directive .
this was transposed in a somewhat leisurely way , and in some cases we might even say in a shockingly slow way , by member states .
this legislation substitutes distributive justice , in a sense , for corrective justice in this very important area of the law of civil liability .
the green paper raised the question of whether this scheme should be extended and whether some changes should be made .
this was in response to debates in parliament last year , which led to the amendment of the directive to include primary agricultural products .
mr president , yesterday , ladies and gentlemen , an american court awarded the nicotine victim leslie whiteley compensation of no less than usd 44 million .
we want a liability law which promotes innovation and does not conceal incalculable liability risks for companies launching new products .
i should just like to make a few more comments on behalf of my group on a number of necessary amendments on which both we and the group of the european liberal democrat and reform party reached extensive agreement in the run-up .
my group believes the commission should check if prima facie evidence and circumstantial evidence can also be taken into account at all levels at which evidence is taken .
however , it is not only these individual points which are important ; we also need to seize every opportunity to harmonise product liability still further in the form of comprehensive consumer protection in the european union .
if we supplement the maccormick report in this direction , the european parliament will have done a good job in the eyes of the consumer .
mr president , i would like to welcome what is a very well considered report , which invites us to stand back and take stock before embarking on further legislation in this field - a refreshing welcome from the tendency of this house sometimes to rush , or to be pushed to rush , at complex legislation .
in our enthusiasm we sometimes forget what a sensitive subject the harmonisation of private law is ; it touches the national legal traditions in our member states , legal traditions born of our differing histories and cultures of separate nations and jurisdictions .
the traditional push towards harmonisation has been the internal market to which we can now add the aspirations of tampere for a single area of european justice .
but harmonisation must respect subsidiarity - we have no need to rush towards uniformity of civil law in this area of product liability .
i would argue quite strongly that we have achieved a very fair and reasonable balance of interests .
if our regulations on product liability stifle competitiveness and innovation , i suggest that consumers will be at a major disadvantage as well .
so let me echo mr maccormick : there is a need for much more clearly-based factual evidence before we make changes to this legislation .
this green paper represents a first step towards this review .
the second principle consists of removing the burden of proof from the party that has suffered the damage .
the third principle concerns setting levels of compensation .
the directive does provide for this eventuality , but we must bear in mind the fact that judicial bodies are used to seeing this setting of compensation as interference by legislative authority in its duties and this issue must therefore also be reviewed .
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur , mr maccormick , for the report he has produced and the work he has done .
at the time , the commission put forward a proposal to the effect that the principle of risk liability for defective products , which is provided for in directive 85 / 374 , should also be applied to primary agricultural products and products of hunting .
on 29 july last year , the commission gave its blessing to the current green paper on liability for defective products .
in an important section of the green paper , all interested parties are invited to make a firm case for their stance on the need for revision .
in any case , it is clear that these subjects will all need to be addressed in a report that the commission intends to compile towards the end of this year .
i undertake to do so on behalf of the commission , but this must be in concert with parliament of course , and with the other interested parties , because as an entity , the commission is , of course , dependent on the views expressed by society and by this house .
the debate is closed .
i think we must place this report , and also the directive which is in the pipeline , in the context of the european union ' s energy policy with its three objectives of competitive pricing , security of supply and environmental protection .
since 29 february 2000 , we have had a common electricity market but , regrettably , still with considerable distortions of competition which still , unfortunately , work to the disadvantage of both renewable energy cogeneration and energy management and the forms of energy of the future .
the directive which is currently being prepared should , in my opinion , have two objectives .
firstly , the current imperfect market must be adjusted as necessary in order to protect the still tender shoots of the plant which is renewable energy , and also to lay the foundations for renewable energies so that they head in the direction that they need to before the year 2030 or 2040 , when they must be capable of providing the greater part of the european community energy mix .
we have many reasons to move in this direction .
firstly , the protection of the environment , but also the creation of jobs .
it must have ambitious , clearly defined objectives at european level in the order of those given in the commission white paper , i.e. 12 % for energy and 23 % for electricity .
after setting these objectives at the european level , there must be ' burden sharing ' negotiations between the commission and the member states in order for reciprocal agreement to be reached on the specific national objectives which , when added together , will combine to form the european objective .
on the other hand , there are the trading systems which have just been created in the netherlands and denmark , where there are still many administrative and technical problems to resolve .
there is one last point which i wish to put forward , namely the need for a system for labelling and providing information on all forms of electricity .
in an internal market , the consumer should be informed , and this information should be provided for every form of energy , not just green electricity .
fourthly , we must bear in mind that sources of fossil fuels have been accompanied recently by price fluctuations ranging from 10 to 30 dollars a barrel .
mr president , madam vice-president , ladies and gentlemen , parliament has basically been in agreement on this question since 1996 .
for example , elevating the feed-in system to a universal panacea is wrong .
we here in the european union cannot impose mandatory obligations on the member states .
mr president , i would like to reiterate the thanks to the rapporteur for the extremely cooperative manner in which he has embarked upon this important report and i am pleased to participate in the intimate gathering of renewable fanatics so late at night .
that requires , above and beyond everything else , downward pressure on the unacceptably high and legally dubious levels of subsidies which continue to flow to fossil energy sources in the european union , notably , but not excusably , the coal industry in a number of large member states .
we cannot be serious about this without trying to add teeth in some form , moral , financial or otherwise to the concept of targets .
paragraph 22 of this report calls for the establishment of a european sustainable energy agency .
this parliament and the european institutions have been spawning a blizzard of new agencies all over the european union .
mr president , i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his hard work and particularly the excellent definition of renewables .
the directive , as some of the speakers have already said , needs to have binding targets in order for the member states and the entire eu to achieve a significant increase in the share of renewable energies in the total energy market .
the directive should also contain mechanisms to discourage , as we have already heard , the member states from their market distorting subsidies to traditional forms of energy , particularly fossil fuels and nuclear .
the directive should explicitly propose a system of support and advantages for the small and medium-sized companies in decentralised production and distribution of renewable energies .
finally , i would urge that it is important that some of the undertakings by member states to include renewables in the energy mix in the electricity sector be at least equal to the total eu commitment made in the white paper on renewable energy , as endorsed by the council and this parliament .
if we are serious about this , we must be prepared to make funds available for research and development in this area , both at national and european levels .
the creation of an internal market in electricity should provide consumers of electricity with real choice .
the introduction of an element of competition in any industry should lead to more favourable pricing for the consumer .
while it is desirable to create a level playing field it may also be necessary to provide subsidies for certain types of energy in order to promote other objectives .
clearly the development of renewables is linked to environmental objectives as well as issues of employment , regional development and the promotion of local initiatives .
i would like to see the development of small local initiatives which would strengthen rural development by the provision of , say , 20 to 30 jobs per project .
such projects should not only be open to the business sector and local groups such as small locally-based co-ops should be assisted in creating such local enterprises .
this report states that support for renewable energy projects must not be viewed as a straightforward subsidy under the state aid rules .
it is clear that there are serious distortions in the energy market with many hidden subsidies to both coal and oil generated energy .
we still face a significant challenge in meeting our commitments on limiting greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector under the kyoto protocol while , at the same time , promoting growth within our economies .
i believe that , while each member state must work towards the 12 % target of renewables , the imposition of a single binding target would not be helpful because of the great differences in the structure of the energy market between member states .
peat power plants work very well indeed in my country and make an important contribution to ireland ' s energy supply .
therefore , i regret to say that my final vote on this project will be seriously affected .
mr president , the need to promote the development of sources of renewable energy becomes a crucial matter every time that issues such as the kyoto protocol and meeting our commitments to reducing greenhouse gas emissions are raised or when we talk about sustainability in energy policy .
secondly , any support mechanism that is considered must be realistic and consistent , but must , above all , fit into a stable and appropriate legal framework if it is to achieve the desired effect .
in order for any action related to the development of new projects for investment in these technologies to be launched , it will require a legal basis which will ensure that the laws on which it is based are transparent .
its content provides the necessary balance for us to be able to rate it positively , but our final position will depend on the outcome with regard to certain key points .
mr president , i have an interest , though not a financial one , in this subject in that i am chairman of the northern energy initiative , a company which operates in the north-east of england , and has within it a renewable energy agency whose objective is to promote the development of renewable energies .
it is important to have eu and national targets , but it is also important to have a european directive which will support efforts at local and regional level , where many of the decisions are actually taken .
support for demonstration projects should be included in any directive .
the report does contain many good ideas .
mr president , i would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on being open to dialogue on all areas connected to the report and to the amendments .
i would finally like to mention the establishment of an appropriate legal framework for this kind of energy , which would foster its rapid development , bearing in mind that , in the long term , renewables must become predominant .
i also think that research and development in this area need greater support .
i think that this management system is particularly significant for the future of energy supplies in europe .
i would like to remind you that in april last year the commission approved a working paper on electricity from renewable sources , whose main objective was to present a thorough overview of the support programmes of the different member states in the field of renewable energies , as well as to highlight certain conclusions and possible options for the adoption of community measures in this area .
in this respect , parliament ' s contribution is an extremely important element in this process .
this house has always been forthright in its support for active policies designed to promote renewable energies .
some aspects are more open to debate , but they also deserve thorough study , even if they must be rejected , in some cases because they are not sufficiently based on fact or because the problems they present are greater than the solutions they propose .
i agree with mr turmes on the need to protect the different national systems in force at the time that this directive is adopted .
this is what we will do , which does not mean that , in five years time , there should not be a review of the different systems and that we should not commit ourselves to those which have proved to be the most effective and which have resulted in greater development of renewable energies in those countries .
in any event , as you know , on 2 december 1999 , in the energy council , i gave a questionnaire to the member states , so i could see what stage we had reached , what stage the issue had reached , and so i could present a directive that could obtain sufficient consensus to quickly conclude its passage through both parliament and the council .
the result of this questionnaire , which has been studied by the services , is a document , in my opinion , of extremely high quality , which i hope will enable us to get through the parliamentary and council procedures reasonably quickly .
my personal view - although there are other ideas on this subject - is that , as things stand , we cannot write off other energies , for reasons of competitiveness and growth .
in this respect , we must be able to ensure that those who do commit themselves to renewables have a fair return on their investments .
we obviously have to create a stable framework that will enable investors to make investments which require a sufficient number of years to cover their repayment .
mr president , i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the speakers , and to assure them that this element of stability , which will enable decisions relating to medium-term investments to be taken , will also feature in the proposal for a directive that i hope to be able to present to you soon .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. ( the sitting was closed at 11.10 p.m. )
i want to stress two points .
on the contrary , i have stated time and again in this house that enlargement is an historic necessity .
thank you , mr berthu .
i think it would be very welcome if you , as president of the european parliament , were to approach the turkish government , in whatever way you consider appropriate , and ask for this man of honour to be freed .
the " echelon " system the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the existence of an artificial intelligence system allowing the united states of america to intercept and monitor all telephone and electronic communications within the european union , a system called ' echelon ' .
the european union must respect the fundamental rights which are guaranteed by the european convention on human rights and which result from the common constitutional traditions of the member states on general principles of community law .
this is why the council presidency wants to firmly state its position on the possible existence of a system for intercepting telecommunications in the european union , beyond the bounds of any legal framework .
in 1999 , the council submitted an initiative on the lawful interception of telecommunications with regard to new technologies for assessment .
in its meeting on 28 may 1998 , the council adopted conclusions on encryption and law enforcement to guarantee the integrity and confidentiality of digital communications which present considerable advantages for electronic commerce and the private lives of individuals and which can also help to prevent fraud and other crimes .
in the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters , particular attention should be paid to the draft convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the member states .
the justice and home affairs council , in its meeting on 27 march , examined the most important remaining questions , including those on the interception of telecommunications .
therefore , any supervision of data protection is carried out in the member state of origin with full respect for the council of europe convention of january 1981 and the recommendation of the committee of ministers of the council of europe of september 1987 .
so it is the responsibility of each member state to correct , delete or amend data sent to europol where it becomes apparent that this data is incorrect or infringes the rules established in this respect .
the member states and the commission are examining this issue in order to determine to what extent data protection should be provided in a horizontal perspective for the whole of the third pillar .
this , briefly , is the council ' s position on the work in progress or already concluded in the area of the lawful interception of telecommunications .
the presidency wishes to stress that it is ready to closely monitor parliament ' s work in this area as it considers that there is every reason not to compromise when principles of freedom , democracy and respect for human rights and the fundamental freedoms of individuals are at stake .
respect for human rights and the rule of law constitute the foundations of the european union .
national security questions belong to the exclusive competence of the member states .
electronic communications play an increasingly important role in everyday life of european citizens .
a key tool to secure the confidentiality of electronic communications is encryption or cryptography .
when the european parliament considered the issue of interception of telecommunications in 1998 , its resolution underlined the importance of encryption .
the european research efforts and relatively open access to markets have created conditions that have enabled european enterprises to develop a world-class expertise and high-quality encryption products .
it is worth noting that the united states government has recently taken steps to relax its export controls regime for encryption products .
for external trade , the wassenaar arrangement imposes export controls on strong encryption products .
the commission recognises the need to balance availability of encryption products with concerns of public security and the fight against crime .
the commission considers that enhancing the security of communications over the internet by using encryption is a priority .
the data protection directive of 24 october 1995 requires member states to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons and in particular their right to privacy with respect to the processing of personal data .
the data protection directive is complemented by the directive for data protection and privacy in the telecommunications sector .
this wording of the directive reflects the wording of article 8 of the european convention on human rights .
as regards the general data protection directive , the commission has launched infringement procedures against six member states .
further , the letter states that the european commission of human rights has held that the system set out under british law is in conformity with the european convention on human rights .
the uk legislation also foresees a special parliamentary oversight committee .
the commission has also sought clarification from the united states government .
madam president , first of all , i am delighted that the council and the commission have delivered a clear opinion today regarding the echelon problem .
in addition to frank words with our american and british friends , we need a european encryption system , independent of the united states , with which to protect our data .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , we are in a difficult situation regarding the decision which we now have to make after hearing the council and the commission .
because if that was to be the case - and i agree with the commissioner here - then of course this would be in flagrant contravention of the excellent alliance and trade relations that europe has with america .
nevertheless , the eldr group believes that this matter must be taken seriously .
because if it is true , then citizens ' rights may be violated too .
in any case , the eldr group wants to extend existing european legislation governing data protection to the sphere of judicial and police cooperation .
we also feel that the national parliaments in the european union , as well as the united states congress in washington , should become involved in this matter .
we have since discovered that this system does exist , but we do not know exactly how it works .
especially when we know that certain member states are probably collaborating in order to by-pass them .
otherwise the network should be closed down , and we are in favour of the parliamentary committee of inquiry called for by several groups in the european parliament , including the union for a europe of nations group .
madam president , the new economy has equipped us with a worldwide communication network .
the right of individuals to privacy must not be contravened at the drop of a hat .
madam president , so the country of the statue of liberty , jefferson , lincoln , and human rights is listening in on all world communications by cable , satellite , telephone , fax , e-mail or mobile phone !
i have several questions to put to the council and the commission and if they do not wish to answer them today , then i would ask them to do so in writing in the very near future .
it emerged during the hearing that two companies have reported missing out on orders on account of industrial espionage .
my third question relates to article 3 .
as a uk member of this parliament i understand other members ' concerns .
the commissioner has spoken of work on cryptography , which was also mentioned in parliament ' s last recommendation .
therefore , at the next justice and home affairs council on 29 to 30 may , the portuguese presidency will ensure that the council debates this issue so that we can adopt a position .
for that reason we contacted the united states government and asked for clarification and what i said here was their reply to that very issue .
after the granting of this patent , a number of concerns have been raised , both here in parliament and also by organisations such as greenpeace , about the true scope of this patent .
the european patent office has issued a press statement to that effect .
the motion before you calls on parliament itself and the other institutions of the european union formally to oppose this patent within the 9-month period during which an opposition is allowed under the rules governing the granting of european patents .
however , if the european patent office follows its usual rules for oppositions then this is unlikely to bring any changes to this patent before december 2000 and perhaps even later than that .
i have therefore written to the european patent office in munich requesting that it should explore every possibility to bring about a speedier resolution of this issue .
the event shows how important it was for the european parliament , in debating the directive on the patenting of biotechnological inventions , to have made it a cornerstone of the directive that there can be no question of patenting techniques for cloning human beings and for manipulating human genetic material , still less of patenting the human being in all phases of his development .
the european patent office has incorporated the european union ' s directive into its own directives .
then , there was a press statement from europabio , which was not very helpful in this regard and , following which , i wrote a letter to the chairman of europabio pointing out that such an ambivalent position on the patent involved was not at all helpful in furthering people ' s understanding of biotechnology .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , european patent no ep 69 53 51 , granted by the european parliament and concerning the genetic manipulation of human cells and human embryos has triggered understandable feelings of horror among the public .
in this way , the european parliament is confronted with a special task requiring the preparation of an annual report on the work of the european group on ethics in science and new technologies .
finally , it must be made unequivocally clear once and for all that our directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions excludes not only the patentability of the human being , of parts of the human genetic make-up and of interference with the genome , but also forbids the cloning of human beings at all phases of their development .
mr president , commissioner , the european parliament is right to be concerned , and this is surely an understatement , by the fact that the european patent office has granted a patent to the university of edinburgh .
however , the european parliament has already clearly formulated its position on this delicate matter .
the outcome is a balanced text that affords science the opportunity to make progress , but in the interests and service of humanity .
a number of items are unequivocally excluded from patenting in this directive , such as the human body , for example , or parts thereof at all stages of development , as per article 3 , and the cloning of human beings , as per article 9 .
it is for these reasons that not only will the eldr group endorse the motion , it will also support amendments nos 1 , 3 , 6 , 8 and 9 , because they clearly reinforce the message conveyed by the directive in question .
this also means , however , that we need to investigate the patenting of parts of the human genetic make-up and of genes themselves , which is also made possible by the directive on patenting .
i would also have expected more from the commission today in terms of more criticism and also of more questions about the background to the directive on patenting which also virtually legitimises past practice on the part of the patent office .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , our group supports the joint resolution on the offending decision by the european patent office .
but the english wording of the patent undermines that explanation because article 11 explicitly mentions that the term ' animal ' includes all animal cells , especially of mammalian species , including human cells .
each person is unique ; there is something sacred in each human being .
the commission takes the view that had the directive on patenting biotechnological inventions been transposed in good time , this error could have been avoided .
the european group of ethics must also investigate if it actually affords human dignity adequate protection .
the council should give the commission the mandate to do this .
they have no interest in cloning humans : rather what they are interested in is being able to work on human tissue to help find remedies for , for example , alzheimer ' s disease and leukaemia and what they are doing breaks no law in the united kingdom .
as i have said earlier this morning , i wrote a letter on behalf of the commission to the european patent office .
mr blokland has said that the directive is unclear and inconsistent and certainly the commission will be very interested in a substantiated view of that statement .
the last issue i should like to deal with is the matter of the community patent .
mr bolkestein , i am very sorry if you have not been listening very carefully or if the translation was not very precise , but i have not put forward a demand that cloning should be prohibited .
it was the intention of the european people ' s party not to open a new debate but merely to re-confirm what parliament had already decided recently , for example in the context of the fifth framework programme on research or in that of the tannert report on the specific framework programme on research .
there are approximately 120 million elderly people in europe , most of whom receive a pension , although there are a few , less fortunate people who do not , but these guidelines make no provision whatsoever for a european union policy for pensioners and the elderly .
instead , " the social and cultural dimension of europe " is chosen as the most important point to be taken up in the guidelines for the 2001 budget .
our group likewise condemns the desire expressed by the alliance of the large socialist , christian democrat and conservative groups in the european parliament to use agriculture , the appropriations under heading 1 of the financial perspective , as a source of financing for areas now falling within the remit of european union ' foreign policy ' .
in fact everyone now agrees in acknowledging that the eur 360 million sought for kosovo for the year 2000 represents a sum , a godsend for some people , that this region of former yugoslavia , with ever-growing centrifugal forces at work , is in no position to assimilate .
the union for a europe of nations group is equally opposed , out of concern for consistency , to any annual financing of the eur 5.5 billion sought for the balkans by increasing the ceiling on external expenditure by europe and lowering the ceilings for the agricultural headings , on the deceitful pretext that the appropriations would not be taken from agriculture , but that it would be appropriate to release margins for 2001 and 2002 .
it should be remembered here that , in 2003 , the mid-term analysis planned at the berlin summit in the context of agenda 2000 will be known .
the civil aviation industry is experiencing annual growth of some 6 % and this is expected to double in 10 years !
this has to be accompanied by a progressive reduction in noise ascribable to aircraft .
stricter rules on aircraft noise must be established at international level , within the icao .
the united states ' position on the regulation is ambiguous ; in fact , although the united states government is in favour of ending the litigation , american manufacturers are totally against the standards set out in the regulation which would penalise them .
in conclusion , the european union must do everything possible to encourage the development of that regional integration which , in the long term , will maintain privileged links , still to be defined , with the european union .
in fact , the latter must take action to achieve a cultural , social and human partnership .
the european union must provide compensation for the crucial difficulties in this sector , notably as regards fruit and vegetables , and wine-growing .
hernandez mollar report ( a5-0057 / 2000 ) mr president , the action plans on asylum and migration , focusing on the problems encountered by the countries of origin and transit of asylum seekers and migrants , seem to us an excellent initiative in principle .
so the action plans aim to draw up a list of problems for each target country , whether they be related to the political institutions , human rights , the economy or the government , and propose an integrated approach to the countries of the union and to third countries , combining development aid , legal measures or foreign policy actions .
mr president , i voted against the hernandez mollar report on asylum seekers and migrants , not because i am opposed to an action plan for receiving and supporting those who are less fortunate than ourselves and who are forced to emigrate and request asylum from countries near or far - for i am strongly in favour of such a measure - but because this report does not place sufficient emphasis on the procedures for distinguishing between genuine and false asylum seekers , for the latter are , sadly , nothing but disruptive elements who damage those who have a genuine , practical need for asylum and assistance , and who must therefore receive it .
i abstained on the final vote on this report on the basis of my speech on wednesday evening .
i am not in any way against the intentions or sentiments of the report but solely in respect of the action plan on sri lanka .
i believe that it is inadequate and that there is far too little attention paid to the need to seek a political solution in sri lanka .
and what price the subtle distinctions in the report between ' immigration ' and ' asylum proper ' , when social reality means that a surreal economic organisation condemns millions of people to torture or death by hunger as surely as in dictators ' dungeons ?
europe is drawing up plans and developing measures , 108 to be precise , with unspecified funding of course .
italy , for example , will lose 17 million people from the workforce between now and 2050 , and you are happy to conclude , along with the un population division , that 159 million non-europeans will have to be imported between now and 2050 .
klamt report ( a5-0052 / 2000 ) mr president , we have naturally supported mrs klamt ' s report because of our desire and our duty to protect our children and everyone else in an extremely vulnerable position .
the report is also a good text in that respect .
the klamt report is perhaps not sufficiently ambitious , but at least it has the merit of going in the right direction .
mr president , i voted for the klamt report , not only because i am in favour of any measure which contributes to eliminating child sex tourism , but also because i want to provide encouragement for more to be done .
the european commission has drawn up a report of the measures which have been taken in this field .
in view of the results , it is clear that the european union and its member states must increase their efforts to combat sex tourism and the exploitation of children .
the fact is , when people are in a foreign country , in an unfamiliar region , they can act in complete anonymity and convince themselves that child abuse is less reprehensible in a different social and cultural context , and that the moral principles in force in their own country do not apply .
this is why parliament calls on the commission to assess the link between child pornography on the internet and the growth in sex tourism , and to propose practical measures against the phenomenon !
in fact , this comes down to accepting the phenomenon of child sex tourism , on the pretext that the social and cultural context is different in countries where it is not unusual to work as a little slave from the age of five .
mrs klamt has presented a good report today .
the dignity of the individual , of the weakest in particular and of all in general , must be our guideline , in this area as in any other . - i wholeheartedly support ewa klamt ' s report on the fight against child exploitation .
mr president , i am not calling for a nanny-state approach , but simply that , in a civilised society , we recognise the right of children to their childhood .
turmes report ( a5-0078 / 2000 ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , environmental protection is a prestigious field of politics , and rightly so .
resolution on the cloning of human beings mr president , we agreed with many points in the motion for a resolution , for example with the proposal that the european parliament should submit a complaint to the patent office , but also with the criticism of the structures of the european patent office .
our vote against human cloning is primarily intended to express our lack of confidence in the present economic and social organisation , certainly not our rejection of science and its possibilities .
we are not in principle opposed to intervention in the human germline for people who want to have children without risking malformation , any more than we are opposed to cloning with a view to developing human tissues intended for grafting .
this is what the edinburgh research is about . - ( sv ) on 8 december 1999 , the european patent office approved ' by mistake ' patent no ep 69 53 51 concerning the genetic manipulation of human cells and embryos .
the patent office has acknowledged a ' linguistic ' mistake which does not seem to be entirely corroborated by article 11 of the description of the intervention .
a mistake like that becomes symbolic , a sort of freudian slip , and it has impelled us today to hold this fundamental debate on cloning , certainly , but above all on whether the living organism should be patented .
categories of ' forbidden knowledge ' must certainly be created but without making the mistake of those who condemned copernicus , harvey ( the heart is not the repository of the soul , but a large organ ) , or jenner ( the smallpox vaccine ) .
resumption of the session i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 30 march 2000 .
nothing has been done although there was an instant reaction from the commission when the fact that 12 million people are under threat of famine in ethiopia came to public attention .
i have been in this house since 1984 , and rarely have i seen such neglect - such wilful neglect - by the european union in dealing with a famine of this kind that we knew was on our doorstep .
it is a great shame that every time an issue like this is raised with commissioner nielson , or raised with the commission , he passes it off as if it did not matter - as if he did not believe this was happening .
commissioner nielson must come to this house and explain his use of pr men and spin doctors in this disgraceful display of neglect .
mr andrews , there is of course no need to start a debate on the subject .
i should just like to point out that in a few moments the house will be voting on whether to add another item to the ' human rights ' section and one of the proposals made by two groups is specifically to do with the problem of the famine in ethiopia .
madam president , as many of us know , last friday saw the inauguration in vienna of the monitoring centre for racism , xenophobia and antisemitism .
some members of staff of the european parliament both here and in brussels , when they try to enforce european parliament rules - in other words , no smoking in no-smoking areas or any of the other european parliament rules - are sworn at and abused by some members of parliament .
thank you , mr seppanen .
madam president , at least three times i went searching for our finnish colleague to assure him , as i was assured in the last plenary part-session , that he would be handed a card that would enable him to not just hear , but to see finnish television in parliament .
in the college of quaestors we have also discussed - because we too are concerned - robberies that are taking place within parliament .
thank you , mrs banotti .
our plans , therefore , remain unchanged , and this means that if , on friday , the necessary 209 members are not present , then the vote will not take place .
thank you , mr miller .
mr van velzen , you will have the opportunity to make your comments in just a moment , as we are about to move on to the agenda .
agenda the next item is the examination of the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the conference of presidents pursuant to rule 110 of the rules of procedure .
sittings in strasbourg from 10 to 14 april 2000 : relating to tuesday : the council has informed us that it did not wish to make a statement on iraq at the present time .
this being the case , i had a request from the group of the party of european socialists to bring forward the council and commission statements on the turkish situation , which are currently scheduled for wednesday 12 april .
mr van velzen , the council is indeed in attendance on wednesday , i am assured .
we shall then be able to withdraw our proposal under item i .
in other words , mr haarder , you would like us to move directly to the proposal to replace item iv ' world forum on education ' with an item on ' iraq ' , which you tabled in case your first proposal was not adopted .
madam president , i should be glad if we could vote on item iv before i decide about that .
madam president , since we now have ethiopia , which we wanted to add , elsewhere on the agenda , i would like to ask the mover of the motion whether he would agree to adding zimbabwe as a fifth point .
i then received five proposals to add a fifth sub-item to the ' human rights ' section .
madam president , i would like to be clear that if we have agreed that zimbabwe would be the fifth point then there is no point in voting in any other points because we already have five points on the agenda .
mr elles , first of all , i am going to suggest that we enter zimbabwe as the fifth sub-item in the ' human rights ' section , since i believe that is in line with what we have just agreed .
madam president , i would like to speak in favour of adopting a resolution in connection with the oral question to the commission on the consequences of last december ' s storms .
do you mean after the oral question on the storms ?
madam president , in 1996 i had the great honour of representing the uk government at the world congress , which was held in stockholm , sweden , under united nations auspices , on the subject of the sexual exploitation of children .
in our report we have entered a definition which we hope will be acceptable internationally .
we can only deal with this matter if we deal with it in an international fashion .
we are faced with a difficult task , not only in regard to the definition which we have decided to offer , but also because so many countries have different attitudes as to what , for instance , is a child .
i wish to offer my thanks , as rapporteur , to all those who have been concerned , not only on my own committee - the committee on citizen 's freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs - but also on the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and on the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport as well .
in my own committee this report was adopted with 27 votes in favour and one abstention .
the initiative of the republic of austria with a view to adopting a council decision to combat child pornography on the internet will place an obligation on the member states , and obligation is the crucial word here , to take measures to combat child pornography on the internet .
parents are powerless in the face of this phenomenon because they cannot keep up with this technological progress .
we must not , therefore , simply act in a preventative fashion ; we must offer long-term help to those children affected . - ( pt ) madam president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the need has grown over the last ten years for a policy for children , based on the 1989 united nations convention on the rights of the child , which has been ratified by all member states .
the attention that has been paid to this issue has increased considerably in all member states .
the evolution of the internet , its incredibly rapid development and its importance today raise the question of its use for these reprehensible purposes .
the problem of crime on the internet cannot be resolved by any state in isolation .
i would like to congratulate mr kirkhope on his report .
all the proposed measures are suitable and necessary to effectively combat child pornography .
the existence of these networks confirms the need for a common judicial area .
the common judicial area does exist with europol , schengen and eurodac .
for all these reasons i think the european union must make combating this form of crime a priority .
the legitimately and ultimately repressive message of this report will only be heard and be useful if , at the same time , we clearly reassert the basis of a life-enhancing culture , a culture which respects life , applicable to all people in all places , and if , at member state and union level , we provide the practical resources necessary to achieve this .
the first phenomenon is the boom in pornography in general , and the second is , obviously , the exploitation of children for sexual purposes .
the internet , minitel , the post are nothing more than the medium .
this matter has preoccupied us for a long time , too long in my opinion .
however , i share the view of the committee on culture , youth , education , the media and sport that we should have fixed the age limit at 18 and i hope that the initiatives will lead to the highest possible age limit being set in all member states .
finally , i would like to express my satisfaction that the member states of the eu are so resolutely and actively supporting this austrian proposal and not just taking refuge in soundbites and cliches .
my fourth point is that the register of persons who have been convicted of the distribution of child pornography or of the sexual abuse of children will hopefully be implemented across europe as quickly as possible and that access will be available to all member states and europol .
i would also like to appeal to the member states , in the interests of the most vulnerable members of society , to implement as quickly and efficiently as possible the measures proposed by the rapporteur in his excellent report and by the austrian initiative .
as has already been stressed , the aim is to intensify actions to prevent and combat the sexual abuse of children , with particular reference to the production , possession and distribution of child pornography through the internet .
the austrian initiative to reintroduce the draft joint action to combat child pornography on the internet , on which parliament has already delivered a favourable opinion , is welcomed by the commission .
the commission has been closely involved in international activities and initiatives addressing this issue , such as the international conference on combating child pornography on the internet , which was held from 29 september to 1 october 1999 in vienna .
the commission has long been concerned about child pornography on the net .
the council and parliament adopted it on 25 january 1999 .
it is also involved in the current negotiations on a draft convention on cyber crime in the framework of the council of europe that will address the specific problem of paedo-pornography on the internet .
the commission fully supports the position expressed in the draft report that the subject of child pornography on the internet should involve the approximation of the laws and regulations of the member states .
the commission will participate fully in the discussions that will take place in the council with a view to adopting this draft decision in order to see whether further action should and would be needed .
the debate is closed .
but encounters between people from different cultures are not always simple , and they should therefore be helped along , just as refugees should be given support to begin new lives in their new locations .
the european refugee fund is a first and very modest attempt to distribute resources in proportion to the tasks which individual member states promise to undertake .
we are talking about eur 26 million to cover the fixed expenses of the current work , distributed among 15 member states .
all in all , however , the european refugee fund is , in fact , to be regarded as a start .
the commission is obviously on the right track .
however , the committee on budgets is raising two objections .
the second objection is more extensive .
asylum-seekers are not a burden but a responsibility .
a proposed amendment from our committee requires that all measures under this fund should be based on an approach designed to prevent any outbreak of xenophobia , racism , discrimination or inequality .
not to take such an approach would be short-sighted , as others have already pointed out .
needless to say , the values will depend on the influx of asylum seekers in each country , the number of people granted refugee status , obviously in accordance with the geneva convention , and the number of displaced persons received .
in this respect , amendment no 19 deals with refugees , while amendment no 21 focuses on displaced persons .
the fund should help to balance up the differences between member states in the acceptance and integration of persons in need of protection .
they campaigned against denmark ' s joining the single currency , which we are to vote on in september , and they have been on the " no " side in four out of the five previous danish referenda .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , it is with great relief that we welcomed the proposed council decision on the creation of a european refugee fund .
the report shows the extent to which parliamentary activity can be beneficial to europe .
finally , in conclusion , i should like once again to stress the ever more insistent need for member states to arrive quickly at common legislation in matters of asylum .
mr president , allow me first of all to emphasise that , in the referendum on the edinburgh agreement in 1993 , the danish people declined to participate in eu cooperation on legal issues , and denmark is not , therefore , bound by any legal obligations to allow the eu to decide which refugees are to be received by denmark .
and one cannot in all decency receive money from the eu if one will not also allow the eu to decide which refugees are to be allocated to which countries .
since 1997 , we have been trying to carry out coherent work in this respect , and we have had some successes .
however , in order to be fully successful , we need a legal basis to ensure the continuity of the work on improving the reception , the integration , or , where they wish it , the satisfactory return of the asylum seekers and refugees present in the european union .
those are three different areas of work .
the member states have a major role to play in this respect and must make considerable efforts .
however , as she herself did , i would like to point out a few problems which , in our opinion , are still important and which need to be remedied .
in practice , the countries which take in the greatest number of refugees will probably receive the most funds .
the proposal is to establish a permanent european fund distributing appropriations to assist member states in managing their countries ' usual flow of refugees , genuine or not .
in such conditions , the risk of things spiralling out of control and of financial abuse is very great indeed , mr president , and the report itself even implies as much when it states that the planned appropriations , even though they still amount to eur 36 million , are much less than the potential demand .
the union for a europe of nations group considers that there is just one solution if we want to halt this risk : for each member state to retain financial responsibility for the reception of refugees , and for european solidarity to be kept only for exceptional tragic circumstances . - ( pt ) mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , many of us have repeatedly called for the european refugee fund to be established .
what must in one case be met with policies of support for integration must , in others , in the interests of the refugees themselves , be met with policies of support for a return to the country or region which they were forced to flee .
you know better than i do that the proposed council decision on this fund was adopted by the commission on 14 december 1999 .
the fund is a single instrument combining support for member state actions on the reception , integration and voluntary repatriation of refugees and displaced persons , which were previously dealt with in joint actions and pilot projects on the basis of appropriations allocated annually to the community budget on the initiative of the european parliament .
i think that adopting this fund contribute to showing that , in this area , the european union as such can provide added value for the efforts of each individual member state .
the commission has already pointed out to the parliament ' s committee on budgets that it intends to propose , in its preliminary draft budget for 2001 , the financial means to maintain the fund for the next five years .
in other words , the commission will propose increasing the eur 36 million for the year 2000 to eur 45 million for the following years , thus taking the overall allocation for the five years to eur 216 million .
the european refugee fund will be able to cofinance member state actions up to 50 % , a level which can be increased to 75 % for member states benefiting from the cohesion fund .
together with my fellow commissioner , michaele schreyer , i have already initiated discussions on the ways of utilising , in the event of an emergency , the maximum possible resources suited to the needs of the situation .
in this area , however , what worries me more than the figures - because , unfortunately or fortunately , the necessary funds cannot be provided to respond to emergencies such as kosovo - and what we are looking for is some financial and also administrative mechanism sufficiently perfected to fulfil needs efficiently in an emergency situation .
as regards amendments , the commission has taken note of all the proposed amendments and can accept , conditional upon some formal reworking , in some cases , the principles behind a number of them which aim to make the objectives of the european refugee fund clearer in the introduction , or to make some terms more precise .
one particular case is the mention , in the introduction , of the importance of ngo activities , and there are some useful clarifications , such as transparency in the project selection process , or the need to promote the long-term continuity of projects .
in this decision it is important to avoid anything which might add to their workload and slow the process down , without allowing for the fact that the amounts involved are not vast and that if this decision for the year 2000 is adopted this year , that will not leave much time to prepare cofinancing requests .
the commission proposes to take on board some of the ideas put forward in the amendments in terms of defining the practical arrangements for the implementation of this instrument and for the dialogue to be entered into with the relevant national bodies .
the fund is intended to contribute to balancing member state efforts .
in conclusion , mr president , the commission is delighted to see the european parliament support this initiative .
thank you very much , mr vitorino .
the debate is closed .
i am very aware of the fact that any amendments to the council common position are likely to carry a real risk that the directive will be lost in conciliation , since the directive was , and continues to be , a very delicate compromise .
so the question for us as members of the european parliament is whether the proposed amendments are absolutely necessary compared to the potential risk that we do not get the supervisory framework at all .
amendments nos 1 and 2 add the words " at par value " to the report .
these additional words are not absolutely necessary as article 3 sets out the terms for redeemability .
in this latter case the additional words would add nothing and be misleading to the consumer .
adding the words " at par value " to article 3 ( 1 ) may mislead the consumer since it is always possible to deduct the charges that are strictly necessary to carry out that operation .
according to the common position member states may allow their competent authorities to waive the application of some or all of the provisions of the proposed directive .
the waiver is possible in cases where the total amount of e-money issued is limited and where the e-money issued is accepted as a means of payments by only a limited number of undertakings .
for example , the waiver could be used for university campus payment cards or for local transport systems .
the council was able to agree its common position only because it felt that a directive , which included a waiver but tightened regulation and permitted competition in a single market , was better than no directive at all .
should the recommendation be adopted here without any amendments , i would ask that the commission and the council make use of what is in the directive and submit to parliament a brief report on the consequences of the directives with any amendments which might be necessary .
mr president , electronic money does not yet have the same importance in the european union as e-commerce , e-business , e-europe .
i think that electronic money will gain in importance , not just in commerce but also for consumers , particularly as the safety precautions on the internet are regarded as inadequate and many are therefore hesitant to choose this option .
it is , of course , also important to consider the role of the european central bank - controlling the amount of money in circulation , for example .
for this reason i cannot support the new wording of article 8c .
i think that we must do everything possible to increase consumer confidence in the electronic money age and not to build consumer foundations which have no stability .
mr president , it is very regrettable that this common position , which has been put together with such care by the council and which paid due respect to the parliament 's views at first reading , is now in the process of unravelling .
the concerns , particularly about the waiver , are misguided precisely because it would be very limited : it would be limited to only eur 150 on any particular card .
therefore , in the years before the ecb took charge of euro-zone monetary policy , the bundesbank itself was not able to respect the growth of its money supply targets .
that is very regrettable .
there are a lot of safeguards that the commission has put in here that the council has carefully discussed and i very much hope that we will fully support the council common position on this matter .
mr president , as from january 1999 , the euro has been the new currency for most of the european union .
the conclusion of that survey clearly demonstrated that costs for consumers of transferring money from one country to another in europe are still too high .
i do not think that it will be helped by the amendments being proposed inside this parliament today and indeed in our committee .
may i also express the appreciation of the european commission for the continuing support from this parliament for the e-money initiative and , indeed , for all the commission 's e-commerce initiatives .
the commission has noticed the high level of cooperation between parliament , council and commission in reaching an early agreement on the e-money proposals .
the provision on redeemability , which was proposed by this parliament at the first reading - a first reading which took place almost a year ago - and was accepted by the council , is clear .
on this basis , and for this reason , i cannot regrettably accept the first two amendments .
amendments nos 3 and 4 propose substantially to limit the circumstances in which member states may waive the application of some or all of the provisions of the directive to certain limited electronic money schemes ; here i am concerned because of a misunderstanding on the waiver provisions .
these provisions are optional , they are limited in their application to specific identifiable schemes and they are on a case by case basis .
as stated by mr skinner , under the e-money procedure the customer first pays in his money and then gets the equivalent amount of electronic money .
therefore considerations of monetary supply or monetary stability - as one member put it , e-money as a vector of credit - simply do not apply .
regrettably , therefore , i cannot accept amendments nos 3 or 4 .
turning to amendment no 5 , which amends the text so as to prohibit member states from waiving the redeemability requirement but does not limit in any other way the provisions of article 8 allowing member states to waive the provisions of the directive in respect of certain limited schemes , the commission 's view of this amendment is somewhat less unfriendly than it is regarding amendments nos 1 to 4 .
animal nutrition inspections the next item is the recommendation for second reading ( a5-0084 / 2000 ) on behalf of the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy , on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive 95 / 53 / ec fixing the principles governing the organisation of official inspections in the field of animal nutrition 10804 / 1 / 1999 - c5-0273 / 1999 - 1998 / 0301 ( cod ) ( rapporteur : mr staes ) mr president , ladies and gentlemen , commissioner , practice has shown that scandals and crises can have a cleansing effect and can help improve legislation .
in flanders , where i come from , we now have what i would term , without hesitation , the strictest national hormone legislation in europe following a whole series of attacks on meat inspectors and the murder of the devoted veterinary surgeon , karel van noppen .
as early as 16 december of that same year , parliament assented to this proposal without tabling one single amendment .
after the treaty of amsterdam came into effect , the commission immediately changed the legal basis of 100 a to 152 .
this legislation offers us various procedures for transferring the powers of the council to the commission .
the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy is now submitting four amendments in plenary to mr staes ' s report .
the council is then obliged , within 30 days , to process these measures , to validate them and to legitimise or , if necessary , reject them .
europe and the internal market can only exist if they are also accepted by the citizens and the consumers .
mr president , the rapporteur said in his introduction that crises have a cleansing effect .
i therefore hope that , tomorrow , we will actually slap the council of ministers in the face by unanimously affirming the rapporteur ' s four amendments .
the council does not therefore see what we have seen , which is that as a follow-up to european legislation it is necessary to have structures to monitor and take fast action in the event of a problem .
i particularly appreciate the good collaboration with parliament in this case .
in 1998 , the detection of dioxin in some raw materials imported into the community showed the need for a legal basis to permit the commission when confronted by a serious risk to public health to adopt safeguard measures on products from third countries .
the proposal also extends the legal basis to carry out on-the-spot inspections , both in member states and in third countries .
the commission , although not opposed to most of the amendments made by the council , strongly rejected the council amendment concerning the safeguard procedure .
council has denied the possibility for the commission to take immediate action in emergency cases without consulting member states beforehand .
the possibility for the commission situations to react quickly in emergency cases even before consulting member states is a landmark question .
the discussion in the present case constitutes an important precedent for the future .
in the recent proposal to the european parliament and to the council adopted on 21 march , the commission introduced the same safeguard clause concerning feedingstuffs produced within the european union .
consequently , this question will also be relevant for several measures on feedingstuffs which are of vital importance and which are announced in the white paper on food safety .
for all these reasons , i can fully accept amendments nos 1 , 2 , and 4 by which parliament reintroduces the original provision on safeguard procedures .
a survey of the current situation shows that 307 additives are authorised within the european union .
not reducing the list , but extending it a little further since the commission has made nine proposals , either to add certain additives to the list or to extend the uses of some already authorised additives .
as for the risks to the consumer , apparently these are not very significant , but the scientific committees which have looked into the matter do consider that the laxative effect of this additive is likely to combine with other problems of the same type .
e467 is problematic in terms of assessing its harmlessness , because it contains extremely dangerous impurities .
finally , three other additives are proposed as propellants .
i think it is important , mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , to reverse the trend in the current legislation on additives .
the use of e 467 - i will not attempt to pronounce the full word - as proposed by the commission , seems to meet this requirement .
mr president , our foodstuffs - and this also applies to entirely fresh produce , for example the peeled carrots we heard mentioned today - are nowadays doctored in all kinds of ways with colouring agents , sweeteners , flavour enhancers and preservatives , in fact with every possible type of substance .
and all in order to disguise the products ' natural characteristics .
i think that community policy in relation to the use of additives has developed in a quite irresponsible way .
it is a problem which mr lannoye also mentioned in his intervention , namely the question of adding nitrates and nitrites to meat products .
i hope that commissioner byrne , who has assumed responsibility for this area , will examine the question of added amounts of nitrates and nitrites .
mr president , the report is concerned with supplementing a list of permitted additives with additional foodstuff additives , other than colouring agents and flavourings .
the commission only offers talk of the precautionary principle , whereas mr lannoye has shown in his report that it is also about implementing it in practice and actually making the precautionary principle a keynote .
as is well known , there are three prior conditions which must be fulfilled if additives are to be included on the positive list .
in addition to what mr lund has said about nitrites and nitrates , i would mention that , in the course of the last part-session , i asked the commission if the newly discovered scientific facts about these two substances ' effects on health had caused the commission to review its position .
ethylhydroxyethylcellulose has , however , been used for more than 20 years in sweden and finland , and i think also in norway , as a binding agent in gluten-free bread and pastries .
however , i maintain that in reality the opposite may be true .
he has done a service to the committee and also to this house by pointing out that this procedure appears to be almost always one-way .
we need to hear from the commission on two points of principle : the first is whether the procedures themselves need review as the commission spokesman suggested in the debate in the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy ; secondly , whether there is a more efficacious way of removing additives as well as bringing them into effect .
it seems to us that the list is getting larger and that the burden of proof must remain with those , be they in member states , in the commission or in the scientific committees , who want us to adapt these things .
i am prepared to accept that some of these are harmless .
we all want to look again at this issue and see why they have been chosen and whether we might now hold back any clearance of them , at least until the review which is suggested has been carried through .
we would prefer to strike out recital 5 and we shall so vote .
finally , as regards amendment no 2 in the name of my group , this is purely a drafting amendment to remove references to the codecision procedure .
the rapporteur rightly wonders if the additives added to our foodstuffs are really necessary and , more especially , if they are really harmless .
approved additives are safe and present no risk to public health .
food additives are only permitted if it is demonstrated that there is a technological need for them and consumers are not misled and will benefit from having a choice of new products with better quality .
several of the additives now proposed for use have been temporarily authorised by some member states .
provided that the opinions of the scientific committee are respected , technological need is demonstrated and consumers are not misled , community legislation should recognise the experience of the member states in the use of these additives .
the amendments proposed do not sufficiently take into account the opinions of the scientific committee for food and the technological need that exists in some member states .
as to the first amendment , the application of the precautionary principle is not appropriate as has been mentioned by a number of speakers this evening .
the commission does not believe that amendments nos 2 and 6 are necessary or appropriate in respect of this directive .
the commission is sponsoring this directive on the basis of the well-established criteria that the additives in question are safe , as evaluated by the scientific committee for food , that there is a technological need and that consumers are not misled and will benefit from having a choice of more products with better quality .
however , it is my own belief that such an amendment could be appropriate in framework directive 89 / 107 of 21 december 1998 , and that document is referred to in the annex to the white paper at entry no 42 .
first of all , in relation to sodium alginate , a number of speakers mentioned the fact that this particular proposal would have the effect of misleading consumers because it was designed for the purpose of keeping the carrots fresh .
i would have strong reserves about approaching a particular problem in that way and therefore we should give full regard to the opinions of scientific committees .
mr whitehead asked me if we should give some consideration to a more effective way of removing additives .
not only mr whitehead but also some other speakers made reference to this .
i would ask you , therefore , to be a little more circumspect before rejecting all the amendments out of hand , since i can also claim to have made a scientific study of the situation .
we adopted a set of changes to the rules of procedure last year to try to rationalise our work .
in these changes we gave every member the right to table an amendment as an individual at committee stage , but we limited the right to table amendments in plenary to 32 members or a political group .
however , if you look at the amendments that have been tabled on thursday , for instance to the dimitrakopoulos-leinen report , you will see that there are over 100 amendments which are tabled by individuals , supposedly in the name of their political group , but this may well not be the case .
i notice , for instance , that the epp group has over 100 amendments in its name but signed by 18 different members , none of them the coordinator or leader of the group .
over 20 of these amendments are contradictory , so they cannot possibly all be the position of the epp group .
so much time is spent and wasted on voting as it is and this is a way to get around the rationalisation of the rules of procedure we adopted as a parliament last year .
amendments must either be tabled in the name of 32 members or in the name of a political group and actually represent the position of that political group , not of the individual who happens to table them in the name of the group so as to circumvent the limitation on tabling rules in plenary .
mr president , i was present yesterday and i signed the register but my name does not appear in the minutes .
it shall be done , mrs mcnally .
mr rubig , look upon it as an exceptional decision taken in response to specific requests from the portuguese presidency . ( the minutes were approved ) mr president , on a point of order .
it concerns a reference made yesterday by the president on the change of business which is taking place this week .
it is planned for our agenda in may .
on postponement of the decision concerning discharge to the commission in respect of the financial management of the sixth , seventh and eighth european development funds for the 1998 financial year [ com ( 1999 ) 227 - c5-0003 / 1999 - 1999 / 2004 ( dec ) ] .
on granting discharge to the european foundation for improvement of living and working conditions ( dublin ) for the 1998 financial year [ c5-0150 / 2000 - 2000 / 2094 ( dec ) ] .
on granting discharge to the european centre for the development of vocational training ( thessaloniki ) for the 1998 financial year [ c5-0149 / 2000 - 2000 / 2093 ( dec ) ] .
on the granting of discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the 1998 financial year section iv - court of justice section v - court of auditors section vi , part b - committee of the regions [ sec ( 1999 ) 414 - c5-0008 / 1999 - 1999 / 2166 ( dec ) ] .
firstly , the error rate of over five per cent calculated by the court of auditors over several years must be cut considerably by 2001 and a positive declaration of assurance must be achieved by 2003 .
secondly , the particularly blatant cases of fraud and irregularity in connection with the flechard case , echo , med and contracts awarded to visiting scientists must be fully clarified and dealt with in disciplinary terms .
thirdly , parliament must be given unrestricted access to information and documents for its control activities , as called for in the 1997 discharge resolution .
fourthly : reports must be filed on the relevant disciplinary hearings and fundamental reforms implemented .
the fact that this motion was tabled in the form of a compromise between the four main groups demonstrates clearly that parliament is pulling in the same direction on this extremely important issue and wishes to signal its unity over and above party political divisions and any national interests or chauvinism .
commissioner ' s kinnock ' s reform paper , which is broad in scope if nothing else , sets off every single alarm bell in the area of financial control .
decentralisation must not result in the total de facto abolition of internal financial control .
in this sense , i see the motion for a resolution as a chance for the commission to justify the trust which parliament demonstrated in it and its president when i was nominated last september and which it reiterated in its discharge for the 1997 budgetary year .
the motion should also send out nothing more and nothing less than a clear signal of parliament ' s support to the president of the commission , who unfortunately is not with us here today .
however , it is difficult to grant discharge for a budget which is two years old and this problem is exacerbated by the fact that it was not the responsibility of the present commission but of its predecessor , a commission which resigned because it failed to take its responsibilities seriously enough .
our committee had confidential information on mismanagement and irregularities which amounted to suspicion of corruption .
together with representatives from the commission and the parliamentary committee on development we have drawn up an action plan , which can be implemented by 15 may .
i think that this development clearly demonstrates the direction that we need to take .
the commission and parliament must work together and must create greater transparency in relation to the budget and its implementation .
it took the committee over 15 months to refer justified cases of suspicion of fraud to olaf .
however , we have not moved for a postponement in this area because we hope that a satisfactory solution can be found and that we can grant discharge for the buildings in the 1999 budget with no further pressure needed .
my draft report was presented to the committee in all language versions on 10 february this year and all the shortcomings reported in the press , such as the article in the european voice about 10 days ago , have already been addressed in an open and critical manner in the report .
that is another difference in the discharge procedures .
if we did that , there would not be a single commission over the next 20 years which needed to fear parliament ' s discharge or , at most , its merciless opportunism !
the reason for this is that we delayed the discharge for 1992 for a long time , because we had made certain requirements of the commission which up to last year it had failed to meet .
in general terms , the error rate for agriculture is below the general error rate for the budget .
there has since been an increase in expenditure for development within rural areas but i will come back to this .
we can grant discharge to the commission without these three elements .
the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam therefore means that the principle of the equality of all citizens and of the equivalence of all acts in the eyes of the law must be applied in the area of the protection of financial interests .
mr president , we are now considering the first legislative measure on the prevention of fraud and other irregularities since the treaty of amsterdam came into force .
this is an amendment to a regulation designed to prevent fraud and other irregularities relating to the common agricultural policy .
in 1970 , the cap accounted for up to 87 % of community expenditure and this amount has gradually fallen over the last three decades to around 45 % of community expenditure today .
until a few years ago , even the policing of fraud in agriculture was not overseen by the appropriate department , which was uclaf , but by the directorate-general for agriculture itself .
this is why we propose that this house should request that the legal basis for regulating the prevention of fraud and other irregularities be changed from article 37 to article 280 .
we have decided to give the discharge on three conditions , and the conditions are clearly spelt out .
we hope that by 15 august those concerned will give us the information that is requested .
the number of people employed for the amount of money being invested is again quite disproportionate .
i am hoping that this can be wound up speedily and incorporated in either the eib or the european investment fund , because that would be a better way of using the money and resources .
this is for the social and research fund , but again these objectives could be better addressed by a bank that would ask other banks to manage investments so that we have the highest return .
i hope that the three conditions , the conditional discharge and the obligations on those concerned to address these conditions will be taken seriously .
so i hope that the answers will be given to parliament and to the committee on budgetary control .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , as rapporteur for the committee on citizens ' freedoms and rights , justice and home affairs , it is with some satisfaction that i would like to point out that , in our own area of competence , the court of auditors had no criticism to make of the way the appropriations for the financial year 1998 were implemented .
in a word , as far as our committee ' s area of competence is concerned , there is nothing to prevent the discharge being granted to the commission .
the citizens ' primary right is to see that their money is managed and spent properly and as long is this is not clearly established discharge must not be granted .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , expenditure for research accounts for nearly two thirds of the budget for internal policy .
the success and usefulness of the research programmes are beyond dispute .
but effective implementation requires better management and coordination , as well as inspections carried out by various directorates-general .
secondly , the irregularities identified by the court of auditors refer mainly to errors in relation to proof of expenditure which are signed by member states , and for which they are responsible .
we have translated this criticism into a number of very concrete questions , answers and proposals in order to make drastic changes to the policy as it is being adopted now and will be adopted this coming year .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , today , for the second time this year , we are debating the discharge of the commission for the budget of a previous financial year .
two and a half months ago , you granted the commission discharge for the 1997 budget .
in its report on the 1998 financial year , submitted in november last year , the court of auditors granted the commission a declaration of assurance with regard to receipts and the handling of commitment appropriations .
that is why i immediately took the initiative , in my official capacity , of drafting an action plan listing specific measures sector by sector on the basis of a specific timetable , in order to reduce the number of errors identified .
nearly 90 % of all errors identified or highlighted by the court of auditors concern the member states .
the majority of payments out of the eu budget are paid not directly by the brussels administration , but by administrative units in the member states .
the council , which recommended discharge for the commission , included the question of shared management in its debate on the 1998 budget discharge and the proposal was mooted that the member states should perhaps set their own objective for reducing shortcomings in the implementation of eu funds , an interesting proposal .
the european court of auditors also issued a declaration of assurance for the budget of the european development fund , although it did find cause for complaint .
the legislative , budgetary and control powers of the individual institutions overlap even more in the european union than they do in the member states .
the chairman of the committee on budgetary control , mrs theato , also has a very responsible role in this respect .
the commission has made a commitment to transparency and openness .
the commission has nothing to hide and this commission sees it as its duty to support parliament fully in the performance of its duties .
the commission is called on in the report adopted by the committee on budgetary control to answer various questions or take direct action by 15 may .
i should like to thank the committee on budgetary control for this resolution and also for the deadline attached to it .
i should like to say quite clearly at this point that the commission will do everything within its powers to fight fraud and that applies not only to the future , but to clearing up past cases .
it also means that proportionality is required when meting out punishment and demanding refunds and this applies both to demands by the commission and to refunds demanded by the member states .
my colleague franz fischler will shortly be going into the question of the agricultural budget in connection with discharge in greater detail .
but i too should like to say at this point that i do not see the letters drawing the commission ' s attention to the fact that companies may fold or jobs be destroyed following certain commission measures as an illegal attempt at intervention , irrespective of whether the letters originate in parliament or in a member state and regardless of whether they come from france , ireland or bavaria .
however , the commission will immediately notify olaf of your demands and , as far as the administrative investigation is concerned , i have set the procedure of clarification in motion .
the commission will do everything to ensure that the reform is a success and it would be a good thing if all the european institutions were to expose themselves to such reform .
mr mulder , i should like to start by thanking you on behalf of the commission for your report on granting discharge in respect of the decisions on clearance of accounts of the guarantee section of the eaggf for the 1993 , 1994 and 1995 financial years .
the date of april 2002 is needed in order at last to guarantee the proper operation of the integrated administration and control system in all the member states .
even if it is not prescribed under law , it could of course simplify a number of operations , not only for the commission , but also for the court of auditors or olaf .
the recruitment procedure for the remaining six posts has already been completed , or will be shortly .
the conciliation body referred to in number 16 of the report is one of the measures which should ensure that efforts to speed up the procedure do not compromise the quality of document audits .
as far as proposed amendment no 2 is concerned , the commission cannot accept the part which refers to the second paragraph of article 5a , in which mention is made of administrative and staffing costs incurred by the commission in administering this scheme .
on the other hand , granting discharge is a serious procedure with serious consequences in that the controlling body answers for the fact that the activities and financial conduct of the body being controlled have been correct from a legal , economic and political point of view .
the sources for the information and documents needed from the commission , on the other hand , gushed little , if anything at all , despite a great deal of paper and , unfortunately , no clear answers were given to the questions asked .
the rapporteur quotes four cases by way of example .
the rapporteur and the committee on budgetary control are not holding the present commission per se responsible for the deplorable state of affairs in previous years .
using the pressure of postponement to advance discharge is constructive pressure because it gives the commission the chance to clear up shortcomings caused by slowness , pettifogging or unwillingness so that parliament will be able to grant discharge for 1998 as quickly as possible , hopefully before the summer recess .
mr president , the committee on budgetary control has considered several reports recently , mostly relating to the 1998 discharge procedure .
it is a strange time for us to be considering how the commission is faring after its forced resignation last year due to many of the issues highlighted in the 1996 discharge .
the discharge procedure is , of course , an opportunity for the european parliament to exercise its responsibility in terms of monitoring the commission and the other institutions ' behaviour .
we ensure that policies have been well managed .
i will quote shakespeare .
it makes no sense in the context of the postponement report , and it is totally nonsensical and hysterical in tone .
we would like to thank the rapporteur for her cooperation on that .
but one thing which has become manifestly clear to me during this process is that we need an overhaul of the discharge procedure to avoid this kind of confrontation again .
this discharge procedure should be an opportunity to study systems failures within the commission .
in an ideal world , it should be based on the court of auditors ' report , but that does mean that both the budgetary control committee and the court of auditors must develop a much closer relationship .
there is a massive amount of expertise in the court of auditors , expertise that parliament should draw on in order to reach its own political conclusions .
the discharge procedure should not be a time to score political points nor to hound individuals but , where systems fail and lead to inefficiency or - worse - to fraud , it is the duty of parliament to correct them .
we must also make sure that we find a mechanism within this system to make sure that we take account not only of the reports that are submitted by members of the budgetary control committee , but also those by members of other parliamentary committees .
these are just two examples of how the commission can improve its act in the short term without waiting to implement all the recommendations of the white paper .
there is a question to answer as to whether the current commission should or can take responsibility for the mistakes and problems of the past commission .
if we took this to its logical conclusion , it would mean that parliament could only judge a sitting commission during three years of its tenure .
mr kuhne has done an excellent job as rapporteur for the parliament discharge .
our financial control system does not have the quantity of payments that the commission has and therefore things are more manageable .
we have had everlasting problems , of course , with the buildings , often through no fault of our own but because decisions have been imposed on us by the council .
if the council had any concern about budget control , we certainly would not be sitting in this building right now .
it has still not been published officially , and therefore it is difficult for us to comment on it .
i am delighted that mrs ruhle has done such a great job on the edf report .
we hope that we will be able to develop a better approach in the next part of this discharge procedure .
i should add that we , as a group , have less appreciation for the explanatory note which the rapporteur has added to her own resolution .
i would now like to come back to the stauner report and a number of points made in it .
we can see that the new commission is making an effort , but the 1998 discharge is at issue here and we must take it very seriously .
we must re-establish confidence and that means that , as a committee , we must make a critical examination of the 1998 budget .
we hope that the action plan will help the administration to achieve better management .
obviously it was not possible to submit this action plan in time for today ' s decision .
however , we call on parliament for precisely this reason to vote for a postponement here , so that an action plan can be drawn up jointly by 15 may .
transparency and openness mean - and this is my clear call - that we must apply the same yardstick to all the institutions .
mr president , the european union lacks moral authority .
i do not really understand why it should discharge itself just now , when the report by the court of auditors of the european communities on monetary and economic issues for 1998 is being prepared and is about to be published .
most of the officials in the eu are diligent and decent people .
postponement of the granting of discharge is in itself the result of a quite incredible situation .
these extraordinary results from a seedy administrative culture go back to 1998 and are not this commission ' s direct responsibility , but it is the present commission ' s responsibility to show that the misconduct , fraud and betrayal of mandates which have taken place really do belong to the past .
we shall therefore vote against the discharge for parliament ' s 1998 accounts .
the commission must understand that they are not europe ' s overlords but the servants of european citizens .
i think that we need to do some straight talking to the commission and that we may have to penalise their persistent bad conduct with a new crisis of confidence after 15 may , if necessary by means of a motion of no confidence , because desperate situations call for desperate measures .
under article 276 ( 2 ) , the ec treaty requires the commission to submit to parliament any necessary information on the execution of expenditure and operation of the financial control systems .
i have a few comments on mr kuhne ' s and mrs stauner ' s reports .
if we take the context of this report we will see that it has to stand on its own merits .
if we add to that the court of auditors ' report on the operation of the political groups , we have come to the conclusion in our political group that we need to postpone discharge on its own merits .
you can ask for access to information , but if you do not get it then you have to start applying a certain rigidity and postpone discharge .
secondly , the question of the disciplinary procedure .
therefore we , as a parliament , should look at each of these cases as it stands .
my group will be in favour of postponing discharges both for the commission and for parliament until all the information is available to us .
mrs schreyer , members of the commission , use the postponement of discharge for the 1998 budget as an opportunity to show that the new team is strong on management and able to act .
mr president , the key task of this european parliament is , and remains , that of restoring european citizens ' confidence in the european project .
unfortunately , the council failed once again this year to follow the good example of parliament , and discharge for 1998 has been granted as if the matter were quite insignificant .
our pressure has prompted the european commission to undertake drastic reform in foreign policy .
the plans for changing the project cycle and transforming the scr into a european bureau are a positive step forward .
the kuhne report is parliament ' s first report which takes discharge seriously .
i would like to emphatically lay the blame for parliament ' s bad image with those who have always had a majority .
the two large parties are responsible for the ethos of nepotism and underhand dealing which permeates this house .
to grant discharge is , when all is said and done , to grant a certificate of good management .
the four largest groups have reached a compromise in which it is recommended that discharge be delayed and that the european commission be given a list of 17 specific questions .
i was a victim of this myself in a previous life when my computer and printer were stolen .
hence our amendment which recommends postponement of discharge for parliament ' s budget and which has given the secretary-general a list of queries which we expect to be answered by 15 may .
the union for a europe of nations group is convinced that such practices can only seriously impair the credibility and , hence , the image of the european union as a whole .
the treaties clearly establish the exclusive competence of parliament in matters of budgetary control .
mr president , the 1998 discharge procedure illustrates once again that the european union ' s bad image is not totally unfounded but is actually based on facts .
the stauner report deserves every support on this score .
it is important that you try to become , firstly , an example for the member states to follow and that , therefore , you understand that we demand more of you , if possible ; and one day we will have to start to talk very seriously about these cases which are always detected in the council rather than in the commission .
all the groups have reached an agreement to raise 17 questions in relation to certain cases .
after the crisis of the previous commission , which you have begun to deal with , what we want - because we believe in your intentions and we want a strong and independent commission and we are therefore giving you time - is for you to give us a positive response to certain very specific cases .
as rapporteur for the 1999 commission budget , i would love to be able to do my work in the clear knowledge of which documents we have access to and which we do not and why .
as you can see in this budget , this is a political debate which goes beyond a strict examination of what you have done with regard to the 1998 budget .
we will also have to reach a framework agreement on how we can include in this debate - which is becoming increasingly important - not only accounting issues but also issues from other years relating to expenditure or management .
you are facing a great challenge , because even more resources are lost through a lack of motivation , that virus which has infected the entire administration of the commission and which you must eradicate .
this is a quality issue which will also have to be increasingly discussed in the context of this debate .
i will refer finally to the european parliament ' s budget , and i would like to reply to those people who say that , since we are supposedly tough and demanding with you , we must also be so with regard to our own institution .
the same must be demanded of parliament as of all the others , but this is our house , we have more information and we can therefore take a different approach when it comes to proposing , as the kuhne report does , a conditional discharge and not a postponement of the discharge .
i will end by saying that you can reply to the 17 questions we have raised .
we want you to do so , and we understand that in that way we can support you so that you , who have just joined this commission , can really control your house . ' take the bull by the horns ' - as we say in spain - and we will be able to achieve a discharge for this year on the part of the majority of the groups in this house before the summer .
the treaty is clear : in accordance with article 276 , parliament is entitled to obtain all necessary information in connection with the discharge procedure .
excuse me but , either the man has been out in the sun too long or he must have some incredibly bad advisers .
until they understand this , i think we should postpone granting discharge .
i hope the commission will take our demands seriously .
the echo scandal has still not led to any repercussions .
the problem is that the echo case is not about property crime .
the decision to exonerate the previous director was taken by the previous commission , and this was a political decision pure and simple .
there are still unresolved demands but , if we postpone granting the discharge , this will be accompanied by clear demands upon the commission .
i obtained 11 reports under pentagon-like conditions , but olaf still does not know anything about these .
as the member states , that is to say the council , has advocated discharge , this is almost a matter of structural conflict .
apparently , the court of auditors should specify the shortcomings and incidences of malpractice in more detail and place less trust in mathematics .
commissioner kinnock ' s package of reforms must be pushed through without delay .
the main focus is the reform of internal auditing in each of the institutions .
mr president , over the last few days we have read in the press that the european parliament is a haven for thieves .
mr president , commissioner , i was responsible for the research section of the part of the report by my fellow member , gabriele stauner , relating to internal policy .
the court of auditors highlighted a series of shortcomings in the research area in 1998 .
they also include the internal audit report drafted in 1997 on the area of jurisdiction of the former commissioner for research , mrs cresson .
mr president , representatives of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , the discharge procedure is a complicated exercise .
this report was unacceptable in its initial form because it did not give us the material to form an opinion as to whether or not the budget for 1998 was correctly implemented by the commission .
i shall conclude by mentioning the internal reform of the commission .
among other objectives , the commission has set itself the task of improving financial control by various means : new structures , responsibilities of authorising officers , and financial controllers within each directorate-general .
it also seems essential that , in combination with the determination to reduce irregularity and fraud effectively , the reform should be able to look into the implementation of our policies within member states , where one of the problems arising concerns payment deadlines and the inadequacy of some payment appropriations .
there is fraud at every level of government at which i have served - local , national and european and regional .
it is always there , but local and national bodies can stand up to criticism better perhaps than this younger institution of the european union , which is less accepted .
the last point i will make is that we have not only an obligation to ensure that accounts are better kept and money is better accounted for .
mr president , parliament ' s refusal last year to grant discharge on the 1996 budgetary year heralded the fall of the santer commission .
parliament employed its powers in a sound manner under special circumstances .
the commission is being given the opportunity of responding to a number of urgent questions raised and requests made by parliament before 15 may .
the commission has already indicated that it will submit proposals to this effect before the summer .
i am therefore all the more at home today in expressing the concerns i have due to the discharge procedure which is being carried out .
i do not wish to challenge the compromise which appears in the resolution negotiated between the political groups and the rapporteur .
firstly , it no longer uses the vehement and aggressive tone of the initial draft report , a tone which i do not find , as i might say in the style of kenneth starr , worthy of this house , being rather more suited to the tabloid press , and one which should not in any case be used to characterise relations between a responsible institution , such as our own , and a commission in which we expressed our confidence but a few months ago .
thirdly , this report asks the commission questions which it can answer within reasonable time limits , enabling us to vote upon discharge within the time limits stipulated by the treaty .
the first is that we are forgetting what the discharge procedure consists of .
mr president , i shall focus on only one point : access to information .
many of my colleagues have raised this issue this morning .
in my committee , the committee on industry , external trade , research and energy , we are determined to take our responsibilities as meps very seriously indeed .
a start would be a list of who is responsible for what in which budget lines of each committee .
first of all , i would like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur for her report .
finally , i would like to mention the problem surrounding the leonardo programme .
you will be aware that the leonardo programme has played an extremely important role in the events which have led to the previous commission resigning from office .
we want , in the final analysis , to place our trust in the courts , olaf and the disciplinary measures and decisions taken and to work together with president prodi ' s new commission on a basis of trust and on the basis precisely of the relevant new rules and obligations introduced .
demanding a new audit , without submitting any proof or evidence , is hardly going to enhance the credibility of our parliament .
it would be very useful if the commission were to release more information to us and give us the reports we ask for .
any new proof that arises from these cases must be investigated .
the three cases i have mentioned are also quite important because they reflect remarkably on four current commissioners .
all four of them must look carefully at their past , come clean and show this new commission where reform is needed .
i hope that commissioner kinnock listens to this debate and will reflect upon .
although we have recommended discharge for our own budget this time , there are a number of points in the discharge report we should look at , especially the inventory services and the new system .
i welcome the fact that the kuhne report has called for a report on the new inventory system for parliament .
i hope the commission takes the time to look at this debate seriously .
i must simply therefore ask , if we are being accused of withholding something , that you specify what has been withheld , because it is only on this basis that we can clear up misunderstandings or give you more information and this should not fail because of the commission .
the legal basis for olaf clearly states that the director of olaf is responsible for information on investigations or the results of investigations .
we have to discuss this with the director of olaf .
another important point is the question of disciplinary procedure and i should like to comment on this .
mr bosch , you made the comment that the council did not unanimously recommend discharge for the commission this year .
mr mulder , you also returned to this point .
i think we should discuss this at some point - including in the committee on budgetary control - because although the procedure in the netherlands is of course different , there are valuable points which we could perhaps adopt for the procedure in relation to the european budget .
the commission has also decided to set up a separate , internal ex-post audit service and i think that this will again demonstrate that the commission takes the subject of improved financial control extremely seriously .
it has been clearly stated that the objective must be to reduce the error rate and i can only agree with this .
but obviously i cannot reduce the error rates for the 1998 or 1999 budgets in retrospect .
mrs langenhagen used her intervention to criticise the independent financial controller of the union in connection with a report on the research centre in geel .
mrs ferreira , allow me to congratulate you on your first speech in parliament and to thank you for your call for cooperation for the benefit of european politics .
thank you , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
amendments nos 3 and 4 propose to limit substantially the circumstances in which member states may waive some or all of the provisions of the directive to certain limited electronic money schemes .
therefore , the commission cannot accept amendments nos 3 and 4 .
the request was not submitted in time .
at that time the commission announced a legislative programme with a view to improving food safety regulations .
mismanagement of the crisis , particularly the poor coordination between the various authorities involved , became apparent and was noted in the course of the commission inspection .
the common position did not adopt the european commission ' s right to take safeguard measures appropriate to the context of animal nutrition in the event of an emergency .
this is why the rapporteur proposes reintroducing this clause , and i am pleased to see it because without this clause there is no guarantee of consumer protection in food crisis situations .
on the other hand , these experiments assess the effect of each substance taken in isolation .
we therefore await commission proposals for provisions that are directed more at improving consumer protection but also at promoting quality foodstuffs !
kirkhope report ( a5-0090 / 2000 ) : the danish social democratic members of the european parliament have chosen to vote in favour of the report and fully and wholeheartedly support the initiatives being taken where this is concerned .
in addition , the report sets the cut-off age at 16 for the definition of what must be considered to be child pornography .
in the same way , the idea of the ' offence of child pornography ' must be seen as quite comprehensive !
in addition , it is very important to organise better cooperation between member states police forces through europol .
the european parliament must make bold proposals and must remain very vigilant .
in the same way , it is important that joint , effective measures should be taken and that the european parliament should be kept informed of how this work is progressing .
within the vast internet market there are some people who have found ways to make easy money from exploiting human poverty .
frahm report ( a5-0091 / 2000 ) : mr president , creating this european refugee fund is the very least that could be done to face up to the reception of refugees and forcibly displaced persons likely to enter european union territory .
as in the case of the structural funds , the citizens will be led to believe that europe is handing out heaven-sent money in order to assist them in managing refugees .
europe is thus creating a good reputation for itself on the cheap .
it is always the same process : some pitiful situation is selected ( the plight of the refugees , in this instance ) in order to appeal not to rational argument but to people ' s sympathy .
following our opinion and the response of the council , the commission replaced this project with a proposal to create a european refugee fund , initially for a period of five years ( 2000-2004 ) and i must say that i am delighted with it !
in putting forward a multiannual plan with a wider sphere of activity , the commission is acting in compliance with the treaty of amsterdam in undertaking long-term actions in favour of refugees and displaced persons and responding to the requirements expressed by the european council in tampere in october 1999 regarding the creation of an instrument appropriate for emergency situations .
the fund is a single instrument intended to integrate the three facets of european policy on refugees : the reception , integration and repatriation of refugees and displaced persons .
for the financial year 2000 , the commission proposes an allocation of eur 26 million for structural measures and eur 10 million for emergency measures .
the european commission must provide us with financial estimates covering the entire period of the programme within the scope of current financial perspectives and , if necessary , a proposal for the revision of appropriations , in view of the fact that much greater amounts will be necessary in order to achieve the fund ' s objectives .
an approach whereby immigrants entering the eu in search of protection are seen as a " burden " which has to be " distributed " is fundamentally flawed .
the fund will not , in this form , cause any country to switch to a policy of greater openness towards the immigration of refugees .
a knowledge-based economy underpinned by a society based on information and research will be a powerful factor in the european union ' s development and of course requires a swift and consistent process of structural reforms and the completion of the internal market .
just yesterday , i was able to inform the general affairs council that the portuguese presidency had already prepared a timetable for the remits given by the council for implementation of specific measures in the various areas , and also for appropriate preparation of the feira and nice european councils .
the ecofin council will primarily assume responsibility for strengthening the cardiff process , the action plan for financial services , the action plan for venture capital , the tax package , the mid-term review of the employment guidelines and for the assessment of the contribution made by public finances to growth and employment .
the employment and social affairs council will assume responsibility for conducting a review of the employment guidelines , for mandating the high-level working party on social protection to prepare a study on the sustainability of the pensions system up to 2020 , for applying an open method of coordination to policies for combating social exclusion and for considering the future direction of social policy , with a view to reaching agreement on a european social agenda at the nice european council .
the research council will assume responsibility for the e-europe action plan and for promoting the establishment of a european research area .
the education council will assume responsibility for considering the future objectives of our educational systems , with a view to contributing to the luxembourg and cardiff processes by establishing new basic skills at european union level , for creating a european diploma for basic it skills , for removing obstacles to the mobility of teachers , for developing a european format for curricula vitae , for monitoring national policies on implementing these objectives , for access to the internet in schools by 2001 and for the minimum training , by 2002 , of the network of information technology teachers .
as you can see , the task of setting objectives at the lisbon european council is developing into a major timetable for action that the commission and the various council formations must now implement .
the european council defined a new union strategy , a strategy which will make us a leading power in the new knowledge-based economy and make it possible to restore the necessary conditions for full employment .
the lisbon european council made a firm political commitment to an ambitious socio-economic plan ; clear objectives were agreed for the reforms , the european social model was consolidated and , most importantly , it is now possible for the pledges made to be followed with immediate , practical actions .
our success in lisbon was largely due to the excellent preparatory work of the portuguese presidency .
the lisbon debate generated substantial agreement on most issues .
the european council stressed the importance of a strong , sound macroeconomic policy , consolidation in the field of taxation and sustainable financial policies and the structural reforms .
with regard to the internal market , the european council adopted ambitious objectives in the field of procurement and in order to implement action plans for financial services and risk capital .
the commission must act as the driving force in this process .
the european council subscribed to the joint report prepared by the commission and the high representative , and also our request for more effective coordination between the various programmes implemented by the union in that region .
finally , on the subject of russia , the european council recognised the strategic nature of our relations with moscow and invited president putin to take note of our concern over the situation in chechnya .
to sum up , madam president , i would like to thank this house for its valuable contribution to the lisbon summit and for all it did to ensure the council ' s success .
madam president , mr gama , president prodi , with good reason the lisbon summit could be dubbed historic in terms of its political content .
the ppe-de group and , to the best of my knowledge , the whole of parliament , support the commission ' s work while voicing constructive criticism .
as the imperfections of the single market now also stem from protraction on the part of the member states , the implementation of each of the decisions taken at lisbon will also depend at institutional level above all on whether the member states will stand by the solemn theses of lisbon in the years to come .
madam president , the lisbon summit will mark a milestone .
yet the market economy must necessarily have a social dimension .
i therefore advise all the christian democrats , all the liberals and all the democrats in general who want to see a social market economy , to vote in favour of the resolution proposed by the group of the party of european socialists .
we wish to combine economic efficiency , quality of life and social protection .
i also want to express satisfaction at the fact that the open coordination with which we are familiar from employment policy is to be used as a tool in other areas to promote the use of information technology and reinforce training and strengthen research .
working for common goals in this open and flexible way , in which countries can measure themselves against each other and learn from one another , is a good way both of ensuring progress and , at the same time , of guaranteeing individual countries ' freedom to seek their own solutions to their own problems .
in developing employment policy and combating social exclusion , it is only right to invest not only in economic growth but also in education and training as a way of giving those who are excluded from society a foothold in the labour market and enabling them to help themselves .
finally , i would offer an important and perhaps less complimentary remark .
madam president , mr president-in-office of the council , president of the commission , i think it is clear that , in january , when the portuguese presidency issued its first paper , the original impulse was perfectly laudable .
having said that , mr prodi , the real challenge would be if , in coming months , you did not endorse this motion for a resolution , in the event that parliament votes in favour of it tomorrow .
there is not one line on the reports which the commission nonetheless submitted at the european council in helsinki .
not one line on the practical implementation of article 6 of the treaty on european union .
in one of its documents on the integration of financial markets , the commission itself said that such integration was possible only with a minimum of tax regulation .
finally , in social matters , i do not think it wise , mr monti , for the commission to give up any legislative proposals in matters of employment law .
the new economy also involves enabling workers , in the event of company restructuring or necessary discussions about the incorporation of technological innovations in companies , to proceed in decent conditions .
this must also be included in the nice social agenda and we urge you to ensure that this is the case , because my group wishes to see a strong and ambitious commission , and will support you if you take the comments i have just made into account .
if that means that the lisbon summit sanctioned a liberal view of europe , then i must of course , unfortunately , concur with this analysis .
the political difference between us is not a question of whether or not to adopt modern methods , but of what our concept of these modern methods is , particularly on the place and the role which all men and women , bar none , must play , both as workers and as citizens .
these conclusions were presented by the heads of state and government as part of a strategic objective to make the european union the most competitive area in the world within ten years , by developing a knowledge-based economy and adopting policies geared towards growth and full employment .
i could go on , as there are countless conclusions completely identical to those in the 1993 white paper .
there is nevertheless one aspect that deserves a particular mention in the area of policies for full employment .
in 1993 , the objective was to halve the number of unemployed in the european union , from 17 million to 8.5 million .
the fact is that we are now in 2000 , unemployment still stands at 15 million and the summit conclusions promise us rates of almost full employment in ten years ' time .
on the other hand , how is it that there can still be gross disparities in the minimum wage levels of some member states , marked differences in the quality of social security systems and in the value of retirement pensions , and even in levels of unemployment or hidden unemployment , not to mention increasingly widespread pockets of poverty and exclusion ?
in my own country , there is a tradition which differs markedly from the dominant tradition in the european union .
my own country ' s government opposes this , and so do we who are sceptical about this self-fulfilling development within the european union .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , lisbon focused on employment , economic reform and the shift to the digital age .
it is in the interests of the union to clarify relations between austria and the eu .
nobody doubts the importance of preparing the european public for the demands of a society based on information , knowledge , and new communications technologies as strategic weapons , in order to emerge victorious in the future , generating employment with higher-quality work and higher pay .
madam president , i wish to add my warm welcome and congratulations to the presidency on the successful achievement of the lisbon summit .
i think we will come to see in the future that all roads did lead to lisbon via luxembourg , cardiff and cologne , because lisbon should be the end of a process , one that can actually deliver as regards the sort of priorities we want to bring to a successful conclusion throughout the whole of the european union .
the key question is how we turn the conclusions of the lisbon summit into action ; we must ensure that we turn the rhetoric of lisbon into a reality .
i want to look at the challenges that are inherent in the lisbon process for parliament , the commission and , indeed , all three institutions .
in particular , for parliament there is a huge challenge in realising the full legislative implications of completing a single market .
it is a challenge that parliament must rise to , working with the other institutions , commissioner prodi and his colleagues , and the council .
if we do not , nobody will understand or forgive us for not realising our aim .
the reason , as i mentioned before the lisbon summit , relates to those who are in the gallery with us today - the citizens of europe .
to me , lisbon is all about creating a europe of highly-paid , highly-skilled , high-value-added jobs .
if we can achieve that sort of europe from the lisbon process , it will be good for our citizens and for europe as a whole , because what could be more socially just and inclusive than a europe that genuinely benefits from full employment and good jobs that everybody can enjoy ?
now is the time for us as a parliament , the commission and the council to work together to ensure that key is turned . - ( pt ) mr president , mr president of the commission , mr president-in-office , the document adopted at the lisbon summit is rather abstract , and this may mean that it is not implemented equitably .
the council ought to think about this and work towards a real europe . - ( pt ) mr president , the results of the lisbon summit demonstrate that everything the portuguese presidency has up to now presented as a priority for employment and for combating social exclusion has merely been a massive attempt to pull the wool over our eyes .
its supporters may try to make its conclusions look rosy , whether they are talking about the so-called modernisation of the european social model or about the need to make the european union the most competitive area in the world , but they cannot hide their real aims , which are to produce a labour market free from the conditions imposed by legislation designed to protect workers ' rights , to put social security entirely in the hands of the financial markets and to speed up the process of liberalisation in fundamental sectors such as gas , electricity , postal services , transport and telecommunications .
this new method also entails the european council rediscovering its fundamental strategic guidance mission , while allowing the various councils of ministers to take the practical decisions and the commission to prepare and execute policy .
mr president , i decided to speak in this debate when i read the truly excellent analysis of the current situation in europe produced by the european commission before the lisbon summit .
it is true that the lisbon summit also represented something of a sea-change in attitudes towards the global society and in particular towards issues like e-commerce .
at the same time there was a tension in lisbon between the old world of the international socialists and the new world of those who have a slightly wider perspective .
the summit was variously described as a social summit and an e-summit and so on .
the reality is that the european social model is now living in london and she is called laetitia casta .
she is marianne , the symbol of france but taxes in france are now so high that she now has to go and live in london despite the vastly increased taxation under labour .
when i talk about words , i am thinking about words like " bench-marking " and " peer review " .
what actually matters is a light touch on the e-commerce directive , a light touch on telecommunications .
please mr prodi , ignore your friends on the left and stick with the new world not the old world .
at the same time , there are 800 000 highly-skilled jobs in the new economy which cannot be filled due to a lack of skilled human resources .
however , these highways can only be built by the member states , by the public sector and by the european union .
as for the promise to create twenty million jobs in the years to come , this is just as deceitful as it is ridiculous .
mr president , mr president of the commission , ladies and gentlemen , on one side of the coin we read that economic growth and employment figures are up , the e-europe action plan is in the pipeline , unemployment is beginning to drop slightly and the economic and employment forecasts are good .
on the other side of the coin , we read that there are still 15 million unemployed , the telecommunications and internet services sector is underdeveloped , there is a widening skills gap in information technology , structural long-term unemployment , too many state monopolies and fetters , competitive disadvantages vis-a-vis the usa and shortcomings in the implementation of european innovations .
mr president , i welcome the lisbon conclusions .
we will be looking very carefully , for example , at how the broad economic guidelines will be prepared , at just how successful the input of the social affairs and employment council will be in emphasising the need for employment and social cohesion when it formulates the broad economic guidelines .
if so , i think we will be disappointed .
further than that , how quickly will the high-level group on the future of social protection begin to move into the realm of a convergence strategy for social protection that this house has called for ?
it should be honest and say that , like us , it has always supported a social market economy .
but as always we want that to be balanced by solidarity and social inclusion .
i am talking about the request to the commission that it contemplate , for 2001 , a coordinated strategy in the legislative field .
at the moment we have , to name but a few , initiatives such as slim , the business test panel , the regulatory policy guidelines and the better law-making report , not to mention the initiatives relating to codification or the quality of legislation .
improving quality must not only be directed at community legislation but also at the legislation of the member states .
in all new legislation we must establish a better balance between ' self regulation ' and ' public regulation ' , in accordance with what , in the conclusions of the lisbon summit , in some initiatives , has been called coregulation .
we must review the ' best business impact ' initiative .
throughout the whole of this exercise , we must take account of the interests of the consumers and the interests of the environment , and these are complicated tasks .
we have to tackle that reform of the treaty .
mr president , congratulations on a particularly focused summit as regards : the clarity of the objectives ; the analysis of the tasks needed to meet those objectives ; and the built-in progress-chasing system .
there was particular emphasis at this summit on the european area of research and innovation , following the excellent communication from commissioner busquin .
we need people who have been disenfranchised in the areas of science and technology - women , older people and particularly those suffering disadvantage - to be on board in the quest for this wider knowledge .
of course , we need new products and we need new processes and we need new ideas about how our society should be run .
we also need new sustainable technologies .
mr president , many commentators have drawn adverse comparisons between the european union and the old soviet union .
it may have been appropriate for the kremlin in the 1960s but it is totally out of place in 21st century europe .
i do not know whether she was speaking for her party , for the parliament or in a personal capacity but i absolutely reject , repudiate and condemn her remarks and am delighted to have this opportunity of publicly dissociating myself from them .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , mr president of the commission , in january and last month , we were able to congratulate the portuguese presidency on its initiative to hold this special council and on the thorough and conscientious way in which the council had been prepared .
we know how difficult the real world is and how difficult it is to get the european union to agree on a strategic objective .
i would like to express a deep-felt concern here : whilst the presidency , the 15 member states , the president of the commission , the commission itself , the president of the european parliament and a substantial part of this european parliament are agreed on an objective and on a strategic plan , the main group in parliament is deeply divided over what it wants and over which path it should follow in the european union .
we urge the portuguese presidency and the commission to continue in their determination to fight for us to be able to create our own model from the opportunities offered by globalisation , so that the wealth generated can be used to combat poverty and can be more evenly distributed to ensure that social cohesion , full employment and sustainable development will be the outcome - in ten years ' time , but things should steadily improve up to then - of this meeting in lisbon .
secondly , social security .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i feel that it was very important for this debate to be held and to have heard your opinions , your contributions , your points of view and your criticisms for , without such criticism , europe cannot grow .
by setting very clear goals for fiscal policies , in order to gear them towards employment , or by setting goals so that the commission can assess the sustainability of social security policies up to 2020 , the lisbon european council has also established a new social agenda in europe and will even enable the next european council to focus on something that for years the european council has not wished to focus on - a european social agenda .
what is significant is the fact that this was done without any scandal , without any great controversy , and in an absolutely consensual way .
europe is like a huge seed , and its economic strength lies precisely in its tradition of operating in all sectors , both new and traditional , and excelling in the traditional sectors .
this applies to both new and old economies as well .
thank you very much , mr president of the commission .
the cairo summit instituted a mechanism for global dialogue at the highest political level which will enable us to add a new dimension to eu-africa relations which have , until now , been limited either to bilateral frameworks or to regional platforms for dialogue , be they the acp mechanism or the barcelona process .
the first sure indication of its success and of its historic importance was the level of representation of european and african countries : 58 countries - 45 from africa and 13 from europe - were represented at head of state or government level .
this ensured that all issues of common interest to the european union and africa were addressed , and on an equal footing , since both sides had the opportunity to express their concerns and also their common objectives .
in this context , all issues covered by these concerns and objectives - economic , political and development issues - were discussed in a frank and straightforward way .
in economic terms , understanding was reached on the need to define policies which will enable african countries to gain maximum benefit from the liberalisation of trade throughout the world , thus reversing the current trend of consistently and progressively marginalising africa in world trade .
the commitment to reduce world poverty to half its present levels by 2015 was reiterated .
on the important issue of african debt , and despite the fact that at the summit a huge range of countries stated their national policies on this issue , it was stipulated that the bi-regional group of senior officials , which will in the first instance ensure that the summit ' s decisions are implemented , will prepare a report on the debt situation in african countries .
on the other hand , the african countries committed themselves to promote and respect human rights , to eliminate patterns of discrimination against women , to fully support the establishment of the international criminal court and to combat discrimination and intolerance .
other important issues such as education , aids and the environment were addressed under the theme of development , with the understanding that these are essential elements of the challenge of sustainable development in africa and of eradicating poverty .
the bi-regional group of senior officials will prepare a report for assessment at ministerial level of the viability of taking further action in this area .
the last part of the action plan concerns the monitoring mechanisms .
the summit was the first encounter at the highest political level between africa and the countries of the eu .
it will add a new strategic and global dimension to the existing relationship between africa and europe and will bring that relationship to the same level as that we already have with asia and latin america .
the eu has a comparative advantage in regional integration that africa can benefit from , and we will ensure it benefits from it in the coming years , when the organisation of regional economic cooperation will dominate the agenda in africa .
the summit provided an opportunity for useful discussions on debt and other bilateral problems .
it is regrettable that the civil society forum could not take place in cairo but representatives of the forum were received in cairo in the margins of the summit .
the follow-up to the summit should enable the eu to round off its existing relationship with africa with a high-level relationship covering , in particular , a continental approach to political and security questions as well as economic issues .
with the new eu-acp convention being successfully concluded a few months ago and with the eu-south africa cooperation agreement now being implemented as planned , we have two very important additions to the meda cooperation and the barcelona process .
this means that we have not only the perspective of this cairo summit but also a well-established basis to continue , widen and improve our daily work .
the final cairo plan of action is an excellent document if we can now turn words and good intentions into concrete actions .
the top priority of regional cooperation and integration should have strong political benefits as well as trade ones .
many of these countries will need both time and financial help to compete in the world market , but these countries must understand there is no other option in this new era of globalisation .
the oau must be given international support to continue its work and the peace initiatives must come from the african countries themselves .
where peace is achieved , help must be given for demobilisation and reintegration , and the use of child soldiers below the age of 18 must be banned .
ethnic cleansing has been the horror of the last 25 years , and religious wars destroy the very fabric of a country .
this summit was a start but much has to be done to turn words into reality , and we , members of this house , must be part of that new world .
i would like to concentrate on my view that poverty eradication in africa must begin with children and the realisation of children ' s rights .
the cairo summit will be followed up by another forum in dakar on basic education .
therefore , we need to ensure that girls in particular have equal access at least to educational advantage .
the eu should put its political will behind universal primary education by the year 2015 .
julius nyrere , one of africa ' s most famous teachers , in those post-independence , optimistic days , said education is not a way of escaping poverty , it is a way of fighting it .
some of you may be aware that julius nyrere spent his spare time translating shakespeare into swahili .
the benefits for us all will be seen in increased child life expectancy , cuts in population growth and improvements in farm production .
the purpose of the summit was to open a dialogue between the eu and african countries .
i believe that the final document will prove to be an important reference point in connection with further cooperation between the eu and africa .
this is due firstly to the fact that the document in itself constitutes an important signal about increased cooperation between the eu and africa and about the fact that we have not forgotten africa , and secondly to the document ' s emphasis upon the interrelatedness of democracy , politics and economics and upon the fact that africa ' s integration and development should not , therefore , be seen in divided and piecemeal terms but as integral parts of a single whole .
on the contrary , we affirm the political need to restore balance in the relations between african and the european union .
after having plundered the natural resources of africa very widely , and in fact continuing to do so , we must cancel our historical debt to them by cancelling their current debt to our banks .
this would enable us to pursue relations on a sounder basis .
we are asking african countries to respect democratic principles , but we are perpetuating antidemocratic practices in order to guarantee our own financial interests , in the style of elf or total , in a number of countries .
for how can one expect a country in which a quarter of its young people are dying from aids every year to have a booming economy ?
i even think that it was the difficulties along the way that led to the idea that the event should be held in the first place , orthe formal meeting and the group photo , and not what could and should result from it , with a view to establishing a strategy for this partnership on a new footing .
it is obvious that with this kind of outlook and in the light of the enormous problems and shortfalls facing most african countries in terms of the economy , the environment , health , infrastructure , conflict resolution and poverty , amongst others , it is difficult , if not impossible , to cement a genuine partnership which is effective and lasting .
the result was famine in ethiopia , algeria ' s agriculture destroyed , not to mention guinea under sekou toure .
the result was a permanent situation of coup d ' etat , even in the ivory coast .
all in all , from socialist africa to ultraliberal africa , from the european development fund to the world bank , from the summits in bujumbura , addis-ababa , nairobi , casablanca , and now , on 3 april , cairo , it is always the same assessment , the same threesome of poverty , epidemic and massacre .
even so , on 4 january , the un found the final solution , or the miracle cure : a proportion of the 800 million africans would have to emigrate .
the logical thing to do today is to apply to africa what has worked elsewhere , what has worked wonders in our countries , in the united states , in europe , the solution which in our countries created heavy industry , agriculture , the textile industry , the solution which in our countries created growth and sustainable development .
this is a great project , mr president , on the scale of humanity as a whole , and humanity needs both africans and europeans .
mr president , the european union has over the past 25 years invested a great deal of time and effort in development and cooperation .
at the same time , africa needs sound budget management combined with effective social policy , good education policy and sound health care .
if the africa summit in cairo has led to this kind of realism , then we have created more than just a good atmosphere and we are probably on the right track .
mr president , the recent euro-african summit has given rise to concern , even vexation , but at the same time , it has also given rise to satisfaction and hope .
there was vexation on discovering that certain ngo meetings - the fora of civil society - which should have taken place in cairo , sponsored by the european commission itself , could not take place because of communication problems or the veto , still unclarified , of some part or other of the organisation of the summit .
however , i said at the beginning that there were also positive aspects to this cairo summit which were cause for satisfaction and hope .
there was satisfaction at the fact that the conference was able to take place at all - which in itself is a great thing - and we should therefore congratulate the portuguese presidency and commissioner nielson , whose efforts helped to overcome the difficulties , intrigues and lazy defeatism of many people who assumed that this summit would be suspended , although it was going to fill an unjustifiable vacuum in the external relations of the european union .
however , a summit of this type should be an important source of hope , especially if it is not an isolated event but a first step in a process which we must set to work on immediately , in the expectation , furthermore , that relations between the european union and africa are going to change shape .
i am not impressed by the current pattern of african partners requesting aid in order to resolve their problems , as a result of which the european partners merely grant a part of that aid and little more .
mr president , taking this approach , we will vote in favour of the good resolution with which this debate will conclude .
the document is also signed by countries where human rights are being violated on a massive scale , where women are discriminated against , where the little funding that is available is used to massacre other population groups and where corruption has taken on almost ineradicable proportions .
mr president , the first eu-africa summit was an important event and had a great deal of potential for taking meaningful steps to reduce the marginalisation of african countries .
firstly , neither the european parliament nor the eu-acp joint assembly was invited to participate in the summit .
secondly , it is very sad that civil society was not able to have a greater input into the meeting .
the ngos from the eu and african countries took this summit very seriously and it was a missed opportunity not to engage in more meaningful dialogue with them .
civil society has a key role to play in africa ' s development process .
what we have is a plan full of warm words and good intentions but short on firm commitments , in particular on trade issues .
while it is nice to recall the eu ' s important decision to grant duty-free access for essentially all products , it would have been even more significant to have gone beyond the famous " essentially all " to include those products of real importance to the poorest countries , such as agricultural goods .
a majority of african countries are overwhelmingly dependent on just one or two commodities for the bulk of their foreign exchange earnings .
mr president , wanting to achieve relations on the basis of partnership between the old continent and africa means first of all putting a halt to the present system which operates to benefit the great powers and the corrupt elite of the south .
the continent of africa is ravaged by epidemics such as the aids epidemic and by wars that are conspicuous , or sometimes forgotten .
the result is there is never enough fish and there are increasing numbers of people fighting over the leftovers .
in all its negotiations , the european union should also demand fighting against corruption , certainly , and for democracy but , in return , african countries can also demand that the friends of le pen , haider and martinez should stop making regular racist attacks on their populations resident in europe .
finally , mr president , europe too made its wealth from colonialism and slavery .
europe thus has a moral debt towards africa .
but how much more credible would words such as democracy and the interest of the people have been if those people had actually been represented .
in that sense , cairo was not a euro-african summit but more like a summit of elites .
it is also significant insofar as its conclusions could not have been more feeble .
it has been noted that it had been prepared hurriedly , as a cosmetic exercise , without taking responsibility for the past and without preparing comprehensive and solid programmes on the future of relations between the european union and africa .
it is truly illogical to lament the constant instability and warfare , when there is a real battle for power and control of resources in africa which , in turn , increases the cycle of poverty and sends waves of immigrants towards europe .
it does not help matters if , instead of attending working meetings , one prefers to talk to gadaffi for 10 minutes .
i think that we , the european parliament , must continue to denounce these national solo efforts and increase the responsibility of member states ' governments .
it has been stated that we want to make a large contribution and take part in a much more far-reaching debt burden initiative , provided we can link this in with social development .
i hope that our budget for 2001 - and the commissioner is only too aware how heavy this weighs on me , because i am the budget rapporteur for that component - will also accommodate some of these promises .
if 45 million children in africa have never seen a schoolroom before and if we managed to double the education budget next year - not the budget as a whole but if we simply shifted some figures around - then this would be a welcome bonus .
however , as a member of the committee on development and cooperation , i must express my reservations at the lack of support from the european parliament .
i also condemn the fact that agenda 2000 did not tackle the issue of the future responsibilities of the european union towards developing countries .
parliament has tried to tackle this issue several times in the past , apparently without ever achieving tangible results .
mr president , ordinary people in most african countries are poorer today than when their countries became independent .
such desperate people cannot think of democracy and human rights in the way we do from our houses and leafy suburbs in the west .
we here in this assembly offer these people open and free access to our eu markets .
well , let it be said that there were even problems in including references to the acp group in the final conclusions .
firstly , because this was seen as the first major rapprochement between africa and europe and not all africa ' s countries are acp countries .
there was therefore a problem in accommodating within one summit , which i repeat was a summit of equals , not a summit of parties of a different status , an institution which the other co-sponsoring organisation did not have .
when we prepare the next summit , the 2003 summit , we will certainly look at ways of strengthening the european parliament ' s participation in a framework that must take account of the other party , given that the other party exists .
another important point is debt .
i would remind you of the commitment given by member states in relation to the world ' s highly indebted poor countries to reduce and even cancel their debt , not forgetting the union ' s eur 1 000 million contribution to this programme .
it is the first time that the european union has agreed to discuss the problem of their indebtedness with all the african countries , in an institutional framework outside the international financial organisations .
the african countries considered this to be one of the most important milestones of this summit .
i should tell you that the aim of the portuguese presidency of the european union was to do something for africa , not just because we had done something for other continents or regions , such as latin america and asia , but also because other countries or groups of countries , such as the united states , japan and even china had begun to do so before us .
we are working to review the mediterranean strategy , to produce a rigorous draft of the euro-mediterranean charter for peace and stability and also to review the meda ii regulation .
we held the mediterranean forum in funchal and we will be holding an informal ministerial meeting in lisbon on the barcelona process , specifically to determine its good and bad points , on what needs to be improved and to prepare the summit which will be held under the french presidency .
of course , we did not resolve all the problems of the african continent overnight , but a step needed to be taken , a step towards including africa in the european agenda .
mrs kinnock mentioned the forthcoming meeting in dakar on basic education .
as part of our preparations for that meeting i have gone through the bulk of what we are doing on primary education in africa and i am happy to say that i am in a position to express something positive about what i have seen in the commission .
this is not to say that we could not do more but it is much better than the picture in general .
in absolute terms , our focusing on kosovo and other activities has not meant a reduction in what we actually do in africa .
in relative terms this is the case , but we have been able to shield africa from direct reductions in the volume of what we are doing .
if we look at total official development assistance , globally it has in fact decreased .
against that background it is a privilege to represent the european union internationally in this field because we have not been part of that downward trend .
this parliament , our budget , and our activities stand out as a sort of corrective measure to the global trend .
the eur 680 million , which is our contribution as a donor , not as a creditor , will all be directed to the african development bank earmarked in the special trust fund in the hipc initiative in order to bail out africa and make it possible for the african development bank to continue servicing the poor countries in africa .
we are doing quite a lot and the problem now is to what extent the g7 countries - who started up the hipc ii initiative in cologne last year - will deliver , not just as donors but in their more narrowly defined role as creditors .
mr zimmerling mentioned the problem of nigeria and getting money back .
this should be part of international economic governance .
it was of real importance that the heads of state and governments spent two days together .
they certainly developed quite well in those two days .
that concludes the debate .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
external relations package the next item is the commission communication on the external relations package .
mr president , we discussed a number of issues in the commission today , including the broad economic policy guidelines which have been the subject of a statement by my colleague commissioner solbes elsewhere in parliament during the course of the afternoon .
briefly though , i will first of all mention our communication on election observation and assistance , which we will now be publishing and which i will look forward to discussing with parliament over the coming weeks and months .
we have spent eur 150 million on this important activity .
it is now clearly a first- pillar activity following the adoption of the regulations , which provide a legal basis for human rights and democratisation activity .
as members of parliament will recognise , the communication invites both parliament and the council to work with us on a more coordinated approach .
it suggests that we need greater coherence in what we are doing and i am looking forward to hearing the views of members of parliament on the document , which i hope they will regard as an important and useful contribution to a debate which is going to become more important , not less important , over the coming years .
it is the rapid reaction facility , which we have been discussing for some time and on which we have come to some conclusions .
my colleague , commissioner nielson , was talking a moment or two ago about the eu-african summit in cairo just over a week ago .
it is true that the president of the commission , my colleagues pascal lamy and poul nielson and myself were all confronted during that summit with a litany of complaints about the slow delivery of european union assistance .
but the traditional legislative approach to community business is also sometime ill-suited to the fast changing realities in external relations .
this is particularly true for conflict prevention and it is particularly true for crisis management efforts .
we will present our proposals in the next few weeks .
the rapid reaction facility is something that in our judgement we can do fairly quickly if we have the support of parliament and if we have the support of the council .
i hope that support will be forthcoming because we have time to lose .
the helsinki european council called on us , in the context of development of the union 's crisis management structures within the esdp , to set up a mechanism for rapid reaction .
inertia is only part of our problem today .
the rapid reaction facility responds to these needs .
it is intended to allow us to draw without delay on existing community resources and expertise to address specific crisis situations , complementing the valuable work already undertaken by echo in the humanitarian field .
fourth , the management of the rapid reaction facility will be the responsibility of a small team , the crisis coordination unit in the directorate-general for external relations .
the added value of the rapid reaction facility is speed and flexibility in community intervention in crisis situations .
it will help us to overcome procedural hurdles which have slowed us down in the past and it will allow for the combination of several instruments within a single action and for a single purpose .
it will allow us to react in time and if necessary , to take the initiative in urgent circumstances .
if it needs to be pursued beyond the immediate time frame of the crisis situation , it should be taken over as soon as practicable by the regular geographic or thematic community instrument most suited to manage it in the longer term .
that is why the commission proposes a rather modest budget allocation for the rapid reaction facility : about eur 30 million for this year and eur 40 million for subsequent years .
my own favourite economist and guru , jane jacobs , points out that everything is disappointing in practice .
i think members of this house will have sometimes been frustrated to discover that , on the basis of european union funding , people from other countries , even north america , and some other countries are getting all the credit and none is coming to the european taxpayer who pays for all these things .
image is important and we have addressed it in this document .
another factor is the participation of the european union under the umbrella of other international actors .
anybody who thinks that we do not need one should just try talking to our officials who were operating pillar 4 in unmik in kosovo .
it is one of the oldest saws in the book that it is incomparably more expensive to fight a war than to keep the peace .
very often what is required to keep the peace or to prevent a crisis is not just doing things generously but doing them quickly and generously .
we are currently in the middle of a conciliation procedure for the late payment directive , in other words , this is not just a problem in external relations ; it is also a problem within europe .
the idea is that the late payment directive could also be applied in these areas .
firstly , although i recognise that he wants to keep the budget small and use existing instruments , is he satisfied that the budget in category 4 is sufficient for the special rapid reaction unit to be able to carry out its objectives over the course of a financial year ?
the high representative and his colleagues in the secretariat are bending their best efforts to try to achieve that at the moment .
we have had problems which should not have arisen because we have not always known in sufficient detail exactly what member states , as well as the european commission , are up to .
so we need to work more closely and in a more coordinated way .
on the relationship between the rapid reaction facility and the special envoys who are , of course , responsible to the council - even though we are responsible for the budget - we will want to work closely with them .
there are some in particular whose activities bear on the sort of things we might find ourselves wanting to support through the rapid reaction facility , like the work being done by one of our special envoys in the great lakes region in africa .
i do not think that the sums of money that we are talking about are going to give us budgetary problems .
we can manage eur 30 or 40 million .
the appalling floods in mozambique were a classic case for intervention by echo as a humanitarian intervention .
it is very difficult to compartmentalise these crises .
but the honourable member is entirely right to say that mozambique was a demonstration of the extent to which the various forms of intervention are interwoven and that it is very difficult to make precise categories out of different forms of support .
the question of coherence is very important .
but one has to bear in mind two important facts about echo .
i very much hope that , without breaking down some important distinctions , we can ensure that the community 's various instruments , which involve the expenditure of quite substantial amounts of assistance , are moving together in the same direction .
the problems in the great lakes region cover a number of countries .
it would be useful if you could link these problems on a regional basis and act from that point .
i believe that we should be looking much more constructively at regional solutions in a lot of other areas as well , not least some of our trade relationships with other countries .
this facility has to be used not just on a bilateral basis but in helping groups of countries with what are often common political problems , as well as environmental and other problems .
we have a situation in ethiopia where we knew for the past three years that there was a famine coming .
the committee on development and cooperation and myself have time and time again warned echo and the commission that something should be done about this .
i feel rather strongly that we have managed over the years , despite problems from time to time , to increase our ability to get food and other assistance to people in the most appallingly difficult circumstances .
we have managed to increase our ability to deliver humanitarian assistance .
there is a food crisis in the horn of africa .
so i hope i catch your eye tomorrow in the debate and make some of these points .
however , i have to say that i was dealing with these problems 13 or 14 years ago and , alas , much less has happened to the good than one would have liked .
therefore , we will be working from seven until eight .
the first part , questions to the commission , will last 30 minutes .
we will dedicate 10 minutes to each commissioner , instead of the usual 20 minutes .
the commission shares the view that its participation in meetings of the council and all its bodies is part of the eu acquis and an essential element of the european union institutional framework .
excluding the commission from work in this area would be tantamount to accepting the emergence of a fourth pillar in the treaty , contrary to the helsinki conclusions .
but although the commission has a right to attend all working structures in the council , it does not have an obligation to do so .
in cases like these , i think that it is not only natural but in everyone 's interests that the commission should participate in the meeting in order to contribute to the overall coherence and effectiveness of european union policies and actions .
may i ask him to confirm that the commission 's choice not to participate in certain meetings will be taken , as he put it , on a ' meeting by meeting ' basis , not a structure by structure basis , depending on what is being discussed .
the question is whether the choice is meeting by meeting or structure by structure and we have made it gently and courteously but firmly clear what our view is of the matter .
secondly , has the commission drawn any conclusions as to the security implications of its participation in the military committee ?
thank you very much , mr patten .
question no 32 by ( h-0293 / 00 ) : subject : ability of dialysis-dependent people to travel in the eu the free movement of member states ' citizens in the eu is a fundamental right .
in order to ease the situation of temporarily resident dialysis patients and rectify the possible lack of clarity in the definition of emergency treatment , the member states have agreed on special rules which are laid down in decision no 163 of the administrative commission of the european communities on social security for migrant workers of 31 may 1996 .
it is not therefore up to the commission to intervene here and to influence national rules on the modus operandi of hospitals and clinics in the member states .
however , if such an application is submitted , it will be examined in accordance with the procedure provided for in regulation no 2082 / 92 on certificates of special character for agricultural products and foodstuffs .
we must endeavour to allay this concern , and i therefore feel , should the manufacturers of a member state so request , of course , that within the white paper on food safety and in other ways , the commission should consider protecting chocolate which is produced according to traditional methods without additional vegetable oil as a high quality european product , and refuse to set the lowest level as the standard , for this may be permitted by the market , but it is not acceptable in terms of the quality of the produce and the lives of our consumers .
mr president , mr napoletano , as i said , no chocolate producer has yet demonstrated any interest in this form of protection .
however , in order to clarify matters somewhat as you have requested , i should point out to you that the regulation which i quoted makes provision for two possible forms of legal protection for names .
the commissioner actually answered my question in the second part of his answer .
we take note of your statement in favour of good chocolate , mrs banotti .
question no 35 by ( h-0307 / 00 ) : subject : children 's rights given the reports of sexual abuse , of child prostitution and the high number of young children living on the streets of the candidate countries from eastern europe , what measures are being taken by the commission to ensure within the framework of the present accession negotiations , that children 's rights and child protection are a priority and that the welfare of children is taken into account when preparing these countries for future membership of the european union ?
this is not a problem specific to the candidate countries of the european union .
it is quite clearly a development problem , a problem which stems from poverty , a problem which stems from social neglect and , i believe , a problem which stems from the indifference or lack of decisiveness in our societies to really do something to fight this terrible manifestation of child abuse .
allow me to tell you what we can do within the framework of accession negotiations .
the most important of these is the joint action to fight the trade in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children , on which a decision was reached on 24 february 1997 .
programmes such as phare and meda and the relevant specific programmes relating to justice and internal affairs such as grotius , stop , odysseus and falcone also offer the opportunity to support countries seeking to join the union in this respect and support is indeed given .
the following programmes are relevant to child protection : first the daphne programme approved on 24 january 2000 .
the whole problem could not have arisen and would not exist were there no demand for this horrendous supply in our rich societies , including in the member states of the european union .
the fact that something has been broadcast on the bbc does not automatically mean that it is true .
it is therefore difficult for me to answer your specific question as to whether children are being bred in romania for the purpose of sexual abuse with a clear yes or no .
what i can say is that , as parliament ' s hearing on the subject of children in romania has demonstrated over recent weeks in brussels , the commission is doing absolutely everything in its power to improve the lot of children in romania .
i assure the honourable member that we are doing far more than is our duty and , in fact , far more that what is actually politically permissible within the framework of accession negotiations .
i do , however , admit that we are doing so because , in my view , it is also a human rights issue which must be considered in accordance with the political criteria governing accession .
in the area of police cooperation , the commission wishes to remind honourable members that in 1996 europol was given a mandate by the council to combat trafficking in human beings , with the basic aim of ensuring that all networks of traffickers working in europe would be closed down .
finally , the commission also wishes to emphasise that through the stop and daphne programmes , it has already funded numerous cooperation and training projects in the area of combating trafficking in human beings , specifically against the trafficking of women for sexual exploitation , and through these programmes has brought together the relevant bodies , namely police and judicial authorities , non-governmental organisations and social services .
the commission intends in the course of 2000 to present the european parliament with a new legal basis for the stop programme for the period 2001-2005 .
under this new legal basis for stop , we will also be able to fund projects for combating trafficking in human beings submitted by non-governmental organisations and by public authorities from the applicant countries themselves .
lastly , concerning the specific situation in albania , the commission acknowledges that networks trafficking in human beings originating in the balkans represent a major concern , due to the increasing number of cases being seen in european countries .
we therefore acknowledge the fact that under the stability pact for the balkans , priority must be given to combating trafficking in human beings .
i can even answer the honourable member by saying that a group of experts is already working on identifying the best actions for combating the networks of traffickers in human beings and that i myself had an opportunity recently , on a mission to greece , to exchange ideas with the greek minister for home affairs , in order enlist the cooperation of his government in establishing these actions and priorities , bearing in mind the action that greece is already developing bilaterally on the trafficking of human beings in the balkans .
in fact , establishing normal economic and social conditions throughout the balkans is an essential instrument in combating social exclusion and thus combating trafficking in human beings .
in any event , the commission acknowledges that there are no completely reliable statistics on the volume of the annual traffic in human beings , and i can tell you that we have been working very hard on improving the coordination and circulation of information between the member states ' police forces and europol so that we have a more accurate and realistic picture of the size of the problem .
with regard to campaigns , i must tell the honourable member that the commission ' s assessment is that the prevention campaigns have been successful in the sense that they have significantly not only raised awareness of the risks and the dangers of trafficking in human beings in the countries of origin , but they have also enjoyed the cooperation and commitment of the police and judicial authorities in the applicant countries .
therefore , in application of the said recommendations , we will allow just one supplementary question per subject and only 30 seconds , which may extend to 35 , but no more , in order to reformulate the questions .
mr president , mrs izquierdo rojo , reconstruction in kosovo and the stabilisation of south-eastern europe are among the most important tasks facing the european union over the next few years .
the resolution on agenda 2000 was taken , i would remind you , on the same day that the war in kosovo broke out .
in the interinstitutional agreement on the financial perspectives concluded between parliament , the council and the commission in may 1999 , parliament and the council decided to call on the commission , in view of developments in the balkans , to submit the necessary budgetary proposals , if necessary in the form of a proposal to revise the financial perspectives .
in the external aid area , on the other hand , the figures in the financial perspectives would have resulted in a reduction in expenditure next year in comparison with this year and i think that everyone is agreed that this does not really reflect the actual situation and actual requirements .
the commission therefore decided to propose a redeployment of eur 300 billion to the budgetary authority so that the increase in agricultural expenditure would be correspondingly lower .
all of this demonstrates that agenda 2000 has been nothing but a great firework display .
mr patten and mr nielson have come to the conclusion that a total of eur 1.6 billion could be redeployed in the external aid area for south-eastern europe and i think that we really must acknowledge that this step has been taken .
i should also point out that the commission will propose that even the expenditure budgeted for promoting and developing the countryside be increased to its ceiling next year .
question no 38 by ( h-0287 / 00 ) : subject : structural measures to overcome delays in payments the eu budget is failing in that commitment authorisations are not being adequately matched by payments .
questions to mr kinnock mr president , the commission is doing its utmost to settle proper payment applications within 60 days .
the commission submitted a working paper to the budgetary authority last year in which it made a comprehensive analysis of developments , broken down by sector and underlying factors , and suggested remedies .
however , the commission is unable to subscribe to the honourable member ' s view that delays in implementing community projects robs them of any legitimate purpose ; on the contrary .
this applied to a sum of around eur 1 billion in 1999 .
the commission has discussed precisely this today as part of the debate on the revision of the financial regulation and i can assure you that we intend to change the rules in order to tighten up the time scale .
thank you very much , mrs schreyer .
in his question the honourable member is probably referring to actions 57 and 58 of the reform strategy action plan which , amongst other things , specifies commitment to making proposals for the establishment of an interinstitutional disciplinary board .
the commission will be presenting detailed proposals for the modernisation of disciplinary procedures and related arrangements in a consultative document which is scheduled for publication in october .
consultation on those proposals is a legal requirement and the views of parliament and member states , as well as those of the staff , will naturally be taken into account on all relevant matters , including the possible use of external expertise on the interinstitutional disciplinary board .
so far as whistle-blowing is concerned , and as the honourable member may know , we will be putting forward very comprehensive proposals for radical change in current arrangements which will , when they are implemented - hopefully with the assistance of this parliament as a legislature - provide the european union institutions with the best , fairest and most effective system for ensuring that the duty of officials to report their suspicions of wrong-doing will be fully accessible and made totally effective .
question no 41 by ( h-0342 / 00 ) : subject : institutional reform at present , ' whistle-blowing ' means that a member of the commission staff has to breach articles 12 and 17 of the staff regulations , accordingly , if someone does come forward as a whistle-blower , he / she will almost certainly be disciplined .
point 47 of your action plan makes reference to this situation but offers no remedy for it .
it follows that articles 12 and 17 of the staff regulations do not prevent staff from reporting wrong-doing either within the commission or to olaf .
in the white paper on reform and elsewhere , the commission has made direct commitments to reforms which will further improve rules related to the reporting of suspected wrong-doing .
the commission will present detailed proposals in a document scheduled for october of this year .
firstly , the development of the proposals relating to whistle-blowing will take full account of best practice in several of the member states .
the commission is acutely aware of the provision long established in nordic democracies , recently developed also in the public disclosure act in the united kingdom , and several other comparable pieces of legislation .
as far as mr van buitenen is concerned , he took up employment on 1 april in the directorate-general for health and consumer protection in luxembourg in a very responsible job , as the house would expect .
we thank vice-president kinnock for his replies .
as the authors are not present , questions nos 44 to 48 lapse .
question no 49 by ( h-0284 / 00 ) : subject : møllergardens vivaldi - a shetland pony the committee on petitions decided on 15 may 1997 to examine a case concerning the shetland pony , møllergardens vivaldi , from denmark , which the swedish authorities refused to register as a stallion in sweden .
the dispute between what i might describe as a courageous private breeder from one member state and a breeding association in another member state , reflects shortcomings in implementation by member states of both the spirit and letter of related community law , in particular directive 90 / 427 on zootechnical and genealogical conditions governing intra-community trade in equidae .
however , in the light of new information , the commission undertakes to take up the case again and to arrange for a zootechnical inspection mission , should this be required .
it is a matter costing an incredible amount of money .
it is not really the role of the commission to develop this issue further but it is doing so in the manner i have indicated in an effort to assist the private breeder who - i perfectly agree with you - should not be compelled to have to go through these steps to seek a result in this particular issue .
as i have indicated , in the light of new information , the commission undertakes to take up this case again and , if necessary , to arrange for a zootechnical inspection mission , should this be required .
we had group meetings ; i was watching the screen and you jumped from question 41 to 49 .
mrs mckenna , today ' s question time has been ratified by the plenary in this house .
i am therefore very sorry that we now have to conclude question time .
since the time allotted to questions to the commission has elapsed , questions nos 50 to 93 will be replied to in writing .
there had been no meeting of the association council between turkey and the union for three years and nor had there been any meeting of this kind after the deliberations and the criteria laid down in helsinki .
hence the importance of holding the screening procedure that is being prepared and the importance of turkey ' s commitment to incorporating the body of community legislation and also to respecting the copenhagen criteria .
in our political dialogue with the turkish delegation , we were able not only to assess the progress made , but also to comment on what we felt were shortcomings at institutional and judicial level and also in terms of the actual implementation of economic policies .
this progress in the bilateral relationship will have considerable influence on progress on this issue in the future , on the relationship between the two countries and will certainly contribute , as will these negotiations between the european union and turkey , to establishing a favourable framework and environment for a solution to the problem of cyprus .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i welcome today ' s debate as an opportunity to take stock , four months after the helsinki summit and in the run up to the association council which the president-in-office has already spoken about .
the copenhagen political criteria concern democracy , the rule of law , human rights and the protection of minorities .
the main element in this strategy of rapprochement will be the accession partnership which is currently being prepared and which will set out the short- and medium-term priorities which turkey must meet , in accordance with the copenhagen criteria , in the political , economic and community acquis areas .
we plan to submit the first accession partnership in the autumn of this year .
for example , 18 members of the pro-kurdish hadep party were sentenced to three years and nine months in prison and three leading members of hadep were taken into custody but then released shortly afterwards .
the three mayors who support hadep were released after the eu troika had expressed its serious concerns to the turkish government .
the commission seriously regrets that akin birdal , an advocate of the peaceful solution of conflict and human rights , has been thrown into jail once again .
i hope that turkey can cultivate social dialogue and an active labour market policy still further in order to underpin the adjustment process .
of course i shall continue to keep you informed of all aspects of these new endeavours .
mr president , mr president-in-office of the council , commissioner , your statements have reinforced a belief and an impression i have .
the public and private sector spokesmen we recently met in turkey all readily agreed on this .
my feeling is that certain representatives of the turkish people are discovering , as a result of december ' s decision , that accession to the union will mean not only drastic reform of their institutions , but also radical changes in mindsets .
this is reflected in the distrust shown , as the commissioner has just reported , towards european institutions in general and the representatives of the european parliament in particular .
firstly , there was the refusal of the request to visit leyla zana , which resulted in the postponement of the meeting of the joint european union-turkey parliamentary committee scheduled for 22 and 23 february .
then , on the same day , at a time when your rapporteur was in ankara , there was the arrest of three kurdish mayors from the south-eastern region .
lastly , on 28 march , there was the arrest and reimprisonment of akin birdal , president of the turkish association for the defence of human rights , at a time when a delegation from this parliament was visiting turkey .
this is what parliament will once again underline in the resolution , which is to be submitted for the approval of the members next thursday , urging the turkish government and the political parties of turkey to turn to good account the constitutional review that is currently in progress in order to implement pressing reforms , in line with the helsinki agreements , that will enable the turkish state to guarantee the democratic rights that we consider essential .
the ball is in turkey ' s court .
it is up to turkey to decide whether the first obstacles encountered on this new road are to prove insurmountable or not .
we meps are particularly pleased because most of us - and this cut across all groups in the house - expressed our scepticism as to whether the helsinki resolution was the right resolution at the time .
he has spoken of democracy , the rule of law and the protection of minorities as three basic elements in the expectations which the european union , the commission , the council and the european parliament have of turkey and which they have formulated .
four months after helsinki , commissioner , i can say on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists that we fully subscribe to your view that the climate surrounding relations has improved but no progress has been made on the three points which you listed .
we in the european parliament expect far greater efforts than those made so far and we are assuming that what we are saying in this debate here will not go unheeded .
mr president , when turkey joins the european union the impact and the benefits will be considerable .
the eu will then have to adjust , and in a welcoming way .
the arrest and imprisonment of hadep leaders like sakharov prize-winner leyla zana and human rights campaigner akin birdal is an impediment to turkey 's progress to the eu .
the former president of the turkish human rights association , akin birdal , is again under arrest , despite the fact that he requires medical care .
unfortunately , he must serve another six months of a one-year sentence .
we realise that the measures needed to guarantee the permanent democratisation of turkish society cannot be introduced overnight .
however , a number of small steps are urgently needed in order to demonstrate that turkey is prepared to take the path trodden by spain , portugal and greece .
i should like to list a few examples .
then the former and present leaders of hadep , murat bozlak and ahmet turan demir , were sentenced to three years and nine months in prison together with 18 other members of hadep .
having been there , my personal impression is that the people are longing for peace and democracy .
mr president , all of us who have visited turkey recently realise that the picture is very complex .
there is a very lively debate in the country .
that is what is working against democratic fighters such as akin birdal .
but we also see the reformists who know very well what has to be done according to the copenhagen criteria .
one party leader said to us that at least 65 articles of the constitution and penal code had to be changed .
the first was that nothing will prevail without a strong civil society in turkey .
people we met from civil society also said they appreciated the help from the european union , but that some of it was slow .
mr president , the question of whether or not turkey belongs to europe is not primarily a geographical issue , nor is it primarily an economic one .
the deciding factor , however , will be whether or not turkey will subscribe to a european set of values in which human rights , democracy and the protection of minorities are guaranteed .
the political solution to the kurdish issue would not only liberate the kurds , it would also take a heavy weight from turkey ' s shoulders .
whether or not turkey will join may therefore depend largely on how it will fare in matters pertaining to human rights , democracy and the protection of minorities .
i should like to point out that in helsinki , greece withdrew its reservations and turkey became a candidate country .
i just wonder who have they been trying to liberate for the last 25 years , and from whom ?
the structures are superb , we can all agree on that .
the turks tell us they need time , they need a great deal of time , because this reform can only be achieved one step at a time .
i told you that numerous fellow members here in this very house , in the european parliament , were prepared to allow as much time as they needed , 200 years , 400 years , even more .
but i belong to a group which enthusiastically helped turkey to achieve candidate status , not just so that turkey could be a candidate but to give turkey a real chance to become a member and start negotiations .
the unequivocal shortcomings in this area contrast with statements by prime minister ecevit to the effect that turkey may be ready to start accession negotiations in 2004 .
however , one has the impression that anti-european forces within the army and the administration are behind the recent arrests and the new offensive against the pkk in northern iraq in order to prevent turkey from moving closer to europe .
this demonstrates in retrospect that the concessions made to turkey in helsinki were perhaps premature and that the strategy towards this country , which is so important to western security , needs to be reviewed .
mr president , ladies and gentlemen , i have visited turkey three times in the last six months , once before and twice after the helsinki resolution .
what ecevit said to us was that there were several kurdish dialects and that he could even imagine kurdish being used as an official language in turkey under certain conditions .
my last point is this : of course we are also aware in this house that the question of turkey , including its relations with greece , is bound up with the cyprus issue .
turkey will not be admitted to the european union without the european parliament ' s approval .
turkey has merely been recognised as a candidate .
in fact , as long ago as 1963 , the ankara agreement established the possibility that turkey might join the european union , with the association agreement to evolve through an initial stage , a transitional stage and a final stage .
the commission is involved in bilateral discussions with turkey in order to provide it with information on the acquis communautaire .
however , something that can be acknowledged today is that , contrary to what used to happen in crisis situations , when turkey was always tempted to use military power or to use extremist internal forces , thanks to the guidelines and the frameworks that were laid down in helsinki , this strategy has contributed in turkey to the consolidation of pro-european forces , which will , of course , have to develop a completely pro-european programme in terms of constitutional reform , political changes and new legislation .
i have drawn the turkish government ' s , the turkish parties ' and the turkish parliament ' s attention to the role of the european parliament in ensuring that no political compromises are made with candidates during access negotiations and in turkey ' s preparations for access negotiations which contradict the copenhagen criteria .
but i do know one thing and that is that a debate is currently taking place in turkey of which we only hear a part , a debate which will decide on the fate of the country and , partly on the fate of europe too .
the debate is closed .
it would , we hope , give us a new tough set of rules that would ensure that genetically modified crops and other gmo products are used throughout europe in a safe and sensible way that ensures protection of the environment and guarantees the safety of public health .
the first and the most important is the issue of producer liability .
in other words , under the terms of the amendments , companies would be required to take out insurance to cover any possible damage to human health or the environment caused by gmos and could be sued if their crops escaped and created super-wheats or contaminated organic crops or if gm crops were found to damage human health .
i hope that tomorrow my colleagues will renew their support , as they did at first reading , for the demands for strong new limits on the use of gmos containing genes with resistance to antibiotics .
tomorrow we may take a softer line , but nevertheless we want to see action in this area .
other measures that i think we need - and on which i would seek the support of the parliament tomorrow - include new measures to restrict the dangers of the cross-breeding of gmo plants with naturally occurring wild relatives .
here we need to go to at least as far and perhaps beyond the measures agreed in the bio-safety protocol in montreal in january .
not just the industry but also friends of the earth and greenpeace have given their backing to various aspects of parliament 's report .
they have supported us in continuing to press the council of ministers to agree on new gmo rules on licensing as quickly as possible , to bring to an end the de facto moratorium on new gmo commercial approvals , which has been in operation since the commission published its proposal almost two years ago .
that should give biotechnology companies and others involved in the industry a clear idea of the rules that they have adhere to and consequently a more transparent and predictable regime .
that can be only good for the future development of this new technology within the european union .
at the same time , i would hope that our governments will be able to assure their consumers and their people that gmos released into the environment anywhere in europe will meet the much more stringent standards that we are fixing here in parliament tomorrow and that the public concerns regarding the protection of human health and the environment from the dangers of gmo inventions have been properly addressed .
and i hope one of the significant non-legislative outcomes of this process will be a shift in the balance of power in the approval and control of gmo crops and food in favour of the public .
for the biotechnology industry that can only be to the good .
i even have mixed feelings about the announcements which we heard last week on the almost complete decoding of the human genome because i think that we do not yet have enough strict rules in the european union on the application of biotechnology to human beings in this way .
i think it is a very competent piece of work , and i think some important improvements have been made to the common position .
if insurance cannot be taken out to cover such circumstances , then the risk in granting a licence is too great .
i hope we shall see the adoption of these amendments designed to tighten up on the common position .
mr president , i would like to stress that this is a debate on procedural questions regarding the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms , or gmos .
thirdly , we would welcome a streamlined procedure that offers security to both consumers and producers and , as far as we are concerned , better harmonisation throughout the european union .
we , too , would like to congratulate the diligent rapporteur on this report .
mr president , tomorrow ' s vote will be a litmus test of parliament ' s responsibility and credibility .
this means that we shall be voting in favour of most , but not all , of the proposals in the bowe report .
mr president , the proposal for a directive on procedures for the authorisation of genetically modified organisms has been returned to this house for second reading , even though events since the first reading have done nothing but heighten the fears that we originally expressed .
on 11 february 1999 , at first reading , we opposed this proposal since we considered that it in no way controlled the risks that gmos pose to the environment and to animal and human health and that a straightforward application of the precautionary principle should have resulted if not in the definitive prohibition of the release of these organisms , at least in a moratorium lasting several years .
we are thus delighted that the council has underlined this principle in the common position .
both in the main body of the directive itself , notably in article 1 , and in its application , the precautionary principle has been accorded an important role when it comes to weighing it up against economic interests .
i mainly have the restriction of the simplified procedure and the attention to gmo traceability in mind .
the biotechnology debate requires an integral ethical approach .
mr president , this is a debate about plant research and plant protection from research .
it is a debate about the potential of gmos for good and their potential for risk , and how you manage that risk .
but we must respond to public concern about the potential and unknown dangers to our environment , to our food chain and to our health .
thirdly , we must build on the montreal protocol as far as the export of gmos is concerned , and this should be done on the basis of mutual agreement and transparency .
fourthly , as many members have said , we must ensure liability ; but it is a question of whether we need any greater liability than applies to other environmental risks .
secondly , the commitment to international agreements .
amendment no 1 refers to the montreal protocol and the need to defend biosafety and the consultation of and request for authorisation from non-eu countries for exports .
thirdly , the civil liability clause , which is clearly necessary for those who are responsible for the release of these genetically modified organisms which may have effects on health or the environment .
in the short time available , i appeal to the commission and , indeed , parliament to urgently expedite the conclusions necessary to allay consumer fears concerning the public health , environmental and ethical aspects of a technology which has the potential to make a significant contribution to food production and public health .
an indication of the potential of genetic research to make a positive contribution to food production is demonstrated by the very recent announcement by monsanto of a significant breakthrough on the genetic structure of rice , which is the staple food on which millions in the developing world depend and about which there is considerable concern with regard to the continuity of supply .
we totally agree with the line of thinking adopted in this report .
lastly , the risks to the environment should be assessed via an annual cost-benefit analysis of these gmo releases , carried out in a transparent manner and extended to cover animal and plant health as well as public and private goods .
it is also important for provision to be made for the directive to be adjusted and amended in line with new developments resulting from the fast pace of change in biotechnology and its applications .
we must not overreact if we want this directive to promote and support such a promising sector .
if liability pertaining to gene food is not regulated now , suspicion among the public regarding this type of food will only grow .
mr president , genetic engineering and biotechnology are the key technologies of the future .
if we in the eu hamper or even block the use of genetically modified organisms , we shall be manoeuvring ourselves into a backwater in this important area .
the commission promised the introduction of horizontal legislation over ten years ago .
but even though we now have a white paper , the actual legislation is some years away .
thousands of people across europe have chosen not to buy products containing gmos because of the evidence of health and environmental damage .
the basis for meeting these new challenges has to be an efficient and transparent legislative framework .
our role as european policymakers should be to provide for a balanced response to these new challenges .
we need a regulatory framework , based on safety and the precautionary principle which ensure a high level of protection for human health and environment .
at the same time , it has to allow society to benefit from the development of modern biotechnology .
our european legislation on gmos guarantees an individual and thorough risk assessment of each gmo product placed on the european market .
the sensitivity and complexity of the matter might explain why we are confronted with a total number of 52 amendments at second reading .
the commission can accept in their entirety amendments nos 9 , 17 , 19 , 29 and 47 , which improve the quality and the clarity of the texts .
the commission can also accept in principle amendments nos 1 to 4 , 8 , 11 , 24 , 35 to 38 , 46 , 48 , 49 and 52 .
let me comment further on amendment no 1 and amendments nos 13 , 14 and 28 , which all relate to the biosafety protocol and obligations for imports and exports of gmos .
the european community was one of the driving forces in the successful adoption of the cartagena protocol on biosafety in january .
the commission therefore welcomes the spirit of amendment no 1 .
this refers to the need to submit the appropriate proposals for the implementation of the protocol when ratified - work has already begun .
however , the commission cannot accept the inclusion of provisions on import and export obligations in the text of the directive .
we believe that the implications of the protocol on the overall european union legislative framework have yet to be fully assessed .
amendments nos 13 , 14 and 28 are therefore not acceptable in the present revision .
when i made my presentation to parliament in the autumn i promised that i would make particular reference to gmos in the white paper on environmental liability .
the commission did exactly that when adopting the white paper this year .
the commission is of the opinion that a horizontal approach is the most efficient way to guarantee a comprehensive responsibility regime for environmental damage .
this is also the best way to complement the existing horizontal system for product liability already covering gmos .
i can therefore accept amendments nos 2 , 36 and 46 in principle , as far as they refer to the commission white paper .
however , i cannot accept amendments nos 33 , 40 and 45 .
i am also fully aware of the political importance of certain other aspects raised by the proposed amendments .
the commission cannot agree to a general ban of gmos containing antibiotic resistance marker genes .
at the moment there is no scientific evidence that all gmos of this type present adverse effects to human health and the environment .
within these limits , amendments nos 11 , 37 , 48 and 52 are therefore acceptable in principle .
the commission can also accept in principle amendments nos 3 , 4 , 8 , 24 and 35 to the extent that they are in line with the logic of the texts and fit within the overall legislative framework .
the commission can therefore agree to a recital concerning socio-economic aspects which refers to the reporting obligation of the commission .
the commission welcomes amendments nos 38 and 49 concerning gene transfer .
however , the commission cannot accept amendment no 12 concerning the prevention of gene transfer .
gene transfer between organisms is , as we know , a common phenomenon in nature .
instead we need to ensure that potential risks from gene transfer are thoroughly assessed before gmo products are released for research or placed on the market .
the commission cannot accept amendments nos 22 and 23 as they stand , since the provisions foreseen in these amendments would not be workable within the authorisation system established by the directive .
in this context , amendment no 26 is also not acceptable since this would limit the flexibility of the optional time limitation of consent for the renewal .
amendment no 25 seeks to introduce a provision which allows for the introduction of differentiated procedures under part c of the directive .
however , this amendment goes beyond the commission proposal and is therefore not acceptable to the commission as it stands .
the commission is , however , willing to reconsider this amendment in the light of its original proposal and within the framework of an overall compromise .
the commission cannot accept amendment no 21 since the legal basis of future legislative measures is subject to its content and cannot be established in advance by this directive .
amendment no 6 , concerning a centralised community procedure , is not acceptable .
however , i should like to stress that careful evaluation of a centralised procedure would be done in the commission report required under article 30 of the directive .
amendment no 32 is therefore not acceptable .
amendments nos 5 , 7 , 10 , 15 , 16 , 18 , 20 , 27 , 30 , 31 , 34 , 39 , 41 to 44 , 50 and 51 are also not acceptable since they would introduce legal and technical uncertainty or jeopardise the overall balance achieved in the common position .
it has to ensure a high level of protection for human health and the environment and , at the same time , allow society to profit from the benefits of these new technologies .
to strike the right balance between these two justified concerns we need a transparent process , a wide dialogue and strong political leadership .
we all have to take our responsibilities in achieving this , and this is the only way in which we will win the trust and confidence of our citizens .
you know that the contained use directive excludes this and , at the same time , article 2 ( 4 ) of the common position makes no provision for regulations on gmos for contained use .
there is a gap in the legislation here and i think that this is very important for tomorrow ' vote .
mr president , i shall start with the second part of mrs breyer 's question .
insurance is one thing we will have to look into in more depth and also get the views of other parties on the practical aspects .
i believe it will be possible to put an insurance system in place .
the debate is closed .
the vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m .
the regulation under discussion has come too late , much too late in my opinion , but all the same it will help to provide some answers , some solutions and it will help us to take some action to restore consumer confidence .
in short , we all know what we are talking about .
the system that parliament is endeavouring to establish though its amendments could be applied from 1 september 2000 onwards and we insist on this because one demand of the entire house was that specific dates and deadlines should be set at long last and that we should get started .
i propose that we change this system .
the most important objective of the commission proposal - and i should like expressly to stress this once again - is the traceability of beef or bovine animals from birth through to processing and sale .
information on the fattening process and , where applicable , on antibiotics or other stimulants administered , as demanded in proposed amendment no 48 , have absolutely no business to be on the label .
this applies in particular to information on the region of origin of the meat .
but we are emphatically against making all the information , including the indication of the place of birth , compulsory when the regulation enters into force in september 2000 , rather than in two stages .
mr president , beef labelling has two distinct functions .
member states have differing levels of bse incidence but there are also variations in the measures to eradicate the disease and protect human health .
therefore people want to know which country their beef comes from .
reference to regions should not be an alternative to country of origin but a voluntary addition .
i say that because he comes from a small political group - and it is often hard to make headway here - and he comes from one of the southern member states , which will in some ways have to make sacrifices and introduce regulations to bring about effective , proper beef labelling throughout the community .
the fact that we have had to wait two years for this proposal to become a practical reality is a poor comment on the urgency with which they regard it , although the situation was plainly critical from the time of the outbreak of the bse crisis onwards .
i was glad to hear the representative of the committee on agriculture and rural development say that they would settle for the four-month advance that would involve coming forward from january 2002 .
we believe that this is necessary because we should now get the whole european union on the move .
what everybody wants - whether they are farmers , citizens or consumers in the united kingdom or anywhere else in the union - is to feel that they have equal confidence , wherever they are , in the safety of the product that they are consuming .
i know that there are people in the netherlands who disagree with that and i would be interested to know why .
we agree with the rapporteur ' s intention to stiffen and speed up the compliance provisions in amendments nos 42 and 43 .
my country , mr president , and yours - if i can call scotland my country too , as i certainly would - have suffered the horrors of bse .
after our years of effort to that end , we can now justifiably say to the community as a whole that what we want for ourselves we want for everyone else as well .
if nothing is done , compulsory labelling will enter into force on 1 september 2000 .
if we cannot agree on parliament ' s proposals by 1 september , then the old regulation with the compulsory system will enter into force .
mr president , the people who will be most shocked to learn of this evening ' s debate must surely be european consumers .
they will be astounded to learn that , so many years after the start of the bse crisis , the european union still does not have a reliable traceability system for beef .
it is therefore all the more deplorable that they should have been deprived of this possibility by the treaty of amsterdam .
what a decidedly strange europe it is that penalises member states which take the necessary initiatives and action to restore consumer confidence and protect citizens ' health !
if legal action can now only be taken at community level , then let us at least act quickly and stop indefinitely postponing the implementation of the commitments made in 1997 with a view to providing the consumer with transparent and comprehensible information .
compulsory labelling indicating the origin of goods must therefore be introduced as soon as possible , and it must certainly not be postponed until 1 january 2003 , as the commission proposes .
mr president , commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , fourteen years after bse first appeared , we have finally got around to doing something about labelling meat in order to protect consumers and ensure traceability .
this protection is undoubtedly belated in principle but , above all , illusory in practice .
firstly , in the draft regulation , 50 % of european meat is effectively exempt from compulsory labelling if it is minced or cut .
for the remaining 50 % , labelling is not compulsory until 2003 , which means that we have three years to dispose of british surplus stocks .
and after 2003 , the designation of origin may be limited to a simple indication of ' ec origin ' with no mention of the country .
what is more , to bury the prion under even more details , the label is laden down with indications of : the place where the animal was born , fattened , slaughtered and boned , with the member state of origin , the region of origin , the farm of origin , a total of twelve items , plus the price and the weight , making a total of fourteen items , which is simply too much to read and take in .
the only effective protection would be checks , and this requires states and frontiers .
mr president , this debate on the labelling of beef is closely akin to our previous concerns on the subject of food safety .
as far as the edd group is concerned , product traceability provides a guarantee both for the protection of consumer health and for the promotion of quality products which all producers , large or small , are capable of producing if they favour quality over base commercial and financial interests which have little regard for human health .
in our view the important and essential thing in this report is that all meat industry products should be covered by compulsory labelling , from basic butchered meat to derivatives , minced meat , cut meat , etc .
to that end , as i already stated in our discussions on 5 october 1999 , the cpnt party members within the edd group will therefore support any measure in support of complete traceability , which can only be of benefit to everyone concerned : the consumer , who will be informed , and the good producer , who will be protected .
any food labelling policy must be accurate and dependable for both the producers and the consumers .
mr president , the discussion on labelling beef has reached a point at which it is crucial to restore confidence among producers and consumers .
mr president , commissioner , food safety gets people talking perhaps more than any other issue , and , for that reason , it is good that it also gets us talking here in parliament .
but the most important consideration is that it does not just get us talking , but that we should also do something about it .
many have mentioned here that the ec label is not enough and that more precise information is needed .
it is absolutely essential to know what country the products are from .
in addition , the origin , not only of meat products , but of the ingredients used in processed meat , must be shown as clearly as possible .
the timetable that the committee on the environment , public health and consumer policy is proposing is not too pressing .
the member states should have already prepared themselves for it .
the issue is also one of credibility when it comes to implementing joint resolutions in all member states .
the purpose of the regulation in question must be to achieve a situation in which consumers have confidence in meat from all eu countries .
until this is a reality , consumers need to know precisely which country their meat comes from .
the authorisation number does not provide the consumer with any useful information and has no bearing upon traceability .
the compulsory registration system for bovine animals due to enter into force is the sine qua non for a reasonable beef labelling system .
such a system must be practicable if it is to achieve its objective .
mr president , the discussion on labelling beef is quite loaded .
an important question is whether the " origin : eu " label should be permitted as an added option .
there are , of course , other means of enforcing compliance , but this method is far more direct .
the internal market is a large entity .
mutual recognition requires trust , and trust requires common standards , especially in the case of food safety .
we would then be accepting that we have more confidence in certain countries than others and this is a sign of little faith in our own food safety policy .
mr president , commissioner , in my view , at present this is not a matter of confidence in the safety of food alone : it is very important that we also look to the near future .
we must put our own house , our own part of the world , in order .
for this reason , labelling must be kept very simple : the labels must show the country of origin , and , if one wishes , the region of production .
but a label showing the country of origin of a product is very important to us , particularly if we want consumers to have confidence in food safety in the future .
tomorrow , the european union is preparing to outline a test programme for all member states .
in this context , consumers would not understand the delays in the matter of labelling .
i am therefore particularly concerned to ensure that the operators in this industry are not confronted with a legal vacuum which would lead public opinion , quite legitimately , to wonder whether there is a real desire for greater transparency .
how else is it possible to explain the fact that at european level we have managed to obtain an agreement on chocolate but that we are unable to meet the deadlines we set ourselves in an area as sensitive and important as beef .
finally , what our fellow citizens are demanding is the right to information .
in the beef sector , improving consumer information through labelling represents a strong message from europe to its trading partners : it demonstrates its intention , over and above product health safety , to safeguard the consumer ' s freedom of choice .
fortunately , integral chain control ( icc ) is already well-known in many countries .
if certain conditions are met - and i would like to refer to amendments nos 60 and 61 concerning the inspection of bse , as others have done so before me - then the designation " origin : eu " is sufficient as far as i am concerned .
i hope this will restore consumer confidence in beef , especially after the bse crisis .
i would like to see not only the country but also the region of origin on the label .
mr president , i wish to begin by saying that i welcome the report .
the system is certainly very necessary , if nothing else than to achieve a level playing field within the european union and to ensure that all countries reach the same standards .
the problem to date has been , in my experience in northern ireland , that the consumer has borne the brunt of the cost of the extra traceability , and this has been substantial .
we have fought for years within the european union to achieve a single market and now we are renationalising that market .
as i said , in northern ireland we have full traceability and our measures go beyond the regulations .
i have to say to the commission , and to producers in other member states , that my producers have to date not seen any financial benefit from that which they have suffered .
first to ensure the traceability of beef , second to allow consumers to make a fully informed choice .
this is particularly the case in relation to article 13 and article 13 ( 2 ) primarily serving the first and article 13 ( 5 ) the second aim .
amendments nos 26 and 28 to 13 ( 5 ) therefore seemed rather confused - one seeking less and one seeking more detailed information for consumers .
for this reason , whatever the final form of article 13 , i regard amendments nos 15 and 29 as being of the first importance .
for my own constituency of course , aberdeen angus beef is already justly renowned throughout the world but i am sure the same is true for other regions in the rest of the uk and other member states .
i am therefore prepared to accept proposed amendments nos 22 and 23 , insofar as they concern labelling , and the parts of proposed amendments nos 25 , 26 and 28 calling for information on individual regions to be scrapped .
finally , proposed amendment no 44 , under which the regulation would enter into force on 1 september 2000 heads in exactly the same direction .
i think the new recital suggested in proposed amendment no 6 , whereby member states must ensure that their databases are operational as quickly as possible , is also a good idea .
as the obligation to enter the place of birth and all stopovers in the animal passport and database has only been introduced for animals born on or after 1 january 1998 , it will be difficult to trace the complete origin of bovine animals over the next five years .
as far as labelling of minced meat is concerned , we must bear in mind that the production of minced meat , for example of hamburgers , is a continuous process .
as far as the commission ' s powers to react to unusual and unforeseen circumstances are concerned , i am , unfortunately , unable to accept proposed amendments nos 16 and 38 because they prevent a practicable solution .
finally , i think it is premature to commit ourselves to extending the labelling system to processed products containing beef , as suggested in proposed amendment no 40 .
as far as the proposed amendments tabled subsequently at the end of last week are concerned , i have already explained in connection with proposed amendments nos 45 and 46 that the commission agrees with you that the first stage of the compulsory system should start on 1 september this year .
this idea may look simple on paper , but it is in fact extremely complicated to administer and , more importantly , to control .
as far as the voluntary system is concerned , which is to be set up alongside the new compulsory system in order to include all the information which is not being made compulsory , the commission can accept two of the four amendments adopted by the committee on the environment , namely proposals 33 and 35 .
however , i see that a total of nine new proposed amendments have been tabled for this plenary sitting which were not adopted by the committee on the environment .
these amendments seek to re-introduce a formal approval procedure for voluntary information on labels .
that concludes the debate .
the vote will be taken on wednesday at 11.30 a.m. ( the sitting was closed at 12.10 a.m. )
thank you , mrs ludford .
for instance , the technical group , the tdi group , which did not table any amendments at committee stage whatsoever , has now arrived in plenary with between 20 and 30 amendments , many of which are contradictory .
that does not respect our own rules of procedure , which allow only 32 members or a group to table amendments in plenary .
so five or six people had questions down to commissioner byrne , but none of us were here to ask the questions .
commissioner byrne seems to have taken offence at this and seen it as some kind of snub .
but it is very difficult for members to sit right through every single question during question time just in case we jump from no 1 to no 99 in a matter of seconds .
thank you , mrs mckenna .
thank you , mr wynn , i cannot answer you right now , but i will have the matter investigated .
thank you , mrs laguiller .
mr ribeiro e castro will present the motion .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , this report should not have been admitted .
we are all attached to fundamental rights and the rule of law , starting here in this house .
anything which discriminates in our legal and political conditions , between our political parties and groups in terms of freedom and equality affects our right of representation and ultimately the rights and very freedom of our electors .
paragraph 15 ruins the whole text by defiling a very serious issue .
we therefore propose , in order to defend europe and the rule of law , the immediate rejection of this report .
thank you , mr ribeiro e castro .
madam president , i think mr ribeiro e castro is quite right to consider the dimitrakopoulos-leinen report inadmissible because it conflicts with and even infringes a number of rights enshrined in our institutions .
but more generally i believe this report infringes a whole range of different rights , beginning with the rights of the small and medium-sized states which have formed an integral part of our institutions and been highly respected by them since the early days of the treaty of rome .
thank you , mr berthu .
i call on members to vote against this motion .
we must examine and vote on the report during this part-session , because it is not a matter of voting for the two rapporteurs but of voting for the european parliament ' s opinion .
however , i also believe that the strong language my fellow delegates are using is completely uncalled for .
we have recital 15 .
all in all , i believe that there is no call for excessively strong language , and i am also in favour of us rejecting this amendment .
today , through the proceedings of the intergovernmental conference , the european union is being called upon to address the great challenges involved in the transition from the 20th to the 21st century , challenges we all recognise , which are important , which influence the course of the european union every day , and challenges which , above all , raise a fundamental issue : how ready are we , as an institution , as the european union , to face them ?
the intergovernmental conference attempts to answer just that question .
the first point is once again to consolidate the institutional nature of the european union .
the second point is to reconfirm and consolidate another important principle , the principle of a balance of powers , a principle that relates precisely to the role and relationship of those who participate in the european union , a principle expressed by the way all the member states express themselves in all - i repeat , all - the european union ' s institutional bodies .
the third basic principle safeguarded in the report is the proposal for a general - and i stress the word general - review of all the institutional bodies that make up the european union .
it is only natural , when already in a europe with 15 member states we find and all agree that some things do not work quite so well and must be put right , that this will be all the more necessary when we it concerns a european union with 18 , 20 , 25 and 27 member states .
closer cooperation , at least as we view it , must comprise two main elements .
secondly , it must contain a very highly developed element of democratic awareness , which means that if any country or countries for some reason do not wish to participate , at least during a first phase , this should not be regarded as an exclusion or as a factor that restricts the presence of those countries in the european union .
doubling the number of member states requires far-reaching reform of the working structures and the decision-making procedures in the union , so that this whole undertaking does not become incapable of acting .
that is the most crucial issue and it must be the yardstick for gauging the success or failure of this intergovernmental conference .
this would not be in the interests of our citizens and our countries .
that is why it is so important for some countries to integrate more closely , as we put it , if we want european unification to take place within the confines of the european union rather than outside them .
i ask myself what kind of message this intergovernmental conference sends out to our citizens .
we also want to improve our opportunities for supervising the commission .
a europe of the citizens - to pick up on a theme i touched on before - also goes hand in hand with the charter of citizen ' s rights in the union .
the reform of the european treaties must deliver two things : more efficiency and more democracy .
if the european treaty of nice succeeds in this , then the prospects are good for achieving stability and also acceptance amongst the citizens in an enlarged european union .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , allow me first of all to make a few brief comments on foreign policy .
the treaty of amsterdam made it possible for there to be far-reaching integration of the western european union into the treaty ; in particular , it transferred the petersberg tasks .
therefore it is to be hoped that the convention , under the leadership of roman herzog , will put forward a catalogue of fundamental rights which we will be able to include in the treaty in a legally binding manner , and that on this basis , we will then be able to define our values in such a way that many of the things we discussed in the past will no longer be possible , because we will have a clear legal provision in place .
if we succeed in this then , all in all , we will have made considerable progress , and will thus have created the conditions necessary to the enlargement of the european union .
this should be enshrined in the treaty , for it is already included in our rules of procedure and is , as i said , established practice .
for years we have endeavoured to protect the financial interests of the community more effectively .
it is the view of this committee that the construction of this area of justice is important and , to this end , a reform of the court of justice is necessary .
our first demand is therefore that qualified majority be established with the assent of the european parliament .
with regard to the court , parliament also asks to be able to participate in the process of selecting judges as already happens with the posts in the constitutional courts in our states .
lastly , madam president , we want to see a reform of the treaty so that parliament , in relation to the third pillar , also has full access to justice by means of repeal in the event of regulations and acts which do not conform .
madam president , ladies and gentlemen , as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs , i would like to highlight three demands that we have to make of the intergovernmental conference , although all of them relate to the same facts .
but we still have 15 different economic policies in the member states of the european union , and we will only succeed in the long-term if this economic policy is framed according to common principles .
hence our first demand is that we should firmly establish the social market economy , which adds a human dimension to the functioning of the market , in the european treaty , as a model for our economic policy .
the court of first instance must be better accommodated in this framework , and both jurisdictions must be able to take more autonomous decisions regarding their own structures and procedures .
but in order to bring the report of the committee on legal affairs as far as possible into line with the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market , i tabled four more amendments in the plenary meeting .
as some of these amendments are also to be found in the opinions of other committees , i believe that these amendments deserve - and will probably receive - the support of the entire parliament .
this is why we need to seize this opportunity with both hands to prepare the european union , with all its institutions and in all fields , to face the challenges of the 21st century successfully . , draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgets . ( es ) madam president , the conditions of my intervention in this plenary session are illustrative of the budgetary problem .
i have just hurried from a meeting which , according to the treaty , does not exist .
it is the adaptation of the treaty , article 272 in particular , to the real situation .
we have renewed them three times , and we believe that the time has come to include the fundamental principles in the treaty so that we will not find ourselves in legally dubious situations , such as the case of the meeting which i have just mentioned .
when there are 25 members , the current procedure will not work .
i would like to raise two points .
there are no clear guidelines on institutional mechanisms for defining a common energy policy , let alone cooperation to guarantee the supply of energy or in terms of the environmental aspects of energy policy .
this means that the codecision procedure needs to apply to the euratom treaty too .
i would therefore urge you most emphatically to vote for amendment no 60 which i have tabled on behalf of my group , so that uniform safety standards can be drawn up for nuclear reactors .
the second major point is the union ' s legal personality .
indeed , it then becomes possible to ratify a number of treaties , such as ilo treaties and some un treaties in the social field , which will add legal clarity to this type of issue .
the fisheries policy is one of those policies that makes a substantial contribution to the realisation of the single market .
it strengthens economic and social conditions .
it is obvious that the fisheries sector is not an isolated pawn in the game , for it has an impact on sectors such as development , the environment and foreign relations .
as a community policy in its own right in the union treaty , the fisheries sector will unite these aspects to good effect , for that is what we want to achieve : we want to place the fisheries sector on an independent administrative and legislative footing , in relation to agriculture for example .
in fact this political responsibility inevitably gives rise to a claim to the most far-reaching of codecision rights .
madam president , the proposals by the committee on women ' s rights for the intergovernmental conference aim to enhance democracy and effectiveness .
we declare that balanced participation of women and men in decision-making at every level is a prerequisite for democracy and social justice , and we are therefore asking for the related articles of the treaties to be amended to take account of that principle in the composition of the commission , the european parliament , the court of justice , the court of first instance , the court of auditors , the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions .
we also stress the need for a close link between the intergovernmental conference and the procedure for drawing up the charter of fundamental rights , so that within the scope of the constitutionalisation of the union , the fundamental right of equality between women and men will be enshrined in community law .
the issue tackled at the last igc meeting was the question of extending qualified majority voting .
as regards the decision-making procedure in the european parliament , there is broad consensus that no revision of the treaty should be effected which involves changing the existing institutional balance .
many consider that changes should only be made where strictly necessary to ensure the effective functioning of the european union after enlargement .
it should be recalled that the conclusions of the helsinki european council specify that the council presidency will submit a report to the european council and may propose in this report the insertion of new items on the igc ' s agenda .
in the area of security and defence and the charter of fundamental rights , the council presidency considers that , depending on the progress of the work , the right should be reserved to propose to the feira european council next june the inclusion in the igc of any adjustments or additions to the treaties which may prove necessary in these areas .
however , there is clear disagreement between , on one hand , the small and medium-sized member states which want a commission composed of one national from each member state , all with equal status , and , on the other , the large member states which favour a fixed number of commissioners regardless of the number of member states .
as for the commission ' s collective responsibility as a college , there is some reluctance to accept alterations to the current institutional framework , with the current supervision exercised by the european parliament being regarded as sufficient .
the idea submitted by this house of the commission being able to request a vote of confidence in it was positively welcomed .
mr president-in-office of the council , you , and also the french council presidency that is to succeed you , bear a huge responsibility , because the outcome of this intergovernmental conference will be of historic significance , be it for positive or negative reasons .
recital 1 sets out the benchmarks that the intergovernmental conference must work to : balance between the institutions , dual legitimacy of the european union as a union of peoples and a union of states , and - something which is particularly important - balance between the small and large states of the european union .
