she keeps staring out the window .
ss : this is -- let me show you something we didn 't think they would do .
video : for several days now , panbanisha has not been outside .
ss : i normally talk about language .
video : then panbanisha does something unexpected .
ss : but since i 'm advised not to do what i normally do , i haven 't told you that these apes have language .
it 's a geometric language .
video : she takes a piece of chalk and begins writing something on the floor .
what is she writing ?
ss : she 's also saying the name of that , with her voice .
video : now she comes up to dr. sue and starts writing again .
ss : these are her symbols on her keyboard .
they speak when she touches them .
video : panbanisha is communicating to dr. sue where she wants to go .
" a frame " represents a hut in the woods .
compare the chalk writing with the lexigram on the keyboard .
panbanisha began writing the lexigrams on the forest floor .
ss : very nice . beautiful , panbanisha .
ss : at first we didn 't really realize what she was doing , until we stood back and looked at it and rotated it .
video : this lexigram also refers to a place in the woods .
the curved line is very similar to the lexigram .
the next symbol panbanisha writes represents " collar . "
it indicates the collar that panbanisha must wear when she goes out .
ss : that 's an institutional requirement .
video : this symbol is not as clear as the others , but one can see panbanisha is trying to produce a curved line and several straight lines .
researchers began to record what panbanisha said , by writing lexigrams on the floor with chalk .
panbanisha watched .
soon she began to write as well .
the bonobo 's abilities have stunned scientists around the world .
how did they develop ?
ss : we found that the most important thing for permitting bonobos to acquire language is not to teach them .
it 's simply to use language around them , because the driving force in language acquisition is to understand what others , that are important to you , are saying to you .
once you have that capacity , the ability to produce language comes rather naturally and rather freely .
so we want to create an environment in which bonobos , like all of the individuals with whom they are interacting --
we want to create an environment in which they have fun , and an environment in which the others are meaningful individuals for them .
narrator : this environment brings out unexpected potential in kanzi and panbanisha .
panbanisha is enjoying playing her harmonica , until nyota , now one year old , steals it .
then he peers eagerly into his mother 's mouth .
is he looking for where the sound came from ?
dr. sue thinks it 's important to allow such curiosity to flourish .
this time panbanisha is playing the electric piano .
she wasn 't forced to learn the piano ; she saw a researcher play the instrument and took an interest .
researcher : go ahead . go ahead . i 'm listening .
do that real fast part that you did . yeah , that part .
narrator : kanzi plays the xylophone ; using both hands he enthusiastically accompanies dr. sue 's singing .
kanzi and panbanisha are stimulated by this fun-filled environment , which promotes the emergence of these cultural capabilities .
researcher : ok , now get the monsters . get them .
take the cherries too .
now watch out , stay away from them now .
now you can chase them again . time to chase them .
now you have to stay away . get away .
run away . run .
now we can chase them again . go get them .
oh no !
good kanzi . very good . thank you so much .
narrator : none of us , bonobo or human , can possibly even imagine ?
ss : so we have a bi-species environment , we call it a " panhomoculture . "
we 're learning how to become like them .
we 're learning how to communicate with them , in really high-pitched tones .
we 're learning that they probably have a language in the wild .
and they 're learning to become like us .
because we believe that it 's not biology ; it 's culture .
so we 're sharing tools and technology and language with another species .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / tim _ berners _ lee _ the _ year _ open _ data _ went _ worldwide.html
at ted2009 , tim berners-lee called for " raw data now " -- for governments , scientists and institutions to make their data openly available on the web . at ted university in 2010 , he shows a few of the interesting results when the data gets linked up .
internet , computers , statistics , visualizations , web
788
tim berners-lee : the year open data went worldwide
last year here at ted i asked you to give me your data , to put your data on the web , on the basis that if people put data onto the web -- government data , scientific data , community data , whatever it is -- it will be used by other people to do wonderful things , in ways that they never could have imagined .
so , today i 'm back just to show you a few things , to show you , in fact , there is an open data movement afoot , now , around the world .
the cry of " raw data now ! " which i made people make in the auditorium , was heard around the world .
so , let 's roll the video .
a classic story , the first one which lots of people picked up , was when in march -- on march 10th in fact , soon after ted -- paul clarke , in the u.k. government , blogged , " oh , i 've just got some raw data . here it is , it 's about bicycle accidents . "
two days it took the times online to make a map , a mashable map -- we call these things mash-ups -- a mashed-up user interface that allows you to go in there and have a look and find out whether your bicycle route to work was affected .
here 's more data , traffic survey data , again , put out by the u.k. government , and because they put it up using the linked data standards , then a user could just make a map , just by clicking .
does this data affect things ? well , let 's get back to 2008 .
look at zanesville , ohio .
here 's a map a lawyer made . he put on it the water plant , and which houses are there , which houses have been connected to the water .
and he got , from other data sources , information to show which houses are occupied by white people .
well , there was too much of a correlation , he felt , between which houses were occupied by white people and which houses had water , and the judge was not impressed either .
the judge was not impressed to the tune of 10.9 million dollars .
that 's the power of taking one piece of data , another piece of data , putting it together , and showing the result .
let 's look at some data from the u.k. now .
this is u.k. government data , a completely independent site , where does my money go . it allows anybody to go there and burrow down .
you can burrow down by a particular type of spending , or you can go through all the different regions and compare them .
so , that 's happening in the u.k. with u.k. government data .
yes , certainly you can do it over here .
here 's a site which allows you to look at recovery spending in california .
take an arbitrary example , long beach , california , you can go and have a look at what recovery money they 've been spending on different things such as energy .
in fact , this is the graph of the number of data sets in the repositories of data.gov , and data.gov.uk .
and i 'm delighted to see a great competition between the u.k. in blue , and the u.s. in red .
how can you use this stuff ?
well , for example , if you have lots of data about places you can take , from a postcode -- which is like a zip plus four -- for a specific group of houses , you can make paper , print off a paper which has got very , very specific things about the bus stops , the things specifically near you .
on a larger scale , this is a mash-up of the data which was released about the afghan elections .
it allows you to set your own criteria for what sort of things you want to look at .
the red circles are polling stations , selected by your criteria .
and then you can select also other things on the map to see what other factors , like the threat level .
so , that was government data .
i also talked about community-generated data -- in fact i edited some . this is the wiki map , this is the open street map . " terrace theater " i actually put on the map because it wasn 't on the map before ted last year .
i was not the only person editing the open street map . each flash on this visualization -- put together by ito world -- shows an edit in 2009 made to the open street map .
let 's now spin the world during the same year .
every flash is an edit . somebody somewhere looking at the open street map , and realizing it could be better .
you can see europe is ablaze with updates .
some places , perhaps not as much as they should be .
here focusing in on haiti .
the map of port au-prince at the end of 2009 was not all it could be , not as good as the map of california .
fortunately , just after the earthquake , geoeye , a commercial company , released satellite imagery with a license , which allowed the open-source community to use it .
this is january , in time lapse , of people editing ... that 's the earthquake .
after the earthquake , immediately , people all over the world , mappers who wanted to help , and could , looked at that imagery , built the map , quickly building it up .
we 're focusing now on port-au-prince .
the light blue is refugee camps these volunteers had spotted from the [ satellite images ] .
so , now we have , immediately , a real-time map showing where there are refugee camps -- rapidly became the best map to use if you 're doing relief work in port-au-prince .
witness the fact that it 's here on this garmin device being used by rescue team in haiti .
there 's the map showing , on the left-hand side , that hospital -- actually that 's a hospital ship .
this is a real-time map that shows blocked roads , damaged buildings , refugee camps --
it shows things that are needed [ for rescue and relief work ] .
so , if you 've been involved in that at all , i just wanted to say : whatever you 've been doing , whether you 've just been chanting , " raw data now ! " or you 've been putting government or scientific data online , i just wanted to take this opportunity to say : thank you very much , and we have only just started !
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / david _ hoffman _ shares _ his _ sputnik _ mania.html
filmmaker david hoffman shares footage from his feature-length documentary sputnik mania , which shows how the soviet union 's launch of sputnik in 1957 led to both the space race and the arms race -- and jump-started science and math education around the world .
education , history , math , politics , science , short talk , space , technology , war
239
david hoffman shares his sputnik mania
fifty years ago in the old soviet union , a team of engineers was secretly moving a large object through a desolate countryside .
with it , they were hoping to capture the minds of people everywhere by being the first to conquer outer space .
the rocket was huge .
and packed in its nose was a silver ball with two radios inside .
on october 4 , 1957 , they launched their rocket .
one of the russian scientists wrote at the time : " we are about to create a new planet that we will call sputnik .
in the olden days , explorers like vasco da gama and columbus had the good fortune to open up the terrestrial globe .
now we have the good fortune to open up space .
and it is for those in the future to envy us our joy . "
you 're watching snippets from " sputnik , " my fifth documentary feature , which is just about completed .
it tells the story of sputnik , and the story of what happened to america as a result .
for days after the launch , sputnik was a wonderful curiosity .
a man-made moon visible by ordinary citizens , it inspired awe and pride that humans had finally launched an object into space .
but just three days later , on a day they called red monday , the media and the politicians told us , and we believed , that sputnik was proof that our enemy had beaten us in science and technology , and that they could now attack us with hydrogen bombs , using their sputnik rocket as an ibm missile .
all hell broke loose .
sputnik quickly became one of the three great shocks to hit america -- historians say the equal of pearl harbor or 9 / 11 .
it provoked the missile gap .
it exploded an arms race .
it began the space race .
within a year , congress funded huge weapons increases , and we went from 1,200 nuclear weapons to 20,000 .
and the reactions to sputnik went far beyond weapons increases .
for example , some here will remember this day , june 1958 , the national civil defense drill , where tens of millions of people in 78 cities went underground .
or the gallup poll that showed that seven in 10 americans
believed that a nuclear war would happen , and that at least 50 percent of our population was going to be killed .
but sputnik provoked wonderful changes as well .
for example , some in this room went to school on scholarship because of sputnik .
support for engineering , math and science -- education in general -- boomed .
and vint cerf points out that sputnik led directly to arpa , and the internet , and , of course , nasa .
my feature documentary shows how a free society can be stampeded by those who know how to use media .
but it also shows how we can turn what appears at first to be a bad situation , into something that was overall very good for america .
" sputnik " will soon be released .
in closing , i would like to take a moment to thank one of my investors : longtime tedster , jay walker .
and i 'd like to thank you all .
. thank you , chris .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / steven _ strogatz _ on _ sync.html
mathematician steven strogatz shows how flocks of creatures manage to synchronize and act as a unit -- when no one 's giving orders . the powerful tendency extends into the realm of objects , too .
biology , biomechanics , math , science , society , technology
422
steven strogatz on sync
i was trying to think , how is sync connected to happiness , and it occurred to me that for some reason we take pleasure in synchronizing .
we like to dance together , we like singing together .
and so , if you 'll put up with this , i would like to enlist your help with a first experiment today . the experiment is -- and i notice , by the way , that when you applauded , that you did it in a typical north american way , that is , you were raucous and incoherent .
you were not organized . it didn 't even occur to you to clap in unison .
do you think you could do it ? i would like to see if this audience would -- no , you haven 't practiced , as far as i know -- can you get it together to clap in sync ?
whoa ! now , that 's what we call emergent behavior .
so i didn 't expect that , but -- i mean , i expected you could synchronize .
it didn 't occur to me you 'd increase your frequency .
it 's interesting .
so what do we make of that ? first of all , we know that you 're all brilliant .
this is a room full of intelligent people , highly sensitive .
some trained musicians out there .
is that what enabled you to synchronize ?
so to put the question a little more seriously , let 's ask ourselves what are the minimum requirements for what you just did , for spontaneous synchronization .
do you need , for instance , to be as smart as you are ?
do you even need a brain at all just to synchronize ?
do you need to be alive ? i mean , that 's a spooky thought , right ?
inanimate objects that might spontaneously synchronize themselves .
it 's real . in fact , i 'll try to explain today that sync is maybe one of , if not one of the most , perhaps the most pervasive drive in all of nature .
it extends from the subatomic scale to the farthest reaches of the cosmos .
it 's a deep tendency toward order in nature that opposes what we 've all been taught about entropy .
i mean , i 'm not saying the law of entropy is wrong -- it 's not .
but there is a countervailing force in the universe -- the tendency towards spontaneous order . and so that 's our theme .
now , to get into that , let me begin with what might have occurred to you immediately when you hear that we 're talking about synchrony in nature , which is the glorious example of birds that flock together , or fish swimming in organized schools .
so these are not particularly intelligent creatures , and yet , as we 'll see , they exhibit beautiful ballets .
this is from a bbc show called " predators , " and what we 're looking at here are examples of synchrony that have to do with defense .
when you 're small and vulnerable , like these starlings , or like the fish , it helps to swarm to avoid predators , to confuse predators .
let me be quiet for a second because this is so gorgeous .
for a long time , biologists were puzzled by this behavior , wondering how it could be possible .
we 're so used to choreography giving rise to synchrony .
these creatures are not choreographed .
they 're choreographing themselves .
and only today is science starting to figure out how it works .
i 'll show you a computer model made by iain couzin , a researcher at oxford , that shows how swarms work .
there are just three simple rules .
first , all the individuals are only aware of their nearest neighbors .
second , all the individuals have a tendency to line up .
and third , they 're all attracted to each other , but they try to keep a small distance apart .
and when you build those three rules in , automatically you start to see swarms that look very much like fish schools or bird flocks .
now , fish like to stay close together , about a body length apart .
birds try to stay about three or four body lengths apart .
but except for that difference , the rules are the same for both .
now , all this changes when a predator enters the scene .
there 's a fourth rule : when a predator 's coming , get out of the way .
here on the model you see the predator attacking .
the prey move out in random directions , and then the rule of attraction brings them back together again , so there 's this constant splitting and reforming .
and you see that in nature .
keep in mind that , although it looks as if each individual is acting to cooperate , what 's really going on is a kind of selfish darwinian behavior .
each is scattering away at random to try to save its scales or feathers .
that is , out of the desire to save itself , each creature is following these rules , and that leads to something that 's safe for all of them .
even though it looks like they 're thinking as a group , they 're not .
you might wonder what exactly is the advantage to being in a swarm , so you can think of several .
as i say , if you 're in a swarm , your odds of being the unlucky one are reduced as compared to a small group .
there are many eyes to spot danger .
and you 'll see in the example with the starlings , with the birds , when this peregrine hawk is about to attack them , that actually waves of panic can propagate , sending messages over great distances .
you 'll see -- let 's see , it 's coming up possibly at the very end -- maybe not .
information can be sent over half a kilometer away in a very short time through this mechanism .
yes , it 's happening here .
see if you can see those waves propagating through the swarm .
it 's beautiful . the birds are , we sort of understand , we think , from that computer model , what 's going on .
as i say , it 's just those three simple rules , plus the one about watch out for predators .
there doesn 't seem to be anything mystical about this .
we don 't , however , really understand at a mathematical level .
i 'm a mathematician . we would like to be able to understand better .
i mean , i showed you a computer model , but a computer is not understanding .
a computer is , in a way , just another experiment .
we would really like to have a deeper insight into how this works and to understand , you know , exactly where this organization comes from .
how do the rules give rise to the patterns ?
there is one case that we have begun to understand better , and it 's the case of fireflies .
if you see fireflies in north america , like so many north american sorts of things , they tend to be independent operators . they ignore each other .
they each do their own thing , flashing on and off , paying no attention to their neighbors .
but in southeast asia -- places like thailand or malaysia or borneo -- there 's a beautiful cooperative behavior that occurs among male fireflies .
you can see it every night along the river banks .
the trees , mangrove trees , are filled with fireflies communicating with light .
specifically , it 's male fireflies who are all flashing in perfect time together , in perfect synchrony , to reinforce a message to the females .
and the message , as you can imagine , is " come hither . mate with me . "
in a second i 'm going to show you a slow motion of a single firefly so that you can get a sense . this is a single frame .
then on , and then off -- a 30th of a second , there .
and then watch this whole river bank , and watch how precise the synchrony is .
on , more on and then off .
the combined light from these beetles -- these are actually tiny beetles -- is so bright that fishermen out at sea can use them as navigating beacons to find their way back to their home rivers . it 's stunning .
for a long time it was not believed when the first western travelers , like sir francis drake , went to thailand and came back with tales of this unbelievable spectacle .
no one believed them .
we don 't see anything like this in europe or in the west .
and for a long time , even after it was documented , it was thought to be some kind of optical illusion .
scientific papers were published saying it was twitching eyelids that explained it , or , you know , a human being 's tendency to see patterns where there are none .
but i hope you 've convinced yourself now , with this nighttime video , that they really were very well synchronized .
okay , well , the issue then is , do we need to be alive to see this kind of spontaneous order , and i 've already hinted that the answer is no .
well , you don 't have to be a whole creature .
you can even be just a single cell .
like , take , for instance , your pacemaker cells in your heart right now .
they 're keeping you alive .
every beat of your heart depends on this crucial region , the sinoatrial node , which has about 10,000 independent cells that would each beep , have an electrical rhythm -- a voltage up and down -- to send a signal to the ventricles to pump .
now , your pacemaker is not a single cell .
it 's this democracy of 10,000 cells that all have to fire in unison for the pacemaker to work correctly .
i don 't want to give you the idea that synchrony is always a good idea .
if you have epilepsy , there is an instance of billions of brain cells , or at least millions , discharging in pathological concert .
so this tendency towards order is not always a good thing .
you don 't have to be alive . you don 't have to be even a single cell .
if you look , for instance , at how lasers work , that would be a case of atomic synchrony .
in a laser , what makes laser light so different from the light above my head here is that this light is incoherent -- many different colors and different frequencies , sort of like the way you clapped initially -- but if you were a laser , it would be rhythmic applause . it would be all atoms pulsating in unison , emitting light of one color , one frequency .
now comes the very risky part of my talk , which is to demonstrate that inanimate things can synchronize .
hold your breath for me .
what i have here are two empty water bottles .
this is not keith barry doing a magic trick .
this is a klutz just playing with some water bottles .
i have some metronomes here .
can you hear that ?
all right , so , i 've got a metronome , and it 's the world 's smallest metronome , the -- well , i shouldn 't advertise .
anyway , so this is the world 's smallest metronome .
i 've set it on the fastest setting , and i 'm going to now take another one set to the same setting .
we can try this first . if i just put them on the table together , there 's no reason for them to synchronize , and they probably won 't .
maybe you 'd better listen to them . i 'll stand here .
what i 'm hoping is that they might just drift apart because their frequencies aren 't perfectly the same .
right ? they did .
they were in sync for a while , but then they drifted apart .
and the reason is that they 're not able to communicate .
now , you might think that 's a bizarre idea .
how can metronomes communicate ?
well , they can communicate through mechanical forces .
so i 'm going to give them a chance to do that .
i also want to wind this one up a bit . how can they communicate ?
i 'm going to put them on a movable platform , which is the " guide to graduate study at cornell . " okay ? so here it is .
let 's see if we can get this to work .
my wife pointed out to me that it will work better if i put both on at the same time because otherwise the whole thing will tip over .
all right . so there we go . let 's see . ok , i 'm not trying to cheat -- let me start them out of sync . no , hard to even do that .
all right . so before any one goes out of sync , i 'll just put those right there .
now , that might seem a bit whimsical , but this pervasiveness of this tendency towards spontaneous order sometimes has unexpected consequences .
and a clear case of that , was something that happened in london in the year 2000 .
the millennium bridge was supposed to be the pride of london -- a beautiful new footbridge erected across the thames , first river crossing in over 100 years in london .
there was a big competition for the design of this bridge , and the winning proposal was submitted by an unusual team -- in the ted spirit , actually -- of an architect -- perhaps the greatest architect in the united kingdom , lord norman foster -- working with an artist , a sculptor , sir anthony caro , and an engineering firm , ove arup .
and together they submitted a design based on lord foster 's vision , which was -- he remembered as a kid reading flash gordon comic books , and he said that when flash gordon would come to an abyss , he would shoot what today would be a kind of a light saber .
he would shoot his light saber across the abyss , making a blade of light , and then scamper across on this blade of light .
he said , " that 's the vision i want to give to london .
i want a blade of light across the thames . "
so they built the blade of light , and it 's a very thin ribbon of steel , the world 's -- probably the flattest and thinnest suspension bridge there is , with cables that are out on the side .
you 're used to suspension bridges with big droopy cables on the top .
these cables were on the side of the bridge , like if you took a rubber band and stretched it taut across the thames -- that 's what 's holding up this bridge .
now , everyone was very excited to try it out .
on opening day , thousands of londoners came out , and something happened .
and within two days the bridge was closed to the public .
so i want to first show you some interviews with people who were on the bridge on opening day , who will describe what happened .
man : it really started moving sideways and slightly up and down , rather like being on the boat .
woman : yeah , it felt unstable , and it was very windy , and i remember it had lots of flags up and down the sides , so you could definitely -- there was something going on sideways , it felt , maybe .
interviewer : not up and down ? boy : no .
interviewer : and not forwards and backwards ? boy : no .
interviewer : just sideways . about how much was it moving , do you think ?
boy : it was about -- interviewer : i mean , that much , or this much ?
boy : about the second one .
interviewer : this much ? boy : yeah .
man : it was at least six , six to eight inches , i would have thought .
interviewer : right , so , at least this much ? man : oh , yes .
woman : i remember wanting to get off .
interviewer : oh , did you ? woman : yeah . it felt odd .
interviewer : so it was enough to be scary ? woman : yeah , but i thought that was just me .
interviewer : ah ! now , tell me why you had to do this ?
boy : we had to do this because , to keep in balance because if you didn 't keep your balance , then you would just fall over about , like , to the left or right , about 45 degrees .
interviewer : so just show me how you walk normally . right .
and then show me what it was like when the bridge started to go . right .
so you had to deliberately push your feet out sideways and -- oh , and short steps ?
man : that 's right . and it seemed obvious to me that it was probably the number of people on it .
interviewer : were they deliberately walking in step , or anything like that ?
man : no , they just had to conform to the movement of the bridge .
steven strogatz : all right , so that already gives you a hint of what happened .
think of the bridge as being like this platform .
think of the people as being like metronomes .
now , you might not be used to thinking of yourself as a metronome , but after all , we do walk like -- i mean , we oscillate back and forth as we walk .
and especially if we start to walk like those people did , right ?
they all showed this strange sort of skating gait that they adopted once the bridge started to move .
and so let me show you now the footage of the bridge .
but also , after you see the bridge on opening day , you 'll see an interesting clip of work done by a bridge engineer at cambridge named allan mcrobie , who figured out what happened on the bridge , and who built a bridge simulator to explain exactly what the problem was .
it was a kind of unintended positive feedback loop between the way the people walked and the way the bridge began to move , that engineers knew nothing about .
actually , i think the first person you 'll see is the young engineer who was put in charge of this project . okay .
interviewer : did anyone get hurt ? engineer : no .
interviewer : right . so it was quite small -- engineer : yes . interviewer : -- but real ?
engineer : absolutely . interviewer : you thought , " oh , bother . "
engineer : i felt i was disappointed about it .
we 'd spent a lot of time designing this bridge , and we 'd analyzed it , we 'd checked it to codes -- to heavier loads than the codes -- and here it was doing something that we didn 't know about .
interviewer : you didn 't expect . engineer : exactly .
narrator : the most dramatic and shocking footage shows whole sections of the crowd -- hundreds of people -- apparently rocking from side to side in unison , not only with each other , but with the bridge .
this synchronized movement seemed to be driving the bridge .
but how could the crowd become synchronized ?
was there something special about the millennium bridge that caused this effect ?
this was to be the focus of the investigation .
interviewer : well , at last the simulated bridge is finished , and i can make it wobble .
now , allan , this is all your fault , isn 't it ? allan mcrobie : yes .
interviewer : you designed this , yes , this simulated bridge , and this , you reckon , mimics the action of the real bridge ?
am : it captures a lot of the physics , yes .
interviewer : right . so if we get on it , we should be able to wobble it , yes ?
allan mcrobie is a bridge engineer from cambridge who wrote to me , suggesting that a bridge simulator ought to wobble in the same way as the real bridge -- provided we hung it on pendulums of exactly the right length .
am : this one 's only a couple of tons , so it 's fairly easy to get going .
just by walking . interviewer : well , it 's certainly going now .
am : it doesn 't have to be a real dangle . just walk . it starts to go .
interviewer : it 's actually quite difficult to walk .
you have to be careful where you put your feet down , don 't you , because if you get it wrong , it just throws you off your feet .
am : it certainly affects the way you walk , yes . you can 't walk normally on it .
interviewer : no . if you try and put one foot in front of another , it 's moving your feet away from under you . am : yes .
interviewer : so you 've got to put your feet out sideways .
so already , the simulator is making me walk in exactly the same way as our witnesses walked on the real bridge .
am : ... ice-skating gait . there isn 't all this sort of snake way of walking .
interviewer : for a more convincing experiment , i wanted my own opening-day crowd , the sound check team .
their instructions : just walk normally .
it 's really intriguing because none of these people is trying to drive it .
they 're all having some difficulty walking .
and the only way you can walk comfortably is by getting in step .
but then , of course , everyone is driving the bridge .
you can 't help it . you 're actually forced by the movement of the bridge to get into step , and therefore to drive it to move further .
ss : all right , well , with that from the ministry of silly walks , maybe i 'd better end . i see i 've gone over .
but i hope that you 'll go outside and see the world in a new way , to see all the amazing synchrony around us . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / cary _ fowler _ one _ seed _ at _ a _ time _ protecting _ the _ future _ of _ food.html
the varieties of wheat , corn and rice we grow today may not thrive in a future threatened by climate change . cary fowler takes us inside a vast global seed bank , buried within a frozen mountain in norway , that stores a diverse group of food-crop for whatever tomorrow may bring .
agriculture , biodiversity , biosphere , climate change , disaster relief , environment
622
cary fowler : one seed at a time , protecting the future of food
i 've been fascinated with crop diversity for about 35 years from now , ever since i stumbled across a fairly obscure academic article by a guy named jack harlan .
and he described the diversity within crops -- all the different kinds of wheat and rice and such -- as a genetic resource .
and he said , " this genetic resource , " -- and i 'll never forget the words -- " stands between us and catastrophic starvation on a scale we cannot imagine . " i figured he was either really on to something , or he was one of these academic nutcases .
so , i looked a little further , and what i figured out was that he wasn 't a nutcase .
he was the most respected scientist in the field .
what he understood was that biological diversity -- crop diversity -- is the biological foundation of agriculture .
it 's the raw material , the stuff , of evolution in our agricultural crops .
not a trivial matter .
and he also understood that that foundation was crumbling , literally crumbling .
that indeed , a mass extinction was underway in our fields , in our agricultural system .
and that this mass extinction was taking place with very few people noticing and even fewer caring .
now , i know that many of you don 't stop to think about diversity in agricultural systems and , let 's face it , that 's logical .
you don 't see it in the newspaper every day .
and when you go into the supermarket , you certainly don 't see a lot of choices there .
you see apples that are red , yellow , and green and that 's about it .
so , let me show you a picture of one form of diversity .
here 's some beans ,
and there are about 35 or 40 different varieties of beans on this picture .
now , imagine each one of these varieties as being distinct from another about the same way as a poodle from a great dane .
if i wanted to show you a picture of all the dog breeds in the world , and i put 30 or 40 of them on a slide , it would take about 10 slides because there about 400 breeds of dogs in the world .
but there are 35 to 40,000 different varieties of beans .
so if i were to going to show you all the beans in the world , and i had a slide like this , and i switched it every second , it would take up my entire ted talk , and i wouldn 't have to say anything .
but the interesting thing is that this diversity -- and the tragic thing is -- that this diversity is being lost .
we have about 200,000 different varieties of wheat , and we have about 2 to 400,000 different varieties of rice , but it 's being lost .
and i want to give you an example of that .
it 's a bit of a personal example , in fact .
in the united states , in the 1800s -- that 's where we have the best data -- farmers and gardeners were growing 7,100 named varieties of apples .
imagine that . 7,100 apples with names .
today , 6,800 of those are extinct ,
no longer to be seen again .
i used to have a list of these extinct apples ,
and when i would go out and give a presentation , i would pass the list out in the audience . i wouldn 't tell them what it was , but it was in alphabetical order ,
and i would tell them to look for their names , their family names , their mother 's maiden name .
and at the end of the speech , i would ask , " how many people have found a name ? " and i never had fewer than two-thirds of an audience hold up their hand .
and i said , " you know what ? these apples come from your ancestors , and your ancestors gave them the greatest honor they could give them . they gave them their name .
the bad news is they 're extinct .
the good news is a third of you didn 't hold up your hand . your apple 's still out there .
find it . make sure it doesn 't join the list . "
so , i want to tell you that the piece of the good news is that the fowler apple is still out there .
and there 's an old book back here , and i want to read a piece from it .
this book was published in 1904 .
it 's called " the apples of new york " and this is the second volume .
see , we used to have a lot of apples .
and the fowler apple is described in here -- i hope this doesn 't surprise you -- as , " a beautiful fruit . "
i don 't know if we named the apple or if the apple named us , but ...
but , to be honest , the description goes on and it says that it " doesn 't rank high in quality , however . "
and then he has to go even further . it sounds like it was written by an old school teacher of mine . " as grown in new york , the fruit usually fails to develop properly in size and quality and is , on the whole , unsatisfactory . " and i guess there 's a lesson to be learned here , and the lesson is : so why save it ? i get this question all the time . why don 't we just save the best one ?
and there are a couple of answers to that question .
one thing is that there is no such thing as a best one .
today 's best variety is tomorrow 's lunch for insects or pests or disease .
the other thing is that maybe that fowler apple or maybe a variety of wheat that 's not economical right now has disease or pest resistance or some quality that we 're going to need for climate change that the others don 't .
so it 's not necessary , thank god , that the fowler apple is the best apple in the world .
it 's just necessary or interesting that it might have one good , unique trait .
and for that reason , we ought to be saving it .
why ? as a raw material , as a trait we can use in the future .
think of diversity as giving us options .
and options , of course , are exactly what we need in an era of climate change .
i want to show you two slides , but first , i want to tell you that we 've been working at the global crop diversity trust with a number of scientists -- particularly at stanford and university of washington -- to ask the question : what 's going to happen to agriculture in an era of climate change
and what kind of traits and characteristics do we need in our agricultural crops to be able to adapt to this ? in short , the answer is that in the future , in many countries , the coldest growing seasons are going to be hotter than anything those crops have seen in the past .
the coldest growing seasons of the future , hotter than the hottest of the past .
is agriculture adapted to that ?
i don 't know . can fish play the piano ?
if agriculture hasn 't experienced that , how could it be adapted ?
now , the highest concentration of poor and hungry people in the world , and the place where climate change , ironically , is going to be the worst is in south asia and sub-saharan africa .
so i 've picked two examples here , and i want to show you .
in the histogram before you now , the blue bars represent the historical range of temperatures , going back about far as we have temperature data .
and you can see that there 's some difference between one growing season and another .
some are colder , some are hotter and it 's a bell shaped curve .
the tallest bar is the average temperature for the most number of growing seasons .
in the future , later this century , it 's going to look like the red , totally out of bounds .
the agricultural system and , more importantly , the crops in the field in india have never experienced this before .
here 's south africa . the same story .
but the most interesting thing about south africa is we don 't have to wait for 2070 for there to be trouble .
by 2030 , if the maize , or corn , varieties , which is the dominant crop -- 50 percent of the nutrition in southern africa are still in the field -- in 2030 , we 'll have a 30 percent decrease in production of maize because of the climate change already in 2030 .
30 percent decrease of production in the context of increasing population , that 's a food crisis . it 's global in nature .
we will watch children starve to death on tv .
now , you may say that 20 years is a long way off .
it 's two breeding cycles for maize .
we have two rolls of the dice to get this right .
we have to get climate-ready crops in the field , and we have to do that rather quickly .
now , the good news is that we have conserved . we have collected and conserved a great deal of biological diversity , agricultural diversity , mostly in the form of seed , and we put it in seed banks , which is a fancy way of saying a freezer .
if you want to conserve seed for a long term and you want to make it available to plant breeders and researchers , you dry it and then you freeze it .
unfortunately , these seed banks are located around the world in buildings and they 're vulnerable .
disasters have happened . in recent years we lost the gene bank , the seed bank in iraq and afghanistan . you can guess why .
in rwanda , in the solomon islands .
and then there are just daily disasters that take place in these buildings , financial problems and mismanagement and equipment failures , and all kinds of things , and every time something like this happens , it means extinction . we lose diversity .
and i 'm not talking about losing diversity in the same way that you lose your car keys .
i 'm talking about losing it in the same way that we lost the dinosaurs : actually losing it , never to be seen again .
so , a number of us got together and decided that , you know , enough is enough and we need to do something about that and we need to have a facility that can really offer protection for our biological diversity of -- maybe not the most charismatic diversity .
you don 't look in the eyes of a carrot seed quite in the way you do a panda bear , but it 's very important diversity .
so we needed a really safe place , and we went quite far north to find it .
to svalbard , in fact . this is above mainland norway . you can see greenland there .
that 's at 78 degrees north .
it 's as far as you can fly on a regularly scheduled airplane .
it 's a remarkably beautiful landscape . i can 't even begin to describe it to you .
it 's otherworldly , beautiful .
we worked with the norwegian government and with the norgen , the norwegian genetic resources program , to design this facility .
what you see is an artist 's conception of this facility , which is built in a mountain in svalbard .
the idea of svalbard was that it 's cold , so we get natural freezing temperatures .
but it 's remote . it 's remote and accessible
so it 's safe and we don 't depend on mechanical refrigeration .
this is more than just an artist 's dream , it 's now a reality .
and this next picture shows it in context , in svalbard .
and here 's the front door of this facility .
when you open up the front door , this is what you 're looking at . it 's pretty simple . it 's a hole in the ground . it 's a tunnel , and you go into the tunnel , chiseled in solid rock , about 130 meters .
there are now a couple of security doors , so you won 't see it quite like this .
again , when you get to the back , you get into an area that 's really my favorite place .
i think of it as sort of a cathedral .
and i know that this tags me as a bit of a nerd , but ...
some of the happiest days of my life have been spent ...
in this place there .
if you were to walk into one of these rooms , you would see this .
it 's not very exciting , but if you know what 's there , it 's pretty emotional .
we have now about 425,000 samples of unique crop varieties .
there 's 70,000 samples of different varieties of rice in this facility right now .
about a year from now , we 'll have over half a million samples .
we 're going up to over a million , and someday we 'll basically have samples -- about 500 seeds -- of every variety of agricultural crop that can be stored in a frozen state in this facility .
this is a backup system for world agriculture . it 's a backup system for all the seed banks . storage is free .
it operates like a safety deposit box .
norway owns the mountain and the facility , but the depositors own the seed .
and if anything happens , then they can come back and get it .
this particular picture that you see shows the national collection of the united states , of canada , and an international institution from syria .
i think it 's interesting in that this facility , i think , is almost the only thing i can think of these days where countries , literally , every country in the world -- because we have seeds from every country in the world -- all the countries of the world have gotten together to do something that 's both long term , sustainable and positive .
i can 't think of anything else that 's happened in my lifetime that way .
i can 't look you in the eyes and tell you that i have a solution for climate change , for the water crisis .
agriculture takes 70 percent of fresh water supplies on earth .
i can 't look you in the eyes and tell you that there is such a solution for those things , or the energy crisis , or world hunger , or peace in conflict .
i can 't look you in the eyes and tell you that i have a simple solution for that , but i can look you in the eyes and tell you that we can 't solve any of those problems if we don 't have crop diversity .
because i challenge you to think of an effective , efficient , sustainable solution to climate change if we don 't have crop diversity .
because , quite literally , if agriculture doesn 't adapt to climate change , neither will we .
and if crops don 't adapt to climate change , neither will agriculture , neither will we .
so , this is not something pretty and nice to do .
there are a lot of people who would love to have this diversity exist just for the existence value of it .
it is , i agree , a nice thing to do .
but it 's a necessary thing to do .
so , in a very real sense , i believe that we , as an international community , should get organized to complete the task .
the svalbard global seed vault is a wonderful gift that norway and others have given us , but it 's not the complete answer .
we need to collect the remaining diversity that 's out there .
we need to put it into good seed banks that can offer those seeds to researchers in the future .
we need to catalog it . it 's a library of life ,
but right now i would say we don 't have a card catalog for it .
and we need to support it financially .
my big idea would be that while we think of it as commonplace to endow an art museum or endow a chair at a university , we really ought to be thinking about endowing wheat .
30 million dollars in an endowment would take care of preserving all the diversity in wheat forever .
so we need to be thinking a little bit in those terms .
and my final thought is that we , of course , by conserving wheat , rice , potatoes , and the other crops , we may , quite simply , end up saving ourselves .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / yossi _ vardi _ fights _ local _ warming.html
investor and prankster yossi vardi delivers a ballsy lecture on the dangers of blogging . specifically , for men .
blog , comedy , humor , short talk
203
yossi vardi fights local warming
we are going to talk today about the sequel of " inconvenient truth . "
it 's time again to talk about " inconvenient truth , " a truth that everyone is concerned about , but nobody is willing to talk about .
somebody has to take the lead , and i decided to do it .
if you are scared by global warming , wait until we learn about local warming .
we will talk today about local warming .
important health message : blogging may be hazardous to your health , especially if you are a male .
this message is given as a public service .
blogging affects your posture . we start with the posture .
this is the posture of ladies who are not blogging ; this is the posture of ladies who are blogging .
this is the natural posture of a man sitting , squatting for ventilation purposes .
and this is the natural posture of a standing man ,
and i think this picture inspired chris to insert me into the lateral thinking session .
this is male blogging posture sitting , and the result is , " for greater comfort , men naturally sit with their legs farther apart than women ,
when working on laptop . however , they will adopt a less natural posture in order to balance it on their laps ,
which resulted in a significant rise of body heat between their thighs . " this is the issue of local warming .
this is a very serious newspaper ; it 's times of england --
very serious . this is a very --
-- gentlemen and ladies , be serious .
this is a very serious research , that you should read the underline .
and be careful , your genes are in danger .
will geeks become endangered species ?
the fact : population growth in countries with high laptop --
i need hans rosling to give me a graph .
global warming fun .
how to take care in five easy steps :
first of all , you can use natural ventilation . you can use body breath .
you should stay cool with the appropriate clothing .
you should care about your posture -- this is not right .
can you extract from chris another minute and a half for me , because i have a video i have to show you .
you are great . this is the correct posture .
another benefit of wi-fi , we learned yesterday about the benefits of wi-fi .
wi-fi enables you to avoid the processor . and there are some enhanced protection measures , which i would like to share with you ,
and i would like , in a minute , to thank philips for helping .
this is a research which was done in ' 86 , but it 's still valid .
scrotal temperature reflects intratesticular temperature and is lowered by shaving .
by the way , i must admit , my english is not so good ,
i didn 't know what is scrotal ; i understand it 's a scrotum .
i guess in plural it 's scrotal , like medium and media .
digital scrotum , digital media .
and only last year i recognized that i 'm a proud scrotum owner .
and this research is being precipitated by the u.s. government ,
so you can see that your tax man is working for good causes .
video : man : the philips bodygroom has a sleek , ergonomic design for a safe and easy way to trim those scruffy underarm hairs , the untidy curls on and around your [ bleep ] , as well as the hard to reach locks on the underside of your
[ bleep ] and [ bleep ] . once you use the bodygroom , the world looks different . and so does your [ bleep ] . these days , with a hair-free back , well-groomed shoulders and an extra optical inch on my [ bleep ] , well , let 's just say life has gotten pretty darn cozy .
yossi vardi : this is one of the most popular viral advertisement of last year , known as the optical inch by philips . let 's applaud philips --
-- for this gesture for humanity .
and this is how they are promoting the product . this is --
i didn 't touch it , this is original .
laptop use to solve overpopulation . and if everything failed , there are some secondary uses .
and then our next talk , our next ted if you invite me will be why you should not carry a cell phone in your pocket .
and this is what the young generation says .
and i just want to show you that i 'm not just preaching ,
but i also practice .
4 am in the morning .
you cannot use this picture .
now , i have some mini ted prizes , this is the philips bodygroom , one for our leader .
anybody feels threatened , anybody really need it ?
any lady , any lady ? thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / burt _ rutan _ sees _ the _ future _ of _ space.html
in this passionate talk , legendary spacecraft designer burt rutan lambasts the us government-funded space program for stagnating and asks entrepreneurs to pick up where nasa has left off .
nasa , aircraft , business , design , engineering , entrepreneur , flight , industrial design , invention , rocket science , science , space , technology , transportation
4
burt rutan sees the future of space
i want to start off by saying , houston , we have a problem .
we 're entering a second generation of no progress in terms of human flight in space . in fact , we 've regressed .
we stand a very big chance of losing our ability to inspire our youth to go out and continue this very important thing that we as a species have always done .
and that is , instinctively we 've gone out and climbed over difficult places , went to more hostile places ,
and found out later , maybe to our surprise , that that 's the reason we survived .
and i feel very strongly that it 's not good enough for us to have generations of kids that think that it 's ok to look forward to a better version of a cell phone with a video in it .
they need to look forward to exploration ; they need to look forward to colonization ; they need to look forward to breakthroughs .
we need to inspire them , because they need to lead us and help us survive in the future .
i 'm particularly troubled that what nasa 's doing right now with this new bush doctrine to -- for this next decade and a half -- oh shoot , i screwed up .
we have real specific instructions here not to talk about politics .
what we 're looking forward to is -- what we 're looking forward to is not only the inspiration of our children ,
but the current plan right now is not really even allowing the most creative people in this country -- the boeing 's and lockheed 's space engineers -- to go out and take risks and try new stuff .
we 're going to go back to the moon ... 50 years later ? and we 're going to do it very specifically planned to not learn anything new .
i 'm really troubled by that . but anyway that 's -- the basis of the thing that i want to share with you today , though , is that right back to where we inspire people who will be our great leaders later .
that 's the theme of my next 15 minutes here .
and i think that the inspiration begins when you 're very young : three-year-olds , up to 12- , 14-year-olds .
what they look at is the most important thing .
let 's take a snapshot at aviation .
and there was a wonderful little short four-year time period when marvelous things happened .
it started in 1908 , when the wright brothers flew in paris , and everybody said , " ooh , hey , i can do that . " there 's only a few people that have flown in early 1908 . in four years , 39 countries had hundreds of airplanes , thousand of pilots . airplanes were invented by natural selection .
now you can say that intelligent design designs our airplanes of today , but there was no intelligent design really designing those early airplanes .
there were probably at least 30,000 different things tried , and when they crash and kill the pilot , don 't try that again .
the ones that flew and landed ok because there were no trained pilots who had good flying qualities by definition .
so we , by making a whole bunch of attempts , thousands of attempts , in that four-year time period , we invented the concepts of the airplanes that we fly today . and that 's why they 're so safe , as we gave it a lot of chance to find what 's good .
that has not happened at all in space flying .
there 's only been two concepts tried -- two by the u.s. and one by the russians .
well , who was inspired during that time period ?
aviation week asked me to make a list of who i thought were the movers and shakers of the first 100 years of aviation .
and i wrote them down and i found out later that every one of them was a little kid in that wonderful renaissance of aviation .
well , what happened when i was a little kid was -- some pretty heavy stuff too .
the jet age started : the missile age started . von braun was on there showing how to go to mars -- and this was before sputnik .
and this was at a time when mars was a hell of a lot more interesting than it is now . we thought there 'd be animals there ; we knew there were plants there ; the colors change , right ?
but , you know , nasa screwed that up because they 've sent these robots and they 've landed it only in the deserts .
if you look at what happened -- this little black line is as fast as man ever flew , and the red line is top-of-the-line military fighters and the blue line is commercial air transport .
you notice here 's a big jump when i was a little kid -- and i think that had something to do with giving me the courage to go out and try something that other people weren 't having the courage to try .
well , what did i do when i was a kid ?
i didn 't do the hotrods and the girls and the dancing
and , well , we didn 't have drugs in those days . but i did competition model airplanes .
i spent about seven years during the vietnam war flight-testing airplanes for the air force . and then i went in and i had a lot of fun building airplanes that people could build in their garages .
and some 3,000 of those are flying . of course , one of them is around the world voyager . i founded another company in ' 82 , which is my company now .
and we have developed more than one new type of airplane every year since 1982 .
and there 's a lot of them that i actually can 't show you on this chart .
the most impressive airplane ever , i believe , was designed only a dozen years after the first operational jet .
stayed in service till it was too rusty to fly , taken out of service .
we retreated in ' 98 back to something that was developed in ' 56 . what ?
the most impressive spaceship ever , i believe , was a grumman lunar lander . it was a -- you know , it landed on the moon , take off of the moon , didn 't need any maintenance guys -- that 's kind of cool .
we 've lost that capability . we abandoned it in ' 72 .
this thing was designed three years after gagarin first flew in space in 1961 .
three years , and we can 't do that now . crazy .
talk very briefly about innovation cycles , things that grow , have a lot of activity ; they die out when they 're replaced by something else .
these things tend to happen every 25 years . 40 years long , with an overlap . you can put that statement on all kinds of different technologies . the interesting thing --
by the way , the speed here , excuse me , higher-speed travel is the title of these innovation cycles . there is none here .
these two new airplanes are the same speed as the dc8 that was done in 1958 .
here 's the biggie , and that is , you don 't have innovation cycles if the government develops and the government uses it .
you know , a good example , of course , is the darpa net .
computers were used for artillery first , then irs .
but when we got it , now you have all the level of activity , all the benefit from it . private sector has to do it .
keep that in mind . i put down innovation --
i 've looked for innovation cycles in space ; i found none .
the very first year , starting when gagarin went in space , and a few weeks later alan shepherd , there were five manned space flights in the world -- the very first year .
in 2003 , everyone that the united states sent to space was killed .
there were only three or four flights in 2003 .
in 2004 , there were only two flights : two russian soyuz flights to the international manned station . and i had to fly three in mojave with my little group of a couple dozen people in order to get to a total of five , which was the number the same year back in 1961 .
there is no growth . there 's no activity . there 's no nothing .
this is a picture here taken from spaceshipone .
this is a picture here taken from orbit .
our goal is to make it so that you can see this picture and really enjoy that .
we know how to do it for sub-orbital flying now , do it safe enough -- at least as safe as the early airlines -- so that can be done .
and i think i want to talk a little bit about why we had the courage to go out and try that as a small company .
well , first of all , what 's going to happen next ?
the first industry will be a high volume , a lot of players .
there 's another one announced just last week .
and it will be sub-orbital . and the reason it has to be sub-orbital is , there is not solutions for adequate safety to fly the public to orbit . the governments have been doing this -- three governments have been doing this for 45 years , and still four percent of the people that have left the atmosphere have died .
that 's -- you don 't want to run a business with that kind of a safety record .
it 'll be very high volume ; we think 100,000 people will fly by 2020 .
i can 't tell you when this will start , because i don 't want my competition to know my schedule .
but i think once it does , we will find solutions ,
and very quickly , you 'll see those resort hotels in orbit .
and that real easy thing to do , which is a swing around the moon so you have this cool view . and that will be really cool .
because the moon doesn 't have an atmosphere -- you can do an elliptical orbit and miss it by 10 feet if you want .
oh , it 's going to be so much fun .
ok . my critics say , " hey , rutan 's just spending a lot of these billionaires ' money for joyrides for billionaires .
what 's this ? this is not a transportation system ; it 's just for fun . "
and i used to be bothered by that , and then i got to thinking ,
well , wait a minute . i bought my first apple computer in 1978
and i bought it because i could say , " i got a computer at my house and you don 't .
'what do you use it for ? ' come over . it does frogger . " ok .
not the bank 's computer or lockheed 's computer , but the home computer was for games .
for a whole decade it was for fun -- we didn 't even know what it was for .
but what happened , the fact that we had this big industry , big development , big improvement and capability and so on , and they get out there in enough homes -- we were ripe for a new invention .
and the inventor is in this audience .
al gore invented the internet and because of that , something that we used for a whole year -- excuse me -- a whole decade for fun , became everything -- our commerce , our research , our communication and , if we let the google guys think for another couple weekends , we can add a dozen more things to the list .
and it won 't be very long before you won 't be able to convince kids that we didn 't always have computers in our homes .
so fun is defendable .
ok , i want to show you kind of a busy chart , but in it is my prediction with what 's going to happen .
and in it also brings up another point , right here .
there 's a group of people that have come forward -- and you don 't know all of them -- but the ones that have come forward were inspired as young children , this little three- to 15-year-old age , by us going to orbit and going to the moon here , right in this time period .
paul allen , elan musk , richard branson , jeff bezos , the ansari family , which is now funding the russians ' sub-orbital thing , bob bigelow , a private space station , and carmack .
these people are taking money and putting it in an interesting area , and i think it 's a lot better than they put it in an area of a better cell phone or something -- but they 're putting it in very -- areas and this will lead us into this kind of capability , and it will lead us into the next really big thing and it will allow us to explore . and i think eventually it will allow us to colonize and to keep us from going extinct .
they were inspired by big progress . but look at the progress that 's going on after that .
there were a couple of examples here .
the military fighters had a -- highest-performance military airplane was the sr71 . it went a whole life cycle , got too rusty to fly ,
and was taken out of service . the concorde doubled the speed for airline travel .
it went a whole life cycle without competition , took out of service . and we 're stuck back here with the same kind of capability for military fighters and commercial airline travel that we had back in the late ' 50s .
but something is out there to inspire our kids now .
and i 'm talking about if you 've got a baby now , or if you 've got a 10-year-old now .
what 's out there is there 's something really interesting going to happen here .
relatively soon , you 'll be able to buy a ticket and fly higher and faster than the highest-performance military operational airplane . it 's never happened before .
the fact that they have stuck here with this kind of performance has been , well , you know , you win the war in 12 minutes ; why do you need something better ?
but i think when you guys start buying tickets and flying sub-orbital flights to space , very soon -- wait a minute , what 's happening here , we 'll have military fighters with sub-orbital capability , and i think very soon this .
but the interesting thing about it is the commercial guys are going to go first .
ok , i look forward to a new " capitalist 's space race , " let 's call it .
you remember the space race in the ' 60s was for national prestige , because we lost the first two milestones .
we didn 't lose them technically . the fact that we had the hardware to put something in orbit when we let von braun fly it --
you can argue that 's not a technical loss .
sputnik wasn 't a technical loss , but it was a prestige loss .
america -- the world saw america as not being the leader in technology , and that was a very strong thing .
and then we flew alan shepherd weeks after gagarin , not months or decades , or whatever . so we had the capability .
but america lost . we lost . and because of that , we made a big jump to recover it .
well , again , what 's interesting here is we 've lost to the russians on the first couple of milestones already .
you cannot buy a ticket commercially to fly into space in america --
can 't do it . you can buy it in russia .
you can fly with russian hardware . this is available because a russian space program is starving ,
and it 's nice for them to get 20 million here and there to take one of the seats .
it 's commercial . it can be defined as space tourism . they are also offering a trip to go on this whip around the moon , like apollo 8 was done .
100 million bucks -- hey , i can go to the moon .
but , you know , would you have thought back in the ' 60s , when the space race was going on , that the first commercial capitalist-like thing to do to buy a ticket to go to the moon would be in russian hardware ?
and would you have thought , would the russians have thought , that when they first go to the moon in their developed hardware , the guys inside won 't be russians ? maybe it 'll probably be a japanese or an american billionaire ? well , that 's weird : you know , it really is .
but anyway , i think we need to beat them again .
i think what we 'll do is we 'll see a successful , very successful , private space flight industry . whether we 're first or not really doesn 't matter .
the russians actually flew a supersonic transport before the concorde .
and then they flew a few cargo flights , and took it out of service .
i think you kind of see the same kind of parallel when the commercial stuff is offered .
ok , we 'll talk just a little bit about commercial development for human space flight .
this little thing says here : five times what nasa 's doing by 2020 . i want to tell you , already there 's about 1.5 billion to 1.7 billion investment in private space flight that is not government at all -- already , worldwide . if you read -- if you google it , you 'll find about half of that money , but there 's twice of that being committed out there -- not spent yet , but being committed and planned for the next few years . hey , that 's pretty big .
i 'm predicting , though , as profitable as this industry is going to be -- and it certainly is profitable when you fly people at 200,000 dollars on something that you can actually operate at a tenth of that cost , or less -- this is going to be very profitable .
i predict , also , that the investment that will flow into this will be somewhere around half of what the u.s. taxpayer spends for nasa 's manned spacecraft work .
and every dollar that flows into that will be spent more efficiently by a factor of 10 to 15 . and what that means is before we know it , the progress in human space flight , with no taxpayer dollars , will be at a level of about five times as much as the current nasa budgets for human space flight .
and that is because it 's us . it 's private industry .
you should never depend on the government to do this sort of stuff --
and we 've done it for a long time . the naca , before nasa , never developed an airliner and never ran an airline .
but nasa is developing the space liner , always has , and runs the only space line , ok . and we 've shied away from it because we 're afraid of it . but starting back in june of 2004 , when i showed that a little group out there actually can do it , can get a start with it , everything changed after that time .
ok , thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / william _ li.html
william li presents a new way to think about treating cancer and other diseases : anti-angiogenesis , preventing the growth of blood vessels that feed a tumor . the crucial first step : eating cancer-fighting foods that cut off the supply lines and beat cancer at its own game .
cancer , food , medicine , science , technology
859
william li : can we eat to starve cancer ?
good afternoon .
there 's a medical revolution happening all around us , and it 's one that 's going to help us conquer some of society 's most dreaded conditions , including cancer .
the revolution is called angiogenesis , and it 's based on the process that our bodies use to grow blood vessels .
so why should we care about blood vessels ?
well , the human body is literally packed with them : 60,000 miles worth in a typical adult .
end to end , that would form a line that would circle the earth twice .
the smallest blood vessels are called capillaries ;
we 've got 19 billion of them in our bodies .
and these are the vessels of life , and , as i 'll show you , they can also be the vessels of death .
now the remarkable thing about blood vessels is that they have this ability to adapt to whatever environment they 're growing in .
for example , in the liver they form channels to detoxify the blood ;
in the lung they line air sacs for gas exchange ;
in muscle they corkscrew so that muscles can contract without cutting off circulation ;
and in nerves they course along like power lines , keeping those nerves alive .
we get most of these blood vessels when we 're actually still in the womb ,
and what that means is that as adults , blood vessels don 't normally grow . except in a few special circumstances :
in women , blood vessels grow every month to build the lining of the uterus ;
during pregnancy , they form the placenta , which connects mom and baby .
and after injury , blood vessels actually have to grow under the scab in order to heal a wound .
and this is actually what it looks like ,
hundreds of blood vessels all growing toward the center of the wound .
so the body has the ability to regulate the amount of blood vessels that are present at any given time .
it does this through an elaborate and elegant system of checks and balances , stimulators and inhibitors of angiogenesis , such that , when we need a brief burst of blood vessels , the body can do this by releasing stimulators , proteins called angiogenic factors that act as natural fertilizer and stimulate new blood vessels to sprout . and when those excess vessels are no longer needed , the body prunes them back to baseline using naturally occurring inhibitors of angiogenesis .
now there are other situations where we start beneath the baseline and we need to grow more blood vessels just to get back to normal levels --
for example , after an injury --
and a body can do that too , but only to that normal level , that set point .
but what we now know is that for a number of diseases , there are defects in the system where the body can 't prune back extra blood vessels or can 't grow enough new ones in the right place at the right time .
and in these situations , angiogenesis is out of balance . and when angiogenesis is out of balance , a myriad of diseases result .
for example , insufficient angiogenesis -- not enough blood vessels -- leads to wounds that don 't heal , heart attacks , legs without circulation , death from stroke , nerve damage .
and on the other end , excessive angiogenesis -- too many blood vessels -- drives disease ,
and we see this in cancer , blindness , arthritis , obesity , alzheimer 's disease .
in total , there are more than 70 major diseases affecting more than a billion people worldwide , that all look on the surface to be different from one another , but all actually share abnormal angiogenesis as their common denominator .
and this realization is allowing us to reconceptualize the way that we actually approach these diseases by controlling angiogenesis .
now i 'm going to focus on cancer because angiogenesis is a hallmark of cancer , every type of cancer .
so here we go .
this is a tumor : dark , gray , ominous mass growing inside a brain .
and under the microscope , you can see hundreds of these brown staining blood vessels , capillaries that are feeding cancer cells , bringing oxygen and nutrients .
but cancers don 't start out like this .
and , in fact , cancers don 't start out with a blood supply .
they start out as small , microscopic nests of cells that can only grow to one half a cubic millimeter in size ;
that 's the tip of a ballpoint pen .
then they can 't get any larger because they don 't have a blood supply , so they don 't have enough oxygen or nutrients .
in fact , we 're probably forming these microscopic cancers all the time in our body .
autopsy studies from people who died in car accidents have shown that about 40 percent of women between the ages of 40 and 50 actually have microscopic cancers in their breasts ,
about 50 percent of men in their 50s and 60s have microscopic prostate cancers ,
and virtually 100 percent of us , by the time we reach our 70s , will have microscopic cancers growing in our thyroid .
yet , without a blood supply , most of these cancers will never become dangerous .
dr. judah folkman , who was my mentor and who was the pioneer of the angiogenesis field , once called this " cancer without disease . "
so the body 's ability to balance angiogenesis , when it 's working properly , prevents blood vessels from feeding cancers .
and this turns out to be one of our most important defense mechanisms against cancer .
in fact , if you actually block angiogenesis and prevent blood vessels from ever reaching cancer cells , tumors simply can 't grow up .
but once angiogenesis occurs , cancers can grow exponentially .
and this is actually how a cancer goes from being harmless to deadly .
cancer cells mutate and they gain the ability to release lots of those angiogenic factors , natural fertilizer , that tip the balance in favor of blood vessels invading the cancer .
and once those vessels invade the cancer , it can expand , it can invade local tissues .
and the same vessels that are feeding tumors allow cancer cells to exit into the circulation as metastases .
and , unfortunately , this late stage of cancer is the one at which it 's most likely to be diagnosed , when angiogenesis is already turned on and cancer cells are growing like wild .
so , if angiogenesis is a tipping point between a harmless cancer and a harmful one , then one major part of the angiogenesis revolution is a new approach to treating cancer by cutting off the blood supply .
we call this antiangiogenic therapy , and it 's completely different from chemotherapy because it selectively aims at the blood vessels that are feeding the cancers .
and we can do this because tumor blood vessels are unlike normal , healthy vessels we see in other places of the body :
they 're abnormal ; they 're very poorly constructed ; and , because of that , they 're highly vulnerable to treatments that target them .
in effect , when we give cancer patients antiangiogenic therapy -- here , an experimental drug for a glioma , which is a type of brain tumor -- you can see that there are dramatic changes that occur when the tumor is being starved .
here 's a woman with a breast cancer being treated with the antiangiogenic drug called avastin , which is fda approved . and you can see that the halo of blood flow disappears after treatment .
well , i 've just shown you two very different types of cancer that both responded to antiangiogenic therapy .
so , a few years ago , i asked myself , " can we take this one step further and treat other cancers , even in other species ? "
so here is a nine year-old boxer named milo who had a very aggressive tumor called a malignant neurofibroma growing on his shoulder .
it invaded into his lungs .
his veterinarian only gave him three months to live .
so we created a cocktail of antiangiogenic drugs that could be mixed into his dog food as well as an antiangiogenic cream that could be applied on the surface of the tumor .
and within a few weeks of treatment , we were able to slow down that cancer 's growth such that we were ultimately able to extend milo 's survival to six times what the veterinarian had initially predicted , all with a very good quality of life .
and we subsequently treated more than 600 dogs .
we have about a 60 percent response rate and improved survival for these pets that were about to be euthanized .
so let me show you a couple of even more interesting examples .
this is 20-year-old dolphin living in florida , and she had these lesions in her mouth that , over the course of three years , developed into invasive squamous cell cancers .
so we created an antiangiogenic paste .
we had it painted on top of the cancer three times a week .
and over the course of seven months , the cancers completely disappeared , and the biopsies came back as normal .
here 's a cancer growing on the lip of a wuarter horse named guinness .
it 's a very , very deadly type of cancer called an angiosarcoma .
it had already spread to his lymph nodes , so we used an antiangiogenic skin cream for the lip and an oral cocktail , so we could treat from the inside as well as the outside .
and over the course of six months , he experienced a complete remission .
and here he is six years later , guinness , with his very happy owner .
now , obviously , antiangiogenic therapy could be used for a wide range of cancers .
and , in fact , the first pioneering treatments for people , as well as dogs , are already becoming available .
there 's 12 different drugs , 11 different cancer types . but the real question is : how well do these work in practice ?
so here 's actually the patient survival data from eight different types of cancer .
the bars represent survival time taken from the era in which there was only chemotherapy , or surgery , or radiation available .
but starting in 2004 , when antiangiogenic therapies first became available , well you can see that there has been a 70 to 100 percent improvement in survival for people with kidney cancer , multiple myeloma , colorectal cancer , and gastrointestinal stromal tumors .
that 's impressive .
but for other tumors and cancer types , the improvements have only been modest .
so i started asking myself , " why haven 't we been able to do better ? "
and the answer , to me , is obvious ; we 're treating cancer too late in the game , when it 's already established and , oftentimes , it 's already spread or metastasized .
and as a doctor , i know that once a disease progresses to an advanced stage , achieving a cure can be difficult , if not impossible .
so i went back to the biology of angiogenesis and started thinking : could the answer to cancer be preventing angiogenesis , beating cancer at its own game so the cancers could never become dangerous ?
this could help healthy people as well as people who 've already beaten cancer once or twice and want to find a way to keep it from coming back .
so to look for a way to prevent angiogenesis in cancer , i went back to look at cancer 's causes .
and what really intrigued me was when i saw that diet accounts for 30 to 35 percent of environmentally caused cancers .
now , the obvious thing is to think about what we could remove from our diet , what to strip out , take away . but i actually took a completely opposite approach and began asking : what could we be adding to our diet that 's naturally antiangiogenic , that could boost the body 's defense system and beat back those blood vessels that are feeding cancers ?
in other words , can we eat to starve cancer ?
well , the answer 's yes ,
and i 'm going to show you how .
our search for this has taken us to the market , the farm and to the spice cabinet , because what we 've discovered is that mother nature has laced a large number of foods and beverages and herbs with naturally occurring inhibitors of angiogenesis .
so here 's a test system we developed .
at the center is a ring from which hundreds of blood vessels are growing out in a starburst fashion .
and we can use this system to test dietary factors at concentrations that are obtainable by eating .
so let me show you what happens when we put in an extract from red grapes .
the active ingredient 's resveratrol ,
it 's also found in red wine .
this inhibits abnormal angiogenesis by 60 percent .
here 's what happens when we added an extract from strawberries ;
it potently inhibits angiogenesis .
and extract from soybeans .
and here is a growing list of our antiangiogenic foods and beverages that we 're interested in studying . for each food type , we believe that there are different potencies within different strains and varietals .
and we want to measure this because , well , while you 're eating a strawberry or drinking tea , why not select the one that 's most potent for preventing cancer .
so here are four different teas that we 've tested .
they 're all common ones : chinese jasmine , japanese sencha , earl grey and a special blend that we prepared .
and you can see clearly that the teas vary in their potency from less potent to more potent .
but what 's very cool is when we actually combined the two less potent teas together , the combination , the blend , is more potent than either one alone .
this means there 's food synergy .
here 's some more data from our testing .
now , in the lab , we can simulate tumor angiogenesis represented here in a black bar .
and using this system , we can test the potency of cancer drugs .
so the shorter the bar , less angiogenesis , that 's good .
and here are some common drugs that have been associated with reducing the risk of cancer in people .
statins , nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and a few others , they inhibit angiogenesis too .
and here are the dietary factors going head to head against these drugs .
you can see , they clearly hold their own and , in some cases , they 're more potent than the actual drugs .
soy , parsley , garlic , grapes , berries ; i could go home and cook a tasty meal using these ingredients .
so imagine if we could create the world 's first rating system in which we could score foods according to their antiangiogenic , cancer-preventative properties .
and that 's what we 're doing right now .
now , i 've shown you a bunch of lab data , and so the real question is : what is the evidence in people that eating certain foods can reduce angiogenesis in cancer ?
well , the best example i know is a study of 79,000 men followed over 20 years , in which it was found that men who consumed cooked tomatoes two to three times a week had up to a 50 percent reduction in their risk of developing prostate cancer .
now , we know that tomatoes are a good source of lycopene , and lycopene is antiangiogenic .
but what 's even more interesting from this study is that in those men who did develop prostate cancer , those who ate more servings of tomato sauce actually had fewer blood vessels feeding their cancer .
so this human study is a prime example of how antiangiogenic substances present in food and consumed at practical levels can impact on cancer .
and we 're now studying the role of a healthy diet with dean ornish at ucsf and tufts university on the role of this healthy diet on markers of angiogenesis that we can find in the bloodstream .
now , obviously , what i 've shared with you has some far-ranging implications , even beyond cancer research .
because if we 're right , it could impact on consumer education , food services , public health and even the insurance industry .
and , in fact , some insurance companies are already beginning to think along these lines .
check out this ad from blue cross blue shield of minnesota .
and for many people around the world , dietary cancer prevention may be the only practical solution because not everybody can afford expensive end-stage cancer treatments , but everybody could benefit from a healthy diet based on local , sustainable , antiangiogenic crops .
now , finally , i 've talked to you about food , and i 've talked to you about cancer , so there 's just one more disease that i have to tell you about and that 's obesity .
because it turns out that adipose tissue , fat , is highly angiogenesis dependent .
and , like a tumor , fat grows when blood vessels grow .
so the question is : can we shrink fat by cutting off its blood supply ?
so the top curve shows the body weight of a genetically obese mouse that eats nonstop until it turns fat , like this furry tennis ball .
and the bottom curve is the weight of a normal mouse .
if you take the obese mouse and give it an angiogenesis inhibitor , it loses weight .
stop the treatment , gains the weight back .
restart the treatment , loses the weight again .
stop the treatment , it gains the weight back .
and , in fact , you can cycle the weight up and down simply by inhibiting angiogenesis .
so this approach that we 're taking for cancer prevention may also have an application for obesity .
the really , truly interesting thing about this is that we can 't take these obese mice and make them lose more weight than what the normal mouse 's weight is supposed to be .
in other words , we can 't create supermodel mice .
and this speaks to the role of angiogenesis in regulating healthy set points .
albert szent-gyorgi once said that , " discovery consists of seeing what everyone has seen , and thinking what no one has thought . "
i hope i 've convinced you that , for diseases like cancer , obesity and other conditions , that there may be a great power in attacking their common denominator : angiogenesis .
and that 's what i think the world needs now . thank you .
june cohen : i have a quick question for you . so these drugs aren 't exactly ... they 're not exactly in mainstream cancer treatments right now .
for anyone out here who has cancer , what would you recommend ?
do you recommend pursuing these treatments now , for most cancer patients ?
william li : so there are antiangiogenic treatments that are fda approved ,
and if you 're a cancer patient or working for one or advocating for one , you should ask about them .
and there are many clinical trials .
the angiogenesis foundation is following almost 300 companies , and there are about 100 more drugs in that pipeline .
so consider the approved ones , look for clinical trials , but then between what the doctor can do for you , we need to start asking what can we do for ourselves .
and this is one of the themes that i 'm talking about is we can empower ourselves to do the things that doctors can 't do for us , which is to use knowledge and take action .
and if mother nature has given us some clues , we think that there might be a new future in the value of how we eat .
and what we eat is really our chemotherapy three times a day .
jc : right . and along those lines , for people who might have risk factors for cancer , would you recommend pursuing any treatments sort of prophylactically or simply pursuing the right diet with lots of tomato sauce ?
wl : well , you know , there 's abundant epidemiological evidence .
and i think in the information age , it doesn 't take long to go to a credible source like pubmed , the national library of medicine , to look for epidemiological studies for cancer risk reduction based on diet and based on common medications .
and that 's certainly something that anybody can look into .
jc : okay . well , thank you so much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / scott _ kim _ takes _ apart _ the _ art _ of _ puzzles.html
at the 2008 eg conference , famed puzzle designer scott kim takes us inside the puzzle-maker 's frame of mind . sampling his career 's work , he introduces a few of the most popular types , and shares the fascinations that inspired some of his best .
art , computers , design , gaming , math , video
705
scott kim takes apart the art of puzzles
for the last 20 years i 've been designing puzzles .
and i 'm here today to give you a little tour , starting from the very first puzzle i designed , through what i 'm doing now .
i 've designed puzzles for books , printed things .
i 'm the puzzle columnist for discover magazine .
i 've been doing that for about 10 years .
i have a monthly puzzle calendar .
i do toys . the bulk of my work is in computer games .
i did puzzles for " bejeweled . "
i didn 't invent " bejeweled . " i can 't take credit for that .
so , very first puzzle , sixth grade , my teacher said , " oh , let 's see , that guy , he likes to make stuff .
i 'll have him cut out letters out of construction paper for the board . "
i thought this was a great assignment .
and so here is what i came up with . i start fiddling with it .
i came up with this letter . this is a letter of the alphabet that 's been folded just once .
the question is , which letter is it if i unfold it ?
one hint : it 's not " l. "
it could be an " l , " of course .
so , what else could it be ?
yeah , a lot of you got it .
oh yeah . so , clever thing .
now , that was my first puzzle . i got hooked .
i created something new , i was very excited because , you know , i 'd made crossword puzzles , but that 's sort of like filling in somebody else 's matrix .
this was something really original . i got hooked .
i read martin gardner 's columns in scientific american .
went on , and eventually decided to devote myself , full time , to that .
now , i should pause and say , what do i mean by puzzle ?
a puzzle is a problem that is fun to solve and has a right answer .
" fun to solve , " as opposed to everyday problems , which , frankly , are not very well-designed puzzles .
you know , they might have a solution . it might take a long time . nobody wrote down the rules clearly .
who designed this ?
it 's like , you know , life is not a very well-written story so we have to hire writers to make movies .
well , i take everyday problems , and i make puzzles out of them .
and " right answer , " of course there might be more than one right answer ; many puzzles have more than one .
but as opposed to a couple other forms of play , toys and games -- by toy i mean , something you play with that doesn 't have a particular goal .
you can create one out of legos . you know , you can do anything you want .
or competitive games like chess where , well , you 're not trying to solve ... you can make a chess puzzle , but the goal really is to beat another player .
i consider that puzzles are an art form .
they 're very ancient . it goes back as long as there is written history .
it 's a very small form , like a joke , a poem , a magic trick or a song , very compact form .
at worst , they 're throwaways , they 're for amusement .
but at best they can reach for something more and create a memorable impression .
the progression of my career that you 'll see is looking for creating puzzles that have a memorable impact .
so , one thing i found early on , when i started doing computer games , is that i could create puzzles that will alter your perception .
i 'll show you how . here is a famous one .
so , it 's two profiles in black , or a white vase in the middle .
this is called a figure-ground illusion .
the artist m.c. escher exploited that in some of his wonderful prints . here we have " day and night . "
here is what i did with figure and ground .
so , here we have " figure " in black .
here we have " figure " in white .
and it 's all part of the same design .
the background to one is the other .
originally i tried to do the words " figure " and " ground . "
but i couldn 't do that , i realized . i changed the problem .
it 's all " figure . "
a few other things . here is my name .
and that turns into the title of my first book , " inversions . "
these sorts of designs now go by the word " ambigram . "
i 'll show you just a couple others . here we have the numbers one through 10 , the digits zero through nine , actually .
each letter here is one of these digits .
not strictly an ambigram in the conventional sense .
i like pushing on what an ambigram can mean .
here 's the word " mirror . " no , it 's not the same upside-down . it 's the same this way .
and a marvelous fellow from the media lab who just got appointed head of risd , is john maeda .
and so i did this for him . it 's sort of a visual canon .
and recently in magic magazine i 've done a number of ambigrams on magician 's names .
so here we have penn and teller , same upside-down . this appears in my puzzle calendar .
okay , let 's go back to the slides .
thank you very much .
now , those are fun to look at .
now how would you do it interactively ?
for a while i was an interface designer .
and so i think a lot about interaction .
well , let 's first of all simplify the vases illusion ,
make the thing on the right .
now , if you could pick up the black vase , it would look like the figure on top .
if you could pick up the white area , it would look like the figure on the bottom .
well , you can 't do that physically ,
but on a computer you can do it . let 's switch over to the p.c .
and here it is , figure-ground .
the goal here is to take the pieces on the left and make them so they look like the shape on the right .
and this follows the rules i just said : any black area that is surrounded by white can be picked up . but that is also true of any white area .
so , here we got the white area in the middle , and you can pick it up .
i 'll just go one step further .
so , here is -- here is a couple pieces . move them together , and now this is an active piece .
you can really get inside somebody 's perception and have them experience something .
it 's like the old maxim of " you can tell somebody something and show them , but if they do it they really learn it . "
here is another thing you can do .
there is a game called rush hour . this is one of the true masterpieces in puzzle design besides rubik 's cube .
so , here we have a crowded parking lot with cars all over the place .
the goal is to get the red car out . it 's a sliding block puzzle .
it 's made by the company think fun .
it 's done very well . i love this puzzle .
well , let 's play one . here . so , here is a very simple puzzle .
well , that 's too simple , let 's add another piece .
okay , so how would you solve this one ?
well , move the blue one out of the way .
here , let 's make it a little harder . still pretty easy .
now we 'll make it harder , a little harder .
now , this one is a little bit trickier . you know ? what do you do here ?
the first move is going to be what ?
you 're going to move the blue one up in order to get the lavender one to the right .
and you can make puzzles like this one that aren 't solvable at all .
those four are locked in a pinwheel ; you can 't get them apart .
i wanted to make a sequel .
i didn 't come up with the original idea . but this is another way i work as an inventor is to create a sequel .
i came up with this . this is railroad rush hour .
it 's the same basic game except i introduced a new piece , a square piece that can move both horizontally and vertically .
in the other game the cars can only move forward and back .
created a whole bunch of levels for it . now i 'm making it available to schools .
and it includes exercises that show you not just how to solve these puzzles , but how to extract the principles that will let you solve mathematical puzzles or problems in science , other areas .
so , i 'm really interested in you learning how to make your own puzzles as well as just me creating them .
garry trudeau calls himself an investigative cartoonist .
you know , he does a lot of research before he writes a cartoon .
in discover magazine , i 'm an investigative puzzle maker .
i got interested in gene sequencing .
and i said , " well , how on earth can you come up with a sequence of the base pairs in dna ? "
cut up the dna , you sequence individual pieces , and then you look for overlaps ,
and you basically match them at the edges . and i said , " this is kind of like a jigsaw puzzle , except the pieces overlap . "
so , here is what i created for discover magazine .
and it has to be solvable in a magazine .
you know , you can 't cut out the pieces and move them around .
so , here is the nine pieces . and you 're supposed to put them into this grid .
and you have to choose pieces that overlap on the edge .
there is only one solution . it 's not that hard .
but it takes some persistence .
and when you 're done , it makes this design , which , if you squint , is the word " helix . "
so , that 's the form of the puzzle coming out of the content , rather than the other way around .
here is a couple more . here is a physics-based puzzle .
which way will these fall ?
one of these weighs 50 pounds , 30 pounds and 10 pounds .
and depending on which one weighs which amount , they 'll fall different directions .
and here is a puzzle based on color mixing .
i separated this image into cyan , magenta , yellow , black , the basic printing colors , and then mixed up the separations , and you get these peculiar pictures .
which separations were mixed up to make those pictures ?
gets you thinking about color .
finally , what i 'm doing now . so , shufflebrain.com , website you can go visit , i joined up with my wife , amy-jo kim .
she could easily be up here giving a talk about her work .
so , we 're making smart games for social media .
i 'll explain what that means . we 're looking at three trends .
this is what 's going on in the games industry right now .
first of all , you know , for a long time computer games meant things like " doom , " where you 're going around shooting things , very violent games , very fast , aimed at teenage boys . right ? that 's who plays computer games .
well , guess what ? that 's changing .
" bejeweled " is a big hit . it was the game that really broke open what 's called casual games .
and the main players are over 35 , and are female .
then recently " rock band " has been a big hit .
and it 's a game you play with other people . it 's very physical . it looks nothing like a traditional game . this is what 's becoming the dominant form of electronic gaming .
now , within that there is some interesting things happening .
there is also a trend towards games that are good for you . why ? well , we aging boomers , baby boomers , we 're eating our healthy food , we 're exercising . what about our minds ?
oh no , our parents are getting alzheimer 's . we better do something .
turns out doing crossword puzzles can stave off some of the effects of alzheimer 's .
so , we got games like " brain age " coming out for the nintendo ds , huge hit .
a lot of people do sudoku . in fact some doctors prescribe it .
and then there is social media , and what 's happening on the internet .
everybody now considers themselves a creator , and not just a viewer .
and what does this add up to ?
here is what we see coming .
it 's games that fit into a healthy lifestyle .
they 're part of your life . they 're not necessarily a separate thing .
and they are both , something that is good for you , and they 're fun .
i 'm a puzzle guy . my wife is an expert in social media .
and we decided to combine our skills . our first game is called " photo grab . " the game takes about a minute and 20 seconds .
this is your first time playing my game . okay .
let 's see how well we can do . there are three images . and we have 24 seconds each .
where is that ?
i 'll play as fast as i can .
but if you can see it , shout out the answer .
you get more -- down , okay , yeah where is that ?
oh , yeah . there , okay . j-o and -- i guess that 's that part . we got the bow . that bow helps .
that 's his hair . you get a lot of figure-ground problems .
yeah , that one is easy . okay . so , ahhh ! okay on to the next one .
okay , so that 's the lens .
anybody ?
looks like a black shape . so , where is that ?
that 's the corner of the whole thing .
yeah , i 've played this image before , but even when i make up my own puzzles -- and you can put your own images in here .
and we have people all over the world doing that now .
there we are . visit shufflebrain.com if you want to try it yourself . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eve _ ensler _ embrace _ your _ inner _ girl.html
in this passionate talk , eve ensler declares that there is a girl cell in us all -- a cell that we have all been taught to suppress . she tells heartfelt stories of girls around the world who have overcome shocking adversity and violence to reveal the astonishing strength of being a girl .
culture , gender , self , social change , women
751
eve ensler : embrace your inner girl
namaste . good morning .
i 'm very happy to be here in india .
and i 've been thinking a lot about what i have learned over these last particularly 11 years with v-day and " the vagina monologues , " traveling the world , essentially meeting with women and girls across the planet to stop violence against women .
what i want to talk about today is this particular cell , or grouping of cells , that is in each and every one of us .
and i want to call it the girl cell .
and it 's in men as well as in women .
i want you to imagine that this particular grouping of cells is central to the evolution of our species and the continuation of the human race .
and i want you imagine that at some point in history a group of powerful people invested in owning and controlling the world understood that the suppression of this particular cell , the oppression of these cells , the reinterpretation of these cells , the undermining of these cells , getting us to believe in the weakness of these cells and the crushing , eradicating , destroying , reducing these cells , basically began the process of killing off the girl cell , which was , by the way , patriarchy .
i want you to imagine that the girl is a chip in the huge macrocosm of collective consciousness .
and it is essential to balance , to wisdom and to actually the future of all of us .
and then i want you to imagine that this girl cell is compassion , and it 's empathy , and it 's passion itself , and it 's vulnerability , and it 's openness , and it 's intensity , and it 's association , and it 's relationship , and it is intuitive .
and then let 's think how compassion informs wisdom , and that vulnerability is our greatest strength , and that emotions have inherent logic , which lead to radical , appropriate , saving action .
and then let 's remember that we 've been taught the exact opposite by the powers that be , that compassion clouds your thinking , that vulnerability is weakness , that emotions are not to be trusted , and you 're not supposed to take things personally , which is one of my favorites .
i think the whole world has essentially been brought up not to be a girl .
how do we bring up boys ? what does it mean to be a boy ?
to be a boy really means not to be a girl .
to be a man means not to be a girl .
to be a woman means not to be a girl .
to be strong means not to be a girl .
to be a leader means not to be a girl .
i actually think that being a girl is so powerful that we 've had to train everyone not to be that .
and i 'd also like to say that the irony of course , is that denying girl , suppressing girl , suppressing emotion , refusing feeling has lead thus here .
where we have now come to live in a world where the most extreme forms of violence , the most horrific poverty , genocide , mass rapes , the destruction of the earth , is completely out of control .
and because we have suppressed our girl cells and suppressed our girl-ship , we do not feel what is going on .
so , we are not being charged with the adequate response to what is happening .
i want to talk a little bit about the democratic republic of congo .
for me , it was the turning point of my life .
i have spent a lot of time there in the last three years .
i feel up to that point i had seen a lot in the world , a lot of violence .
i essentially lived in the rape mines of the world for the last 12 years .
but the democratic republic of congo really was the turning point in my soul .
i went and i spent time in a place called bukavu in a hospital called the panzi hospital , with a doctor who was as close to a saint as any person i 've ever met .
his name is dr. denis mukwege .
in the congo , for those of you who don 't know , there has been a war raging for the last 12 years , a war that has killed nearly six million people .
it is estimated that somewhere between 300,000 and 500,000 women have been raped there .
when i spent my first weeks at panzi hospital i sat with women who sat and lined up every day to tell me their stories .
their stories were so horrific , and so mind-blowing and so on the other side of human existence , that to be perfectly honest with you , i was shattered .
and i will tell you that what happened is through that shattering , listening to the stories of eight-year-old girls who had their insides eviscerated , who had guns and bayonets and things shoved inside them so they had holes , literally , inside them where their pee and poop came out of them .
listening to the story of 80-year-old women who were tied to chains and circled , and where groups of men would come and rape them periodically , all in the name of economic exploitation to steal the minerals so the west can have it and profit from them .
my mind was so shattered .
but what happened for me is that that shattering actually emboldened me
in a way i have never been emboldened .
that shattering , that opening of my girl cell , that kind of massive breakthrough of my heart allowed me to become more courageous , and braver , and actually more clever than i had been in the past in my life .
i want to say that i think the powers that be know that empire-building is actually -- that feelings get in the way of empire-building .
feelings get in the way of the mass acquisition of the earth , and excavating the earth , and destroying things .
i remember , for example , when my father , who was very , very violent , used to beat me .
and he would actually say , while he was beating me , " don 't you cry . don 't you dare cry . "
because my crying somehow exposed his brutality to him .
and even in the moment he didn 't want to be reminded of what he was doing .
i know that we have systematically annihilated the girl cell .
and i want to say we 've annihilated it in men as well as in women .
and i think in some ways we 've been much harsher to men in the annihilation of their girl cell .
i see how boys have been brought up , and i see this across the planet : to be tough , to be hardened , to distance themselves from their tenderness , to not cry .
i actually realized once in kosovo , when i watched a man break down , that bullets are actually hardened tears , that when we don 't allow men to have their girl self and have their vulnerability , and have their compassion , and have their hearts , that they become hardened and hurtful and violent .
and i think we have taught men to be secure when they are insecure , to pretend they know things when they don 't know things , or why would we be where we are ?
to pretend they 're not a mess when they are a mess .
and i will tell you a very funny story .
on my way here on the airplane , i was walking up and down the aisle of the plane .
and all these men , literally at least 10 men , were in their little seats watching chick flicks .
and they were all alone , and i thought , " this is the secret life of men . "
i 've traveled , as i said , to many , many countries , and i 've seen , if we do what we do to the girl inside us then obviously it 's horrific to think what we do to girls in the world .
and we heard from sunitha yesterday , and kavita about what we do to girls .
but i just want to say that i 've met girls with knife wounds and cigarette burns , who are literally being treated like ashtrays .
i 've seen girls be treated like garbage cans .
i 've seen girls who were beaten by their mothers and brothers and fathers and uncles .
i 've seen girls starving themselves to death in america in institutions to look like some idealized version of themselves .
i 've seen that we cut girls and we control them and we keep them illiterate , or we make them feel bad about being too smart .
we silence them . we make them feel guilty for being smart . we get them to behave , to tone it down , not to be too intense .
we sell them , we kill them as embryos ,
we enslave them , we rape them .
we are so accustomed to robbing girls of the subject of being the subjects of their lives that we have now actually objectified them and turned them into commodities .
the selling of girls is rampant across the planet .
and in many places they are worth less than goats and cows .
but i also want to talk about the fact that if one in eight people on the planet are girls between the ages of 10 to 24 , they are they key , really , in the developing world , as well as in the whole world , to the future of humanity .
and if girls are in trouble because they face systematic disadvantages that keep them where society wants them to be , including lack of access to healthcare , education , healthy foods , labor force participation .
the burden of all the household tasks usually falls on girls and younger siblings ,
which ensures that they will never overcome these barriers .
the state of girls , the condition of girls , will , in my belief -- and that 's the girl inside us and the girl in the world -- determine whether the species survives .
and what i want to suggest is that , having talked to girls , because i just finished a new book called " i am an emotional creature : the secret life of girls around the world , " i 've been talking to girls for five years , and one of the things that i 've seen is true everywhere is that the verb that 's been enforced on girl is the verb " to please . "
girls are trained to please .
i want to change the verb .
i want us all to change the verb .
i want the verb to be " educate , " or " activate , " or " engage , " or " confront , " or " defy , " or " create . "
if we teach girls to change the verb we will actually enforce the girl inside us and the girl inside them .
and i have to now share a few stories of girls i 've seen across the planet who have engaged their girl , who have taken on their girl in spite of all the circumstances around them .
i know a 14-year-old girl in the netherlands , for example , who is demanding that she take a boat and go around the entire world by herself .
there is a teenage girl who just recently went out and knew that she needed 56 stars tattooed on the right side of her face .
there is a girl , julia butterfly hill , who lived for a year in a tree because she wanted to protect the wild oaks .
there is a girl who i met 14 years ago in afghanistan who i have adopted as my daughter because her mother was killed . her mother was a revolutionary .
and this girl , when she was 17 years old , wore a burqa in afghanistan , and went into the stadiums and documented the atrocities that were going on towards women , underneath her burqa , with a video .
and that video became the video that went out all over the world after 9 / 11 to show what was going on in afghanistan .
i want to talk about rachel corrie who was in her teens when she stood in front of an israeli tank to say , " end the occupation . "
and she knew she risked death and she was literally gunned down and rolled over by that tank .
and i want to talk about a girl that i just met recently in bukavu , who was impregnated by her rapist .
and she was holding her baby .
and i asked her if she loved her baby .
and she looked into her baby 's eyes and she said , " of course i love my baby . how could i not love my baby ?
it 's my baby and it 's full of love . " the capacity for girls to overcome situations and to move on levels , to me , is mind-blowing .
there is a girl named dorcas , and i just met her in kenya .
dorcas is 15 years old , and she was trained in self-defense .
a few months ago she was picked up on the street by three older men .
they kidnapped her , they put her in a car .
and through her self-defense , she grabbed their adam 's apples , she punched them in the eyes and she got herself free and out of the car .
in kenya , in august , i went to visit one of the v-day safe houses for girls , a house we opened seven years ago with an amazing woman named agnes pareyio .
agnes was a woman who was cut when she was a little girl , she was female genitally mutilated .
and she made a decision as many women do across this planet , that what was done to her would not be enforced and done to other women and girls .
so , for years agnes walked through the rift valley .
she taught girls what a healthy vagina looked like , and what a mutilated vagina looked like .
and in that time she saved many girls . and when we met her we asked her what we could do for her , and she said , " well , if you got me a jeep i could get around a lot faster . " so , we got her a jeep . and then she saved 4,500 girls .
and then we asked her , " okay , what else do you need ? " and she said , " well , now , i need a house . " so , seven years ago agnes built the first v-day safe house in narok , kenya , in the masai land .
and it was a house where girls could run away , they could save their clitoris , they wouldn 't be cut , they could go to school .
and in the years that agnes has had the house , she has changed the situation there .
she has literally become deputy mayor .
she 's changed the rules .
the whole community has bought in to what she 's doing .
when we were there she was doing a ritual where she reconciles girls , who have run away , with their families .
and there was a young girl named jaclyn .
jaclyn was 14 years old and she was in her masai family and there 's a drought in kenya .
so cows are dying , and cows are the most valued possession .
and jaclyn overheard her father talking to an old man about how he was about to sell her for the cows .
and she knew that meant she would be cut .
she knew that meant she wouldn 't go to school .
she knew that meant she wouldn 't have a future .
she knew she would have to marry that old man , and she was 14 .
so , one afternoon , she 'd heard about the safe house , jaclyn left her father 's house and she walked for two days , two days through masai land .
she slept with the hyenas . she hid at night .
she imagined her father killing her on one hand , and mama agnes greeting her , with the hope that she would greet her when she got to the house .
and when she got to the house she was greeted .
agnes took her in , and agnes loved her ,
and agnes supported her for the year .
she went to school and she found her voice , and she found her identity , and she found her heart .
then , her time was ready when she had to go back to talk to her father about the reconciliation , after a year .
i had the privilege of being in the hut when she was reunited with her father and reconciled .
in that hut , we walked in , and her father and his four wives were sitting there , and her sisters who had just returned because they had all fled when she had fled , and her primary mother , who had been beaten in standing up for her with the elders .
when her father saw her and saw who she had become , in her full girl self , he threw his arms around her and broke down crying .
he said , " you are beautiful . you have grown into a gorgeous woman .
we will not cut you .
and i give you my word , here and now , that we will not cut your sisters either . "
and what she said to him was , " you were willing to sell me for four cows , and a calf and some blankets .
but i promise you , now that i will be educated i will always take care of you , and i will come back and i will build you a house .
and i will be in your corner for the rest of your life . " for me , that is the power of girls .
and that is the power of transformation .
i want to close today with a new piece from my book .
and i want to do it tonight for the girl in everybody here .
and i want to do it for sunitha .
and i want to do it for the girls that sunitha talked about yesterday , the girls who survive , the girls who can become somebody else .
but i really want to do it for each and every person here , to value the girl in us , to value the part that cries , to value the part that 's emotional , to value the part that 's vulnerable , to understand that 's where the future lies . this is called " i 'm an emotional creature . " and it happened because i met a girl in watts , l.a .
i was asking girls if they like being a girl , and all the girls were like , " no , i hate it . i can 't stand it .
it 's all bad . my brothers get everything . " and this girl just sat up and went , " i love being a girl .
i 'm an emotional creature ! " this is for her : i love being a girl .
i can feel what you 're feeling as you 're feeling inside the feeling before .
i am an emotional creature .
things do not come to me as intellectual theories or hard-pressed ideas .
they pulse through my organs and legs and burn up my ears .
oh , i know when your girlfriend 's really pissed off , even though she appears to give you what you want .
i know when a storm is coming .
i can feel the invisible stirrings in the air .
i can tell you he won 't call back . it 's a vibe i share .
i am an emotional creature .
i love that i do not take things lightly .
everything is intense to me , the way i walk in the street , the way my momma wakes me up , the way it 's unbearable when i lose , the way i hear bad news .
i am an emotional creature .
i am connected to everything and everyone . i was born like that .
don 't you say all negative that it 's only only a teenage thing , or it 's only because i 'm a girl .
these feelings make me better .
they make me present . they make me ready . they make me strong .
i am an emotional creature .
there is a particular way of knowing . it 's like the older women somehow forgot .
i rejoice that it 's still in my body .
oh , i know when the coconut 's about to fall .
i know we have pushed the earth too far .
i know my father isn 't coming back , and that no one 's prepared for the fire .
i know that lipstick means more than show , and boys are super insecure , and so-called terrorists are made , not born .
i know that one kiss could take away all my decision-making ability .
and you know what ? sometimes it should .
this is not extreme . it 's a girl thing , what we would all be if the big door inside us flew open .
don 't tell me not to cry , to calm it down , not to be so extreme , to be reasonable .
i am an emotional creature .
it 's how the earth got made , how the wind continues to pollinate .
you don 't tell the atlantic ocean to behave .
i am an emotional creature .
why would you want to shut me down or turn me off ?
i am your remaining memory .
i can take you back .
nothing 's been diluted .
nothing 's leaked out .
i love , hear me , i love that i can feel the feelings inside you , even if they stop my life , even if they break my heart , even if they take me off track , they make me responsible .
i am an emotional , i am an emotional , incondotional , devotional creature .
and i love , hear me , i love , love , love being a girl .
can you say it with me ?
i love , i love , love , love being a girl !
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / ron _ eglash _ on _ african _ fractals.html
'i am a mathematician , and i would like to stand on your roof . ' that is how ron eglash greeted many african families he met while researching the fractal patterns he 'd noticed in villages across the continent .
africa , architecture , culture , design , education , math , technology
198
ron eglash on african fractals
i want to start my story in germany , in 1877 , with a mathematician named georg cantor .
and cantor decided he was going to take a line and erase the middle third of the line , and then take those two resulting lines and bring them back into the same process , a recursive process .
so he starts out with one line , and then two , and then four , and then 16 , and so on .
and if he does this an infinite number of times , which you can do in mathematics , he ends up with an infinite number of lines , each of which has an infinite number of points in it .
so he realized he had a set whose number of elements was larger than infinity .
and this blew his mind . literally . he checked into a sanitarium .
and when he came out of the sanitarium , he was convinced that he had been put on earth to found transfinite set theory because the largest set of infinity would be god himself .
he was a very religious man .
he was a mathematician on a mission .
and other mathematicians did the same sort of thing .
a swedish mathematician , von koch , decided that instead of subtracting lines , he would add them .
and so he came up with this beautiful curve .
and there 's no particular reason why we have to start with this seed shape ; we can use any seed shape we like .
and i 'll rearrange this and i 'll stick this somewhere -- down there , ok -- and now upon iteration , that seed shape sort of unfolds into a very different looking structure .
so these all have the property of self-similarity : the part looks like the whole .
it 's the same pattern at many different scales .
now , mathematicians thought this was very strange because as you shrink a ruler down , you measure a longer and longer length .
and since they went through the iterations an infinite number of times , as the ruler shrinks down to infinity , the length goes to infinity .
this made no sense at all ,
so they consigned these curves to the back of the math books .
they said these are pathological curves , and we don 't have to discuss them . and that worked for a hundred years .
and then in 1977 , benoit mandelbrot , a french mathematician , realized that if you do computer graphics and used these shapes he called fractals , you get the shapes of nature .
you get the human lungs , you get acacia trees , you get ferns , you get these beautiful natural forms .
if you take your thumb and your index finger and look right where they meet -- go ahead and do that now -- -- and relax your hand , you 'll see a crinkle , and then a wrinkle within the crinkle , and a crinkle within the wrinkle . right ?
your body is covered with fractals .
the mathematicians who were saying these were pathologically useless shapes ?
they were breathing those words with fractal lungs .
it 's very ironic . and i 'll show you a little natural recursion here .
again , we just take these lines and recursively replace them with the whole shape .
so here 's the second iteration , and the third , fourth and so on .
so nature has this self-similar structure .
nature uses self-organizing systems .
now in the 1980s , i happened to notice that if you look at an aerial photograph of an african village , you see fractals .
and i thought , " this is fabulous ! i wonder why ? " and of course i had to go to africa and ask folks why .
so i got a fulbright scholarship to just travel around africa for a year asking people why they were building fractals , which is a great job if you can get it .
and so i finally got to this city , and i 'd done a little fractal model for the city just to see how it would sort of unfold -- but when i got there , i got to the palace of the chief , and my french is not very good ; i said something like , " i am a mathematician and i would like to stand on your roof . " but he was really cool about it , and he took me up there , and we talked about fractals .
and he said , " oh yeah , yeah ! we knew about a rectangle within a rectangle , we know all about that . " and it turns out the royal insignia has a rectangle within a rectangle within a rectangle , and the path through that palace is actually this spiral here .
and as you go through the path , you have to get more and more polite .
so they 're mapping the social scaling onto the geometric scaling ; it 's a conscious pattern . it is not unconscious like a termite mound fractal .
this is a village in southern zambia .
the ba-ila built this village about 400 meters in diameter .
you have a huge ring .
the rings that represent the family enclosures get larger and larger as you go towards the back , and then you have the chief 's ring here towards the back and then the chief 's immediate family in that ring .
so here 's a little fractal model for it .
here 's one house with the sacred altar , here 's the house of houses , the family enclosure , with the humans here where the sacred altar would be , and then here 's the village as a whole -- a ring of ring of rings with the chief 's extended family here , the chief 's immediate family here , and here there 's a tiny village only this big .
now you might wonder , how can people fit in a tiny village only this big ? that 's because they 're spirit people . it 's the ancestors .
and of course the spirit people have a little miniature village in their village , right ?
so it 's just like georg cantor said , the recursion continues forever .
this is in the mandara mountains , near the nigerian border in cameroon , mokoulek .
i saw this diagram drawn by a french architect , and i thought , " wow ! what a beautiful fractal ! " so i tried to come up with a seed shape , which , upon iteration , would unfold into this thing .
i came up with this structure here .
let 's see , first iteration , second , third , fourth .
now , after i did the simulation , i realized the whole village kind of spirals around , just like this , and here 's that replicating line -- a self-replicating line that unfolds into the fractal .
well , i noticed that line is about where the only square building in the village is at .
so , when i got to the village , i said , " can you take me to the square building ?
i think something 's going on there . " and they said , " well , we can take you there , but you can 't go inside because that 's the sacred altar , where we do sacrifices every year to keep up those annual cycles of fertility for the fields . " and i started to realize that the cycles of fertility were just like the recursive cycles in the geometric algorithm that builds this .
and the recursion in some of these villages continues down into very tiny scales .
so here 's a nankani village in mali .
and you can see , you go inside the family enclosure -- you go inside and here 's pots in the fireplace , stacked recursively .
here 's calabashes that issa was just showing us , and they 're stacked recursively .
now , the tiniest calabash in here keeps the woman 's soul .
and when she dies , they have a ceremony where they break this stack called the zalanga and her soul goes off to eternity .
once again , infinity is important .
now , you might ask yourself three questions at this point .
aren 't these scaling patterns just universal to all indigenous architecture ?
and that was actually my original hypothesis .
when i first saw those african fractals , i thought , " wow , so any indigenous group that doesn 't have a state society , that sort of hierarchy , must have a kind of bottom-up architecture . " but that turns out not to be true .
i started collecting aerial photographs of native american and south pacific architecture ; only the african ones were fractal .
and if you think about it , all these different societies have different geometric design themes that they use .
so native americans use a combination of circular symmetry and fourfold symmetry .
you can see on the pottery and the baskets .
here 's an aerial photograph of one of the anasazi ruins ; you can see it 's circular at the largest scale , but it 's rectangular at the smaller scale , right ?
it is not the same pattern at two different scales .
second , you might ask , " well , dr. eglash , aren 't you ignoring the diversity of african cultures ? " and three times , the answer is no .
first of all , i agree with mudimbe 's wonderful book , " the invention of africa , " that africa is an artificial invention of first colonialism , and then oppositional movements .
no , because a widely shared design practice doesn 't necessarily give you a unity of culture -- and it definitely is not " in the dna . "
and finally , the fractals have self-similarity -- so they 're similar to themselves , but they 're not necessarily similar to each other -- you see very different uses for fractals .
it 's a shared technology in africa .
and finally , well , isn 't this just intuition ?
it 's not really mathematical knowledge .
africans can 't possibly really be using fractal geometry , right ?
it wasn 't invented until the 1970s .
well , it 's true that some african fractals are , as far as i 'm concerned , just pure intuition .
so some of these things , i 'd wander around the streets of dakar asking people , " what 's the algorithm ? what 's the rule for making this ? " and they 'd say , " well , we just make it that way because it looks pretty , stupid . " but sometimes , that 's not the case .
in some cases , there would actually be algorithms , and very sophisticated algorithms .
so in manghetu sculpture , you 'd see this recursive geometry .
in ethiopian crosses , you see this wonderful unfolding of the shape .
in angola , the chokwe people draw lines in the sand , and it 's what the german mathematician euler called a graph ; we now call it an eulerian path -- you can never lift your stylus from the surface and you can never go over the same line twice .
but they do it recursively , and they do it with an age-grade system , so the little kids learn this one , and then the older kids learn this one , then the next age-grade initiation , you learn this one .
and with each iteration of that algorithm , you learn the iterations of the myth .
you learn the next level of knowledge .
and finally , all over africa , you see this board game .
it 's called owari in ghana , where i studied it ; it 's called mancala here on the east coast , bao in kenya , sogo elsewhere .
well , you see self-organizing patterns that spontaneously occur in this board game .
and the folks in ghana knew about these self-organizing patterns and would use them strategically .
so this is very conscious knowledge .
here 's a wonderful fractal .
anywhere you go in the sahel , you 'll see this windscreen .
and of course fences around the world are all cartesian , all strictly linear .
but here in africa , you 've got these nonlinear scaling fences .
so i tracked down one of the folks who makes these things , this guy in mali just outside of bamako , and i asked him , " how come you 're making fractal fences ? because nobody else is . " and his answer was very interesting .
he said , " well , if i lived in the jungle , i would only use the long rows of straw because they 're very quick and they 're very cheap .
it doesn 't take much time , doesn 't take much straw . " he said , " but wind and dust goes through pretty easily .
now , the tight rows up at the very top , they really hold out the wind and dust .
but it takes a lot of time , and it takes a lot of straw because they 're really tight . " " now , " he said , " we know from experience that the farther up from the ground you go , the stronger the wind blows . " right ? it 's just like a cost-benefit analysis .
and i measured out the lengths of straw , put it on a log-log plot , got the scaling exponent , and it almost exactly matches the scaling exponent for the relationship between wind speed and height in the wind engineering handbook .
so these guys are right on target for a practical use of scaling technology .
the most complex example of an algorithmic approach to fractals that i found was actually not in geometry , it was in a symbolic code , and this was bamana sand divination .
and the same divination system is found all over africa .
you can find it on the east coast as well as the west coast , and often the symbols are very well preserved , so each of these symbols has four bits -- it 's a four-bit binary word -- you draw these lines in the sand randomly , and then you count off , and if it 's an odd number , you put down one stroke , and if it 's an even number , you put down two strokes . and they did this very rapidly , and i couldn 't understand where they were getting -- they only did the randomness four times -- i couldn 't understand where they were getting the other 12 symbols .
and they wouldn 't tell me .
they said , " no , no , i can 't tell you about this . "
and i said , " well look , i 'll pay you , you can be my teacher , and i 'll come each day and pay you . " they said , " it 's not a matter of money . this is a religious matter . "
and finally , out of desperation , i said , " well , let me explain georg cantor in 1877 . " and i started explaining why i was there in africa , and they got very excited when they saw the cantor set .
and one of them said , " come here . i think i can help you out here . " and so he took me through the initiation ritual for a bamana priest .
and of course , i was only interested in the math , so the whole time , he kept shaking his head going , " you know , i didn 't learn it this way . " but i had to sleep with a kola nut next to my bed , buried in sand , and give seven coins to seven lepers and so on .
and finally , he revealed the truth of the matter .
and it turns out it 's a pseudo-random number generator using deterministic chaos .
when you have a four-bit symbol , you then put it together with another one sideways .
so even plus odd gives you odd .
odd plus even gives you odd .
even plus even gives you even . odd plus odd gives you even .
it 's addition modulo 2 , just like in the parity bit check on your computer .
and then you take this symbol , and you put it back in so it 's a self-generating diversity of symbols .
they 're truly using a kind of deterministic chaos in doing this .
now , because it 's a binary code , you can actually implement this in hardware -- what a fantastic teaching tool that should be in african engineering schools .
and the most interesting thing i found out about it was historical .
in the 12th century , hugo of santalla brought it from islamic mystics into spain .
and there it entered into the alchemy community as geomancy : divination through the earth .
this is a geomantic chart drawn for king richard ii in 1390 .
leibniz , the german mathematician , talked about geomancy in his dissertation called " de combinatoria . " and he said , " well , instead of using one stroke and two strokes , let 's use a one and a zero , and we can count by powers of two . " right ? ones and zeros , the binary code .
george boole took leibniz 's binary code and created boolean algebra , and john von neumann took boolean algebra and created the digital computer .
so all these little pdas and laptops -- every digital circuit in the world -- started in africa .
and i know brian eno says there 's not enough africa in computers , but you know , i don 't think there 's enough african history in brian eno .
so let me end with just a few words about applications that we 've found for this .
and you can go to our website , the applets are all free ; they just run in the browser .
anybody in the world can use them .
the national science foundation 's broadening participation in computing program recently awarded us a grant to make a programmable version of these design tools , so hopefully in three years , anybody 'll be able to go on the web and create their own simulations and their own artifacts .
we 've focused in the u.s. on african-american students as well as native american and latino .
we 've found statistically significant improvement with children using this software in a mathematics class in comparison with a control group that did not have the software .
so it 's really very successful teaching children that they have a heritage that 's about mathematics , that it 's not just about singing and dancing .
we 've started a pilot program in ghana . we got a small seed grant , just to see if folks would be willing to work with us on this ; we 're very excited about the future possibilities for that .
we 've also been working in design .
i didn 't put his name up here -- my colleague , kerry , in kenya , has come up with this great idea for using fractal structure for postal address in villages that have fractal structure , because if you try to impose a grid structure postal system on a fractal village , it doesn 't quite fit .
bernard tschumi at columbia university has finished using this in a design for a museum of african art .
david hughes at ohio state university has written a primer on afrocentric architecture in which he 's used some of these fractal structures .
and finally , i just wanted to point out that this idea of self-organization , as we heard earlier , it 's in the brain .
it 's in the -- it 's in google 's search engine .
actually , the reason that google was such a success is because they were the first ones to take advantage of the self-organizing properties of the web .
it 's in ecological sustainability .
it 's in the developmental power of entrepreneurship , the ethical power of democracy .
it 's also in some bad things .
self-organization is why the aids virus is spreading so fast .
and if you don 't think that capitalism , which is self-organizing , can have destructive effects , you haven 't opened your eyes enough .
so we need to think about , as was spoken earlier , the traditional african methods for doing self-organization .
these are robust algorithms .
these are ways of doing self-organization -- of doing entrepreneurship -- that are gentle , that are egalitarian .
so if we want to find a better way of doing that kind of work , we need look only no farther than africa to find these robust self-organizing algorithms .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / mark _ shaw _ one _ very _ dry _ demo.html
mark shaw demos ultra-ever dry , a liquid-repellent coating that acts as an astonishingly powerful shield against water and water-based materials . at the nano level , the spray covers a surface with an umbrella of air so that water bounces right off . watch for an exciting two-minute kicker .
demo , invention , nanoscale , technology , water
1700
mark shaw : one very dry demo
i 'm here to show you how something you can 't see can be so much fun to look at .
you 're about to experience a new , available and exciting technology that 's going to make us rethink how we waterproof our lives .
what i have here is a cinder block that we 've coated half with a nanotechnology spray that can be applied to almost any material .
it 's called ultra-ever dry , and when you apply it to any material , it turns into a superhydrophobic shield .
so this is a cinder block , uncoated , and you can see that it 's porous , it absorbs water .
not anymore .
porous , nonporous .
so what 's superhydrophobic ?
superhydrophobic is how we measure a drop of water on a surface .
the rounder it is , the more hydrophobic it is , and if it 's really round , it 's superhydrophobic .
a freshly waxed car , the water molecules slump to about 90 degrees .
a windshield coating is going to give you about 110 degrees .
but what you 're seeing here is 160 to 175 degrees , and anything over 150 is superhydrophobic .
so as part of the demonstration , what i have is a pair of gloves , and we 've coated one of the gloves with the nanotechnology coating , and let 's see if you can tell which one , and i 'll give you a hint .
did you guess the one that was dry ?
when you have nanotechnology and nanoscience , what 's occurred is that we 're able to now look at atoms and molecules and actually control them for great benefits .
and we 're talking really small here .
the way you measure nanotechnology is in nanometers , and one nanometer is a billionth of a meter ,
and to put some scale to that , if you had a nanoparticle that was one nanometer thick , and you put it side by side , and you had 50,000 of them , you 'd be the width of a human hair .
so very small , but very useful .
and it 's not just water that this works with . it 's a lot of water-based materials like concrete , water-based paint , mud , and also some refined oils as well .
you can see the difference .
moving onto the next demonstration , we 've taken a pane of glass and we 've coated the outside of it , we 've framed it with the nanotechnology coating , and we 're going to pour this green-tinted water inside the middle , and you 're going to see , it 's going to spread out on glass like you 'd normally think it would , except when it hits the coating , it stops , and i can 't even coax it to leave .
it 's that afraid of the water .
so what 's going on here ? what 's happening ?
well , the surface of the spray coating is actually filled with nanoparticles that form a very rough and craggly surface .
you 'd think it 'd be smooth , but it 's actually not .
and it has billions of interstitial spaces , and those spaces , along with the nanoparticles , reach up and grab the air molecules , and cover the surface with air .
it 's an umbrella of air all across it ,
and that layer of air is what the water hits , the mud hits , the concrete hits , and it glides right off .
so if i put this inside this water here , you can see a silver reflective coating around it , and that silver reflective coating is the layer of air that 's protecting the water from touching the paddle , and it 's dry .
so what are the applications ?
i mean , many of you right now are probably going through your head .
everyone that sees this gets excited , and says , " oh , i could use it for this and this and this . " the applications in a general sense could be anything that 's anti-wetting . we 've certainly seen that today .
it could be anything that 's anti-icing , because if you don 't have water , you don 't have ice .
it could be anti-corrosion .
no water , no corrosion .
it could be anti-bacterial .
without water , the bacteria won 't survive .
and it could be things that need to be self-cleaning as well .
so imagine how something like this could help revolutionize your field of work .
and i 'm going to leave you with one last demonstration , but before i do that , i would like to say thank you , and think small .
it 's going to happen . wait for it . wait for it .
chris anderson : you guys didn 't hear about us cutting out the design from ted ?
[ two minutes later ... ] he ran into all sorts of problems in terms of managing the medical research part .
it 's happening !
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / morley _ sings _ women _ of _ hope.html
inspired by aung san suu kyi 's call to action , " if you 're feeling helpless , help someone , " morley composed this song . she sings it at tedxwomen in her gorgeous , warm voice .
activism , arts , music , poetry , women
1323
morley sings " women of hope "
 they stood together   under a tree in tall grass   on tv   telling the world   their story   we will be left to wander   and fade away   soldiers came and took our husbands   at the break of day   we will live on   then fade away   soldiers came and killed our children   at the break of day   women of hope   women of change   women of war and pain   i believe   i believe the almighty knows each and every one of you   by your name   women of hope   women of change   women of love , joy , no shame   you 've got something this little life   can never take away   running through the darkness of night   with a child by her side   oh lord , won 't you give them   a shining armor of light   oh lord , won 't you give them   a shining armor of light   daybreak brings a sign of new life   with the power to stand   crossing the border   she said , " you will grow free on this land "   women of hope   women of change   women of war and pain   i can feel your power   in these words she said   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   nobody really knows   how far they will go   to keep on living   nobody really knows   how far they will go   to keep on giving   and forgiving   aung san suu kyi   living under house arrest   for her peaceful protest   under house arrest   for her peaceful protest   when her people asked her for a message   she said   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone  now we know the words , let 's sing .
 if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   people of hope   people of change   people of love , joy , no shame   i believe the almighty   knows each and every one of you   by your name  thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / the _ jill _ and _ julia _ show.html
two ted favorites , jill sobule and julia sweeney , team up for a delightful set that mixes witty songwriting with a little bit of social commentary .
collaboration , entertainment , guitar , humor , short talk , singer , storytelling
222
the jill and julia show
 jill sobule : at a conference in monterey by the big , big jellyfish tank ,   i first saw you and i got so shy .   you see , i was a little paranoid ' cause i might have been high .   and i hadn 't done that in ages and i won 't do that again .   but that 's another story .   loved you forever and i 've been a big fan ,   the one-woman shows , i even rented " pat . "   i got enough nerve to come up to you ,   but little did i know one year later we 'd be doing this show .   i sing . julia sweeney : i tell stories . together : the jill and julia show .   sobule : sometimes it works . sweeney : sometimes it doesn 't .   together : the jill and julia show .   sweeney : at a conference in monterey next to the big , big jellyfish tank ,   i first saw you and i wasn 't so shy .  i made a beeline for you and told you what a huge fan i was
ever since i was writing that pilot for fox , and wendy and i wanted you to do the theme song .
and then the pilot didn 't go and i was so sad , but i kept remaining a fan of yours .
and then when i went through that big , horrible breakup with carl and i couldn 't get off the couch , i listened to your song ,  " now that i don 't have you , "  over and over and over and over again .
and i can 't believe you 're here and that i 'm meeting you here at ted .
and also , i can 't believe that we 're eating sushi in front of the fish tank , which , personally , i think is really inappropriate .
and little did i know that one year later ...  we 'd be doing this show .   sobule : i sing . sweeney : i tell stories . together : the jill and julia show .  sobule : hey , they asked us back ! sweeney : can you stand it ? !
 together : the jill and julia , the jill and julia , the jill and julia show .   sobule : why are all our heroes so imperfect ?   why do they always bring me down ?   why are all our heroes so imperfect ?   statue in the park has lost his crown .   william faulkner , drunk and depressed .  sweeney : mmm .  dorothy parker , mean , drunk and depressed .  sweeney : i know .  and that guy , " seven years in tibet , " turned out to be a nazi .  sweeney : yeah .  founding fathers all had slaves .  sweeney : i know .  the explorers slaughtered the braves .  sweeney : horribly .
 sobule : the old testament god can be so petty .  sweeney : don 't get me started on that .
 sobule : paul mccartney , jealous of john , even more so now that he 's gone .   dylan was so mean to donovan in that movie .   pablo picasso , cruel to his wives .  sweeney : horrible .
 sobule : my favorite poets took their own lives .   orson welles peaked at twenty-five , below before our eyes .   and he sold bad wine .   together : why are all our heroes so imperfect ? yeah   why do they always bring me down ?   sobule : heard babe ruth was full of malice .  sweeney : oh .  lewis carroll i 'm sure did alice .  sweeney : what ? !  plato in the cave with those very young boys .  sweeney : ooh ...
 sobule : hillary supported the war .   sweeney : even thomas friedman supported the war .   sobule : colin powell turned out to be ... together : ... such a pussy .   sobule : william faulkner , drunk and depressed ,   tennessee williams , drunk and depressed .  sweeney : yeah .  sobule : take it , julia . 
sweeney : okay . oprah was never necessarily a big hero of mine .
i mean , i watch oprah mostly when i 'm home in spokane visiting my mother . and to my mother , oprah is a greater moral authority than the pope , which is actually saying something because she 's a devout catholic .
anyway , i like oprah -- i like her girlfriendy-ness ,
i like her weight issues ,
i like how she 's transformed talk television ,
i like how she 's brought reading back to america --
but there was something that happened the last two weeks that was ... i call it the soon-yi moment :
it is the moment when i cannot continue supporting someone .
and that was that she did two entire shows promoting that movie " the secret . "
do you guys know about that movie " the secret " ?
it makes " what the bleep do we know " seem like a doctoral dissertation from harvard on quantum mechanics -- that 's how bad it is .
it makes " the davinci code " seem like " war and peace . "
that movie is so horrible . it promotes such awful pseudoscience .
and the basic idea is that there 's this law of attraction , and your thoughts have this vibrating energy that goes out into the universe and then you attract good things to happen to you .
on a scientific basis , it 's more than just " power of positive thinking " -- it has a horrible , horrible dark side . like if you get ill , it 's because you 've just been thinking negative thoughts .
yeah , stuff like that was in the movie and she 's promoting it .
and all i 'm saying is that i really wish that murray gell-mann would go on oprah and just explain to her that the law of attraction is , in fact , not a law .
so that 's what i have to say .
 sobule : i sing . sweeney : i tell stories . together : the jill and julia show .   sobule : sometimes it works . sweeney : sometimes it doesn 't .   together : the jill and julia , the jill and julia , the jill and julia show . 
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / robert _ full _ on _ engineering _ and _ evolution.html
insects and animals have evolved some amazing skills -- but , as robert full notes , many animals are actually over-engineered . the trick is to copy only what 's necessary . he shows how human engineers can learn from animals ' tricks .
animals , design , evolution , robots , science , technology , transportation
280
robert full on engineering and evolution
welcome . if i could have the first slide , please ?
contrary to calculations made by some engineers , bees can fly , dolphins can swim , and geckos can even climb up the smoothest surfaces . now , what i want to do , in the short time i have , is to try to allow each of you to experience the thrill of revealing nature 's design .
i get to do this all the time , and it 's just incredible .
i want to try to share just a little bit of that with you in this presentation .
the challenge of looking at nature 's designs -- and i 'll tell you the way that we perceive it , and the way we 've used it .
the challenge , of course , is to answer this question : what permits this extraordinary performance of animals that allows them basically to go anywhere ?
and if we could figure that out , how can we implement those designs ?
well , many biologists will tell engineers , and others , organisms have millions of years to get it right ; they 're spectacular ; they can do everything wonderfully well .
so , the answer is bio-mimicry : just copy nature directly .
we know from working on animals that the truth is that 's exactly what you don 't want to do -- because evolution works on the just-good-enough principle , not on a perfecting principle .
and the constraints in building any organism , when you look at it , are really severe . natural technologies have incredible constraints .
think about it . if you were an engineer and i told you that you had to build an automobile , but it had to start off to be this big , then it had to grow to be full size and had to work every step along the way .
or think about the fact that if you build an automobile , i 'll tell you that you also -- inside it -- have to put a factory that allows you to make another automobile .
and you can absolutely never , absolutely never , because of history and the inherited plan , start with a clean slate .
so , organisms have this important history .
really evolution works more like a tinkerer than an engineer .
and this is really important when you begin to look at animals .
instead , we believe you need to be inspired by biology . you need to discover the general principles of nature , and then use these analogies when they 're advantageous .
this is a real challenge to do this , because animals , when you start to really look inside them -- how they work -- appear hopelessly complex . there 's no detailed history of the design plans , you can 't go look it up anywhere .
they have way too many motions for their joints , too many muscles . even the simplest animal we think of , something like an insect , and they have more neurons and connections than you can imagine .
how can you make sense of this ? well , we believed --
and we hypothesized -- that one way animals could work simply , is if the control of their movements tended to be built into their bodies themselves .
what we discovered was that two- , four- , six- and eight-legged animals all produce the same forces on the ground when they move .
they all work like this kangaroo , they bounce .
and they can be modeled by a spring-mass system that we call the spring mass system because we 're biomechanists . it 's actually a pogo stick .
they all produce the pattern of a pogo stick . how is that true ?
well , a human , one of your legs works like two legs of a trotting dog , or works like three legs , together as one , of a trotting insect , or four legs as one of a trotting crab .
and then they alternate in their propulsion , but the patterns are all the same . almost every organism we 've looked at this way -- you 'll see next week , i 'll give you a hint , there 'll be an article coming out that says that really big things like t. rex probably couldn 't do this , but you 'll see that next week .
now , what 's interesting is the animals , then -- we said -- bounce along the vertical plane this way , and in our collaborations with pixar , in " a bug 's life , " we discussed the bipedal nature of the characters of the ants .
and we told them , of course , they move in another plane as well . and they asked us this question . they say , " why model just in the sagittal plane or the vertical plane , when you 're telling us these animals are moving in the horizontal plane ? " this is a good question .
nobody in biology ever modeled it this way .
we took their advice and we modeled the animals moving in the horizontal plane as well . we took their three legs , we collapsed them down as one . we got some of the best mathematicians in the world from princeton to work on this problem .
and we were able to create a model where animals are not only bouncing up and down , but they 're also bouncing side to side at the same time .
and many organisms fit this kind of pattern .
now , why is this important to have this model ?
because it 's very interesting . when you take this model and you perturb it , you give it a push , as it bumps into something , it self-stabilizes , with no brain or no reflexes , just by the structure alone .
it 's a beautiful model . let 's look at the mathematics . that 's enough !
the animals , when you look at them running , appear to be self-stabilizing like this , using basically springy legs . that is , the legs can do computations on their own ; the control algorithms , in a sense , are embedded in the form of the animal itself .
why haven 't we been more inspired by nature and these kinds of discoveries ?
well , i would argue that human technologies are really different from natural technologies , at least they have been so far .
think about the typical kind of robot that you see .
human technologies have tended to be large , flat , with right angles , stiff , made of metal . they have rolling devices and axles . there are very few motors , very few sensors .
whereas nature tends to be small , and curved , and it bends and twists , and has legs instead , and appendages , and has many muscles and many , many sensors .
so it 's a very different design . however , what 's changing , what 's really exciting -- and i 'll show you some of that next -- is that as human technology takes on more of the characteristics of nature , then nature really can become a much more useful teacher .
and here 's one example that 's really exciting .
this is a collaboration we have with stanford .
and they developed this new technique , called shape deposition manufacturing . it 's a technique where they can mix materials together and mold any shape that they like , and put in the material properties .
they can embed sensors and actuators right in the form itself .
for example , here 's a leg : the clear part is stiff , the white part is compliant , and you don 't need any axles there or anything .
it just bends by itself beautifully .
so , you can put those properties in . it inspired them to show off this design by producing a little robot they named sprawl .
our work has also inspired another robot , a biologically inspired bouncing robot , from the university of michigan and mcgill named rhex , for robot hexapod , and this one 's autonomous .
let 's go to the video , and let me show you some of these animals moving
and then some of the simple robots that have been inspired by our discoveries .
here 's what some of you did this morning , although you did it outside , not on a treadmill .
here 's what we do . this is a death 's head cockroach . this is an american cockroach you think you don 't have in your kitchen .
this is an eight-legged scorpion , six-legged ant , forty-four-legged centipede .
now , i said all these animals are sort of working like pogo sticks -- they 're bouncing along as they move . and you can see that in this ghost crab , from the beaches of panama and north carolina .
it goes up to four meters per second when it runs .
it actually leaps into the air , and has aerial phases when it does it , like a horse , and you 'll see it 's bouncing here .
what we discovered is whether you look at the leg of a human like richard , or a cockroach , or a crab , or a kangaroo , the relative leg stiffness of that spring is the same for everything we 've seen so far .
now , what good are springy legs then ? what can they do ?
well , we wanted to see if they allowed the animals to have greater stability and maneuverability .
so , we built a terrain that had obstacles three times the hip height of the animals that we 're looking at . and we were certain they couldn 't do this . and here 's what they did .
the animal ran over it and it didn 't even slow down !
it didn 't decrease its preferred speed at all .
we couldn 't believe that it could do this . it said to us that if you could build a robot with very simple , springy legs , you could make it as maneuverable as any that 's ever been built .
here 's the first example of that . this is the stanford shape deposition manufactured robot , named sprawl .
it has six legs -- there are the tuned , springy legs .
it moves in a gait that an insect uses , and here it is going on the treadmill . now , what 's important about this robot , compared to other robots , is that it can 't see anything , it can 't feel anything , it doesn 't have a brain , yet it can maneuver over these obstacles without any difficulty whatsoever .
it 's this technique of building the properties into the form .
this is a graduate student . this is what he 's doing to his thesis project -- very robust , if a graduate student does that to his thesis project .
this is from mcgill and university of michigan . this is the rhex , making its first outing in a demo .
same principle : it only has six moving parts ,
six motors , but it has springy , tuned legs . it moves in the gait of the insect . it has the middle leg moving in synchrony with the front , and the hind leg on the other side . sort of an alternating tripod , and they can negotiate obstacles just like the animal .
robert full : it 'll go on different surfaces -- here 's sand -- although we haven 't perfected the feet yet , but i 'll talk about that later .
here 's rhex entering the woods .
again , this robot can 't see anything , it can 't feel anything , it has no brain . it 's just working with a tuned mechanical system , with very simple parts , but inspired from the fundamental dynamics of the animal .
rf : here 's it going down a pathway .
i presented this to the jet propulsion lab at nasa , and they said that they had no ability to go down craters to look for ice , and life , ultimately , on mars . and he said -- especially with legged-robots , because they 're way too complicated .
nothing can do that . and i talk next . i showed them this video with the simple design of rhex here . and just to convince them we should go to mars in 2011 , i tinted the video orange just to give them the sense of being on mars .
another reason why animals have extraordinary performance , and can go anywhere , is because they have an effective interaction with the environment . the animal i 'm going to show you , that we studied to look at this , is the gecko .
we have one here and notice its position . it 's holding on .
now i 'm going to challenge you . i 'm going show you a video .
one of the animals is going to be running on the level , and the other one 's going to be running up a wall . which one 's which ?
they 're going at a meter a second . how many think the one on the left is running up the wall ?
okay . the point is it 's really hard to tell , isn 't it ? it 's incredible , we looked at students do this and they couldn 't tell .
they can run up a wall at a meter a second , 15 steps per second , and they look like they 're running on the level . how do they do this ?
it 's just phenomenal . the one on the right was going up the hill .
how do they do this ? they have bizarre toes . they have toes that uncurl like party favors when you blow them out , and then peel off the surface , like tape .
like if we had a piece of tape now , we 'd peel it this way .
they do this with their toes . it 's bizarre ! this peeling inspired irobot -- that we work with -- to build mecho-geckos .
here 's a legged version and a tractor version , or a bulldozer version .
let 's see some of the geckos move with some video , and then i 'll show you a little bit of a clip of the robots .
here 's the gecko running up a vertical surface . there it goes , in real time . there it goes again . obviously , we have to slow this down a little bit .
you can 't use regular cameras .
you have to take 1,000 pictures per second to see this .
and here 's some video at 1,000 frames per second .
now , i want you to look at the animal 's back .
do you see how much it 's bending like that ? we can 't figure that out -- that 's an unsolved mystery . we don 't know how it works .
if you have a son or a daughter that wants to come to berkeley , come to my lab and we 'll figure this out . okay , send them to berkeley because that 's the next thing i want to do . here 's the gecko mill .
it 's a see-through treadmill with a see-through treadmill belt , so we can watch the animal 's feet , and videotape them through the treadmill belt , to see how they move .
here 's the animal that we have here , running on a vertical surface . pick a foot and try to watch a toe , and see if you can see what the animal 's doing .
see it uncurl and then peel these toes .
it can do this in 14 milliseconds . it 's unbelievable .
here are the robots that they inspire , the mecho-geckos from irobot .
first we 'll see the animals toes peeling -- look at that .
and here 's the peeling action of the mecho-gecko . it uses a pressure-sensitive adhesive to do it .
peeling in the animal . peeling in the mecho-gecko -- that allows them climb autonomously . can go on the flat surface , transition to a wall , and then go onto a ceiling .
there 's the bulldozer version . now , it doesn 't use pressure-sensitive glue .
the animal does not use that .
but that 's what we 're limited to , at the moment .
what does the animal do ? the animal has weird toes . and if you look at the toes , they have these little leaves there , and if you blow them up and zoom in , you 'll see that 's there 's little striations in these leaves .
and if you zoom in 270 times , you 'll see it looks like a rug .
and if you blow that up , and zoom in 900 times , you see there are hairs there , tiny hairs . and if you look carefully , those tiny hairs have striations . and if you zoom in on those 30,000 times , you 'll see each hair has split ends .
and if you blow those up , they have these little structures on the end .
the smallest branch of the hairs looks like spatulae , and an animal like that has one billion of these nano-size split ends ,
to get very close to the surface . in fact , there 's the diameter of your hair -- a gecko has two million of these , and each hair has 100 to 1,000 split ends .
think of the contact of that that 's possible .
we were fortunate to work with another group at stanford that built us a special manned sensor , that we were able to measure the force of an individual hair .
here 's an individual hair with a little split end there . when we measured the forces , they were enormous . they were so large that a patch of hairs about this size -- the gecko 's foot could support the weight of a small child , about 40 pounds , easily . now , how do they do it ?
we 've recently discovered this . do they do it by friction ?
no , force is too low . do they do it by electrostatics ?
no , you can change the charge -- they still hold on .
do they do it by interlocking ? that 's kind of a like a velcro-like thing .
no , you can put them on molecular smooth surfaces -- they don 't do it .
how about suction ? they stick on in a vacuum .
how about wet adhesion ? or capillary adhesion ?
they don 't have any glue , and they even stick under water just fine .
if you put their foot under water , they grab on .
how do they do it then ? believe it or not , they grab on by intermolecular forces , by van der waals forces .
you know , you probably had this a long time ago in chemistry , where you had these two atoms , they 're close together , and the electrons are moving around . that tiny force is sufficient to allow them to do that because it 's added up so many times with these small structures .
what we 're doing is , we 're taking that inspiration of the hairs , and with another colleague at berkeley , we 're manufacturing them .
and just recently we 've made a breakthrough , where we now believe we 're going to be able to create the first synthetic , self-cleaning ,
dry adhesive . many companies are interested in this .
we also presented to nike even .
we 'll see where this goes . we were so excited about this that we realized that that small-size scale -- and where everything gets sticky , and gravity doesn 't matter anymore -- we needed to look at ants and their feet , because one of my other colleagues at berkeley has built a six-millimeter silicone robot with legs . but it gets stuck . it doesn 't move very well .
but the ants do , and we 'll figure out why , so that ultimately we 'll make this move . and imagine : you 're going to be able to have swarms of these six-millimeter robots available to run around .
where 's this going ? i think you can see it already .
clearly , the internet is already having eyes and ears , you have web cams and so forth . but it 's going to also have legs and hands .
you 're going to be able to do programmable work through these kinds of robots , so that you can run , fly and swim anywhere . we saw david kelly is at the beginning of that with his fish .
so , in conclusion , i think the message is clear .
if you need a message , if nature 's not enough , if you care about search and rescue , or mine clearance , or medicine , or the various things we 're working on , we must preserve nature 's designs , otherwise these secrets will be lost forever .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / adam _ grosser _ and _ his _ sustainable _ fridge.html
adam grosser talks about a project to build a refrigerator that works without electricity -- to bring the vital tool to villages and clinics worldwide . tweaking some old technology , he 's come up with a system that works .
design , food , global issues , invention , medicine , short talk , technology
285
adam grosser and his sustainable fridge
this is a work in process , based on some comments that were made at ted two years ago about the need for the storage of vaccine .
narrator : on this planet , 1.6 billion people don 't have access to electricity , refrigeration or stored fuels . this is a problem . it impacts : the spread of disease , the storage of food and medicine and the quality of life . so here 's the plan : inexpensive refrigeration that doesn 't use electricity , propane , gas , kerosene or consumables . time for some thermodynamics . and the story of the intermittent absorption refrigerator . adam grosser : so 29 years ago , i had this thermo teacher who talked about absorption and refrigeration .
it 's one of those things that stuck in my head .
it was a lot like the stirling engine : it was cool , but you didn 't know what to do with it .
and it was invented in 1858 , by this guy ferdinand carre , but he couldn 't actually build anything with it because of the tools of the time .
this crazy canadian named powel crosley commercialized this thing called the icyball in 1928 , and it was a really neat idea , and i 'll get to why it didn 't work , but here 's how it works .
there 's two spheres and they 're separated in distance .
one has a working fluid , water and ammonia , and the other is a condenser .
you heat up one side , the hot side .
the ammonia evaporates and it re-condenses in the other side .
you let it cool to room temperature , and then , as the ammonia re-evaporates and combines with the water back on the erstwhile hot side , it creates a powerful cooling effect .
so , it was a great idea that didn 't work at all : it blew up .
because using ammonia you get hugely high pressures if you heated them wrong .
it topped 400 psi . the ammonia was toxic . it sprayed everywhere .
but it was kind of an interesting thought .
so , the great thing about 2006 is there 's a lot of really great computational work you can do .
so , we got the whole thermodynamics department at stanford involved --
a lot of computational fluid dynamics .
we proved that most of the ammonia refrigeration tables are wrong .
we found some non-toxic refrigerants that worked at very low vapor pressures .
brought in a team from the u.k. -- there 's a lot of great refrigeration people , it turned out , in the u.k. -- and built a test rig , and proved that , in fact , we could make a low pressure , non-toxic refrigerator .
so , this is the way it works .
you put it on a cooking fire .
most people have cooking fires in the world , whether it 's camel dung or wood .
it heats up for about 30 minutes , cools for an hour .
put it into a container and it will refrigerate for 24 hours .
it looks like this . this is the fifth prototype . it 's not quite done .
weighs about eight pounds , and this is the way it works . you put it into a 15-liter vessel , about three gallons , and it 'll cool it down to just above freezing -- three degrees above freezing --
for 24 hours in a 30 degree c environment . it 's really cheap .
we think we can build these in high volumes for about 25 dollars , in low volumes for about 40 dollars .
and we think we can make refrigeration something that everybody can have .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / sheryl _ sandberg _ why _ we _ have _ too _ few _ women _ leaders.html
facebook coo sheryl sandberg looks at why a smaller percentage of women than men reach the top of their professions -- and offers 3 powerful pieces of advice to women aiming for the c-suite .
business , education , leadership , technology , women
1040
sheryl sandberg : why we have too few women leaders
so for any of us in this room today , let 's start out by admitting we 're lucky .
we don 't live in the world our mothers lived in , our grandmothers lived in , where career choices for women were so limited .
and if you 're in this room today , most of us grew up in a world where we had basic civil rights ,
and amazingly , we still live in a world where some women don 't have them .
but all that aside , we still have a problem , and it 's a real problem .
and the problem is this : women are not making it to the top of any profession anywhere in the world .
the numbers tell the story quite clearly .
190 heads of state -- nine are women .
of all the people in parliament in the world , 13 percent are women .
in the corporate sector , women at the top , c-level jobs , board seats -- tops out at 15 , 16 percent .
the numbers have not moved since 2002 and are going in the wrong direction .
and even in the non-profit world , a world we sometimes think of as being led by more women , women at the top : 20 percent .
we also have another problem , which is that women face harder choices between professional success and personal fulfillment .
a recent study in the u.s. showed that , of married senior managers , two-thirds of the married men had children and only one-third of the married women had children .
a couple of years ago , i was in new york , and i was pitching a deal , and i was in one of those fancy new york private equity offices you can picture .
and i 'm in the meeting -- it 's about a three-hour meeting -- and two hours in , there kind of needs to be that bio break , and everyone stands up , and the partner running the meeting starts looking really embarrassed .
and i realized he doesn 't know where the women 's room is in his office .
so i start looking around for moving boxes , figuring they just moved in , but i don 't see any .
and so i said , " did you just move into this office ? "
and he said , " no , we 've been here about a year . "
and i said , " are you telling me that i am the only woman to have pitched a deal in this office in a year ? "
and he looked at me , and he said , " yeah . or maybe you 're the only one who had to go to the bathroom . "
so the question is , how are we going to fix this ?
how do we change these numbers at the top ?
how do we make this different ?
i want to start out by saying , i talk about this -- about keeping women in the workforce -- because i really think that 's the answer .
in the high-income part of our workforce , in the people who end up at the top -- fortune 500 ceo jobs , or the equivalent in other industries -- the problem , i am convinced , is that women are dropping out .
now people talk about this a lot , and they talk about things like flextime and mentoring and programs companies should have to train women .
i want to talk about none of that today , even though that 's all really important .
today i want to focus on what we can do as individuals .
what are the messages we need to tell ourselves ?
what are the messages we tell the women who work with and for us ?
what are the messages we tell our daughters ?
now , at the outset , i want to be very clear that this speech comes with no judgments .
i don 't have the right answer . i don 't even have it for myself .
i left san francisco , where i live , on monday , and i was getting on the plane for this conference .
and my daughter , who 's three , when i dropped her off at preschool , did that whole hugging-the-leg , crying , " mommy , don 't get on the plane " thing .
this is hard . i feel guilty sometimes .
i know no women , whether they 're at home or whether they 're in the workforce , who don 't feel that sometimes .
so i 'm not saying that staying in the workforce is the right thing for everyone .
my talk today is about what the messages are if you do want to stay in the workforce ,
and i think there are three .
one , sit at the table .
two , make your partner a real partner .
and three , don 't leave before you leave .
number one : sit at the table .
just a couple weeks ago at facebook , we hosted a very senior government official , and he came in to meet with senior execs from around silicon valley .
and everyone kind of sat at the table .
and then he had these two women who were traveling with him who were pretty senior in his department ,
and i kind of said to them , " sit at the table . come on , sit at the table , "
and they sat on the side of the room .
when i was in college my senior year , i took a course called european intellectual history . don 't you love that kind of thing from college ? i wish i could do that now .
and i took it with my roommate , carrie , who was then a brilliant literary student -- and went on to be a brilliant literary scholar -- and my brother -- smart guy , but a water-polo-playing pre-med , who was a sophomore .
the three of us take this class together .
and then carrie reads all the books in the original greek and latin , goes to all the lectures . i read all the books in english and go to most of the lectures .
my brother is kind of busy . he reads one book of 12 and goes to a couple of lectures , marches himself up to our room a couple days before the exam to get himself tutored .
the three of us go to the exam together , and we sit down .
and we sit there for three hours -- and our little blue notebooks -- yes , i 'm that old .
and we walk out , and we look at each other , and we say , " how did you do ? "
and carrie says , " boy , i feel like i didn 't really draw out the main point on the hegelian dialectic . "
and i say , " god , i really wish i had really connected john locke 's theory of property with the philosophers who follow . "
and my brother says , " i got the top grade in the class . "
" you got the top grade in the class ?
you don 't know anything . "
the problem with these stories is that they show what the data shows : women systematically underestimate their own abilities .
if you test men and women , and you ask them questions on totally objective criteria like gpas , men get it wrong slightly high , and women get it wrong slightly low .
women do not negotiate for themselves in the workforce .
a study in the last two years of people entering the workforce out of college showed that 57 percent of boys entering , or men , i guess , are negotiating their first salary , and only seven percent of women .
and most importantly , men attribute their success to themselves , and women attribute it to other external factors .
if you ask men why they did a good job , they 'll say , " i 'm awesome .
obviously . why are you even asking ? "
if you ask women why they did a good job , what they 'll say is someone helped them , they got lucky , they worked really hard .
why does this matter ?
boy , it matters a lot because no one gets to the corner office by sitting on the side , not at the table ,
and no one gets the promotion if they don 't think they deserve their success ,
or they don 't even understand their own success .
i wish the answer were easy .
i wish i could just go tell all the young women i work for , all these fabulous women , " believe in yourself and negotiate for yourself .
own your own success . "
i wish i could tell that to my daughter .
but it 's not that simple .
because what the data shows , above all else , is one thing , which is that success and likeability are positively correlated for men and negatively correlated for women .
and everyone 's nodding , because we all know this to be true .
there 's a really good study that shows this really well .
there 's a famous harvard business school study on a woman named heidi roizen .
and she 's an operator in a company in silicon valley , and she uses her contacts to become a very successful venture capitalist .
in 2002 -- not so long ago -- a professor who was then at columbia university took that case and made it howard roizen .
and he gave the case out , both of them , to two groups of students .
he changed exactly one word : " heidi " to " howard . "
but that one word made a really big difference .
he then surveyed the students ,
and the good news was the students , both men and women , thought heidi and howard were equally competent ,
and that 's good .
the bad news was that everyone liked howard .
he 's a great guy . you want to work for him . you want to spend the day fishing with him .
but heidi ? not so sure .
she 's a little out for herself . she 's a little political .
you 're not sure you 'd want to work for her .
this is the complication .
we have to tell our daughters and our colleagues , we have to tell ourselves to believe we got the a , to reach for the promotion , to sit at the table ,
and we have to do it in a world where , for them , there are sacrifices they will make for that , even though for their brothers , there are not .
the saddest thing about all of this is that it 's really hard to remember this .
and i 'm about to tell a story which is truly embarrassing for me , but i think important .
i gave this talk at facebook not so long ago to about 100 employees ,
and a couple hours later , there was a young woman who works there sitting outside my little desk , and she wanted to talk to me .
i said , okay , and she sat down , and we talked .
and she said , " i learned something today .
i learned that i need to keep my hand up . "
i said , " what do you mean ? "
she said , " well , you 're giving this talk , and you said you were going to take two more questions .
and i had my hand up with lots of other people , and you took two more questions .
and i put my hand down , and i noticed all the women put their hand down ,
and then you took more questions , only from the men . "
and i thought to myself , wow , if it 's me -- who cares about this , obviously -- giving this talk -- and during this talk , i can 't even notice that the men 's hands are still raised , and the women 's hands are still raised , how good are we as managers of our companies and our organizations at seeing that the men are reaching for opportunities more than women ?
we 've got to get women to sit at the table .
message number two : make your partner a real partner .
i 've become convinced that we 've made more progress in the workforce than we have in the home .
the data shows this very clearly .
if a woman and a man work full-time and have a child , the woman does twice the amount of housework the man does , and the woman does three times the amount of childcare the man does .
so she 's got three jobs or two jobs , and he 's got one .
who do you think drops out when someone needs to be home more ?
the causes of this are really complicated , and i don 't have time to go into them .
and i don 't think sunday football-watching and general laziness is the cause .
i think the cause is more complicated .
i think , as a society , we put more pressure on our boys to succeed than we do on our girls .
i know men that stay home and work in the home to support wives with careers ,
and it 's hard .
when i go to the mommy-and-me stuff and i see the father there , i notice that the other mommies don 't play with him .
and that 's a problem , because we have to make it as important a job , because it 's the hardest job in the world to work inside the home , for people of both genders , if we 're going to even things out and let women stay in the workforce .
studies show that households with equal earning and equal responsibility also have half the divorce rate .
and if that wasn 't good enough motivation for everyone out there , they also have more -- how shall i say this on this stage ? -- they know each other more in the biblical sense as well .
message number three : don 't leave before you leave .
i think there 's a really deep irony to the fact that actions women are taking -- and i see this all the time -- with the objective of staying in the workforce actually lead to their eventually leaving .
here 's what happens : we 're all busy . everyone 's busy . a woman 's busy .
and she starts thinking about having a child ,
and from the moment she starts thinking about having a child , she starts thinking about making room for that child .
" how am i going to fit this into everything else i 'm doing ? "
and literally from that moment , she doesn 't raise her hand anymore , she doesn 't look for a promotion , she doesn 't take on the new project , she doesn 't say , " me . i want to do that . "
she starts leaning back .
the problem is that -- let 's say she got pregnant that day , that day -- nine months of pregnancy , three months of maternity leave , six months to catch your breath -- fast-forward two years , more often -- and as i 've seen it -- women start thinking about this way earlier -- when they get engaged , when they get married , when they start thinking about trying to have a child , which can take a long time .
one woman came to see me about this , and i kind of looked at her -- she looked a little young .
and i said , " so are you and your husband thinking about having a baby ? "
and she said , " oh no , i 'm not married . "
she didn 't even have a boyfriend .
i said , " you 're thinking about this just way too early . "
but the point is that what happens once you start kind of quietly leaning back ?
everyone who 's been through this -- and i 'm here to tell you , once you have a child at home , your job better be really good to go back , because it 's hard to leave that kid at home -- your job needs to be challenging .
it needs to be rewarding .
you need to feel like you 're making a difference .
and if two years ago you didn 't take a promotion and some guy next to you did , if three years ago you stopped looking for new opportunities , you 're going to be bored because you should have kept your foot on the gas pedal .
don 't leave before you leave .
stay in .
keep your foot on the gas pedal , until the very day you need to leave to take a break for a child -- and then make your decisions .
don 't make decisions too far in advance , particularly ones you 're not even conscious you 're making .
my generation really , sadly , is not going to change the numbers at the top .
they 're just not moving .
we are not going to get to where 50 percent of the population -- in my generation , there will not be 50 percent of [ women ] at the top of any industry .
but i 'm hopeful that future generations can .
i think a world that was run where half of our countries and half of our companies were run by women , would be a better world .
and it 's not just because people would know where the women 's bathrooms are , even though that would be very helpful .
i think it would be a better world .
i have two children .
i have a five-year-old son and a two-year-old daughter .
i want my son to have a choice to contribute fully in the workforce or at home , and i want my daughter to have the choice to not just succeed , but to be liked for her accomplishments .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / thomas _ goetz _ it _ s _ time _ to _ redesign _ medical _ data.html
your medical chart : it 's hard to access , impossible to read -- and full of information that could make you healthier if you just knew how to use it . at tedmed , thomas goetz looks at medical data , making a bold call to redesign it and get more insight from it .
business , design , health , medicine , science , technology
1060
thomas goetz : it 's time to redesign medical data
i 'm going to be talking to you about how we can tap a really underutilized resource in health care , which is the patient , or , as i like to use the scientific term , people .
because we are all patients , we are all people .
even doctors are patients at some point .
so i want to talk about that as an opportunity that we really have failed to engage with very well in this country and , in fact , worldwide .
if you want to get at the big part -- i mean from a public health level , where my training is -- you 're looking at behavioral issues . you 're looking at things where people are actually given information , and they 're not following through with it .
it 's a problem that manifests itself in diabetes , obesity , many forms of heart disease , even some forms of cancer -- when you think of smoking .
those are all behaviors where people know what they 're supposed to do .
they know what they 're supposed to be doing ,
but they 're not doing it .
now behavior change is something that is a long-standing problem in medicine .
it goes all the way back to aristotle .
and doctors hate it , right ?
i mean , they complain about it all the time .
we talk about it in terms of engagement , or non-compliance . when people don 't take their pills , when people don 't follow doctors ' orders --
these are behavior problems .
but for as much as clinical medicine agonizes over behavior change , there 's not a lot of work done in terms of trying to fix that problem .
so the crux of it comes down to this notion of decision-making -- giving information to people in a form that doesn 't just educate them or inform them , but actually leads them to make better decisions , better choices in their lives .
one part of medicine , though , has faced the problem of behavior change pretty well , and that 's dentistry .
dentistry might seem -- and i think it is -- many dentists would have to acknowledge it 's somewhat of a mundane backwater of medicine .
not a lot of cool , sexy stuff happening in dentistry .
but they have really taken this problem of behavior change
and solved it .
it 's the one great preventive health success we have in our health care system .
people brush and floss their teeth .
they don 't do it as much as they should , but they do it .
so i 'm going to talk about one experiment that a few dentists in connecticut cooked up about 30 years ago .
so this is an old experiment , but it 's a really good one , because it was very simple , so it 's an easy story to tell .
so these connecticut dentists decided that they wanted to get people to brush their teeth and floss their teeth more often ,
and they were going to use one variable : they wanted to scare them .
they wanted to tell them how bad it would be if they didn 't brush and floss their teeth .
they had a big patient population .
they divided them up into two groups .
they had a low-fear population , where they basically gave them a 13-minute presentation , all based in science , but told them that , if you didn 't brush and floss your teeth , you could get gum disease . if you get gum disease , you will lose your teeth , but you 'll get dentures , and it won 't be that bad .
so that was the low-fear group .
the high-fear group , they laid it on really thick .
they showed bloody gums . they showed puss oozing out from between their teeth . they told them that their teeth were going to fall out . they said that they could have infections that would spread from their jaws to other parts of their bodies , and ultimately , yes , they would lose their teeth .
they would get dentures , and if you got dentures , you weren 't going to be able to eat corn-on-the-cob , you weren 't going to be able to eat apples , you weren 't going to be able to eat steak . you 'll eat mush for the rest of your life .
so go brush and floss your teeth .
that was the message . that was the experiment .
now they measured one other variable .
they wanted to capture one other variable , which was the patients ' sense of efficacy .
this was the notion of whether the patients felt that they actually would go ahead and brush and floss their teeth .
so they asked them at the beginning , " do you think you 'll actually be able to stick with this program ? "
and the people who said , " yeah , yeah . i 'm pretty good about that , " they were characterized as high efficacy , and the people who said , " eh , i never get around to brushing and flossing as much as i should , " they were characterized as low efficacy .
so the upshot was this .
the upshot of this experiment was that fear was not really a primary driver the people who brushed and flossed their teeth were not necessarily the people who were really scared about what would happen -- it 's the people who simply felt that they had the capacity to change their behavior .
so fear showed up as not really the driver . it was the sense of efficacy .
so i want to isolate this , because it was a great observation -- 30 years ago , right , 30 years ago -- and it 's one that 's laid fallow in research . it was a notion that really came out of albert bandura 's work , who studied whether people could get a sense of empowerment .
the notion of efficacy basically boils down to one -- that if somebody believes that they have the capacity to change their behavior .
in health care terms , you could characterize this as whether or not somebody feels that they see a path towards better health , that they can actually see their way towards getting better health ,
and that 's a very important notion .
it 's an amazing notion .
we don 't really know how to manipulate it , though , that well .
except , maybe we do .
so fear doesn 't work , right ? fear doesn 't work .
and this is a great example of how we haven 't learned that lesson at all .
this is a campaign from the american diabetes association .
this is still the way we 're communicating messages about health .
i mean , i showed my three-year-old this slide last night , and he 's like , " papa , why is an ambulance in these people 's homes ? "
and i had to explain , " they 're trying to scare people . "
and i don 't know if it works .
now here 's what does work : personalized information works .
again , bandura recognized this years ago , decades ago .
when you give people specific information about their health , where they stand , and where they want to get to , where they might get to , that path , that notion of a path -- that tends to work for behavior change .
so let me just spool it out a little bit .
so you start with personalized data , personalized information that comes from an individual , and then you need to connect it to their lives .
you need to connect it to their lives , hopefully not in a fear-based way , but one that they understand .
okay , i know where i sit . i know where i 'm situated .
and that doesn 't just work for me in terms of abstract numbers -- this overload of health information that we 're inundated with . but it actually hits home .
it 's not just hitting us in our heads ; it 's hitting us in our hearts .
there 's an emotional connection to information because it 's from us .
that information then needs to be connected to choices , needs to be connected to a range of options , directions that we might go to -- trade-offs , benefits .
finally , we need to be presented with a clear point of action .
we need to connect the information always with the action , and then that action feeds back into different information , and it creates , of course , a feedback loop .
now this is a very well-observed and well-established notion for behavior change .
but the problem is that things -- in the upper-right corner there -- personalized data , it 's been pretty hard to come by .
it 's a difficult and expensive commodity , until now .
so i 'm going to give you an example , a very simple example of how this works .
so we 've all seen these . these are the " your speed limit " signs .
you 've seen them all around , especially these days as radars are cheaper .
and here 's how they work in the feedback loop .
so you start with the personalized data where the speed limit on the road that you are at that point is 25 , and , of course , you 're going faster than that .
we always are . we 're always going above the speed limit .
the choice in this case is pretty simple .
we either keep going fast , or we slow down .
we should probably slow down , and that point of action is probably now .
we should take our foot off the pedal right now ,
and generally we do . these things are shown to be pretty effective in terms of getting people to slow down .
they reduce speeds by about five to 10 percent .
they last for about five miles , in which case we put our foot back on the pedal . but it works , and it even has some health repercussions .
your blood pressure might drop a little bit .
maybe there 's fewer accidents , so there 's public health benefits .
but by and large , this is a feedback loop that 's so nifty and too rare .
because in health care , most health care , the data is very removed from the action .
it 's very difficult to line things up so neatly .
but we have an opportunity .
so i want to talk about , i want to shift now to think about how we deliver health information in this country , how we actually get information .
this is a pharmaceutical ad .
actually , it 's a spoof . it 's not a real pharmaceutical ad .
nobody 's had the brilliant idea of calling their drug havidol quite yet .
but it looks completely right .
so it 's exactly the way we get health information and pharmaceutical information , and it just sounds perfect .
and then we turn the page of the magazine , and we see this --
now this is the page the fda requires pharmaceutical companies to put into their ads , or to follow their ads ,
and to me , this is one of the cynical exercises in medicine .
because we know .
who among us would actually say that people read this ?
and who among us would actually say that people who do try to read this actually get anything out of it ?
this is a bankrupt effort at communicating health information .
there is no good faith in this .
so this is a different approach .
this is an approach that has been developed by a couple researchers at dartmouth medical school , lisa schwartz and steven woloshin .
and they created this thing called the " drug facts box . "
they took inspiration from , of all things , cap 'n crunch .
they went to the nutritional information box and saw that what works for cereal , works for our food , actually helps people understand what 's in their food .
god forbid we should use that same standard that we make cap 'n crunch live by and bring it to drug companies .
so let me just walk through this quickly .
it says very clearly what the drug is for , specifically who it is good for , so you can start to personalize your understanding of whether the information is relevant to you or whether the drug is relevant to you .
you can understand exactly what the benefits are .
it isn 't this kind of vague promise that it 's going to work no matter what , but you get the statistics for how effective it is .
and finally , you understand what those choices are .
you can start to unpack the choices involved because of the side effects .
every time you take a drug , you 're walking into a possible side effect .
so it spells those out in very clean terms ,
and that works .
so i love this . i love that drug facts box .
and so i was thinking about , what 's an opportunity that i could have to help people understand information ?
what 's another latent body of information that 's out there that people are really not putting to use ?
and so i came up with this : lab test results .
blood test results are this great source of information .
they 're packed with information .
they 're just not for us . they 're not for people . they 're not for patients .
they go right to doctors .
and god forbid -- i think many doctors , if you really asked them , they don 't really understand all this stuff either .
this is the worst presented information .
you ask tufte , and he would say , " yes , this is the absolute worst presentation of information possible . "
what we did at wired was we went , and i got our graphic design department to re-imagine these lab reports .
so that 's what i want to walk you through .
so this is the general blood work before , and this is the after , this is what we came up with .
the after takes what was four pages -- that previous slide was actually the first of four pages of data that 's just the general blood work .
it goes on and on and on , all these values , all these numbers you don 't know .
this is our one-page summary .
we use the notion of color .
it 's an amazing notion that color could be used .
so on the top-level you have your overall results , the things that might jump out at you from the fine print .
then you can drill down and understand how actually we put your level in context , and we use color to illustrate exactly where your value falls .
in this case , this patient is slightly at risk of diabetes because of their glucose level .
likewise , you can go over your lipids and , again , understand what your overall cholesterol level is and then break down into the hdl and the ldl if you so choose .
but again , always using color and personalized proximity to that information .
all those other values , all those pages and pages of values that are full of nothing , we summarize .
we tell you that you 're okay , you 're normal .
but you don 't have to wade through it . you don 't have to go through the junk .
and then we do two other very important things that kind of help fill in this feedback loop :
we help people understand in a little more detail what these values are and what they might indicate .
and then we go a further step -- we tell them what they can do .
we give them some insight into what choices they can make , what actions they can take .
so that 's our general blood work test .
then we went to crp test .
in this case , it 's a sin of omission .
they have this huge amount of space , and they don 't use it for anything , so we do .
now the crp test is often done following a cholesterol test , or in conjunction with a cholesterol test .
so we take the bold step of putting the cholesterol information on the same page , which is the way the doctor is going to evaluate it .
so we thought the patient might actually want to know the context as well .
it 's a protein that shows up when your blood vessels might be inflamed , which might be a risk for heart disease .
what you 're actually measuring is spelled out in clean language .
then we use the information that 's already in the lab report .
we use the person 's age and their gender to start to fill in the personalized risks .
so we start to use the data we have to run a very simple calculation that 's on all sorts of online calculators to get a sense of what the actual risk is .
the last one i 'll show you is a psa test .
here 's the before , and here 's the after .
now a lot of our effort on this one -- as many of you probably know , a psa test is a very controversial test .
it 's used to test for prostate cancer , but there are all sorts of reasons why your prostate might be enlarged .
and so we spent a good deal of our time indicating that .
we again personalized the risks .
so this patient is in their 50s , so we can actually give them a very precise estimate of what their risk for prostate cancer is .
in this case it 's about 25 percent , based on that .
and then again , the follow-up actions .
so our cost for this was less than 10,000 dollars , all right .
that 's what wired magazine spent on this .
why is wired magazine doing this ?
quest diagnostics and labcorp , the two largest lab testing companies -- last year , they made profits of over 700 million dollars and over 500 million dollars respectively .
now this is not a problem of resources ; this is a problem of incentives .
we need to recognize that the target of this information should not be the doctor , should not be the insurance company . it should be the patient .
it 's the person who actually , in the end , is going to be having to change their lives and then start adopting new behaviors .
this is information that is incredibly powerful .
it 's an incredibly powerful catalyst to change .
but we 're not using it . it 's just sitting there .
it 's being lost .
so i want to just offer four questions that every patient should ask , because i don 't actually expect people to start developing these lab test reports .
but you can create your own feedback loop .
anybody can create their feedback loop by asking these simple questions : can i have my results ?
and the only acceptable answer is -- -- yes .
what does this mean ? help me understand what the data is .
what are my options ? what choices are now on the table ?
and then , what 's next ?
how do i integrate this information into the longer course of my life ?
so i want to wind up by just showing that people have the capacity to understand this information .
this is not beyond the grasp of ordinary people .
you do not need to have the education level of people in this room .
ordinary people are capable of understanding this information , if we only go to the effort of presenting it to them in a form that they can engage with .
and engagement is essential here , because it 's not just giving them information ; it 's giving them an opportunity to act .
that 's what engagement is . it 's different from compliance .
it works totally different from the way we talk about behavior in medicine today .
and this information is out there .
i 've been talking today about latent information , all this information that exists in the system that we 're not putting to use .
but there are all sorts of other bodies of information that are coming online ,
and we need to recognize the capacity of this information to engage people , to help people and to change the course of their lives .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / sirena _ huang _ dazzles _ on _ violin.html
violinist sirena huang gives a technically brilliant and emotionally nuanced performance . in a charming interlude , the 11-year-old praises the timeless design of her instrument .
featured , arts , entertainment , music , performance , prodigy , violin , wunderkind
45
sirena huang dazzles on violin
hi everyone . i 'm sirena .
i 'm 11 years old and from connecticut .
well , i 'm not really sure why i 'm here .
i mean , what does this have to do with technology , entertainment and design ?
well , i count my ipod , cellphone and computer as technology but this has nothing to do with that .
so i did a little research on it .
well , this is what i found .
of course , i hope i can memorize it .
the violin is basically made of a wood box and four main strings .
by playing the string , the string vibrates
and produces a sound wave .
sound passes through a piece of wood called a bridge and goes down to the wood box and gets amplified but ... let me think . okay . on the other hand by placing your finger in a different position on the fingerboard it changes the string length , that changes the frequency of the sound wave .
oh , my gosh !
okay . this is sort of a technology but i can call it a 16th-century technology . but actually , the most fascinating thing that i found was that even the audio system or wave transmission nowadays are still basically based on the same principle of producing and projecting sound .
isn 't that cool ?
design -- i love its design .
i remember when i was little my mom asked me , would you like to play the violin or the piano ?
i looked at that giant monster and said to myself -- i am not going to lock myself on that bench the whole day .
this is small and lightweight . i can play from standing , sitting or walking .
and you know what ?
the best of all is that if i don 't want to practice , i can hide it .
the violin is very beautiful .
some people relate it as the shape of a lady but , whether you like it or not , it 's been so for more than 400 years , unlike modern stuff that easily looks dated .
but i think it 's very personal and unique that , although each violin looks pretty similar , that no two violins sound the same .
even from the same maker or based on the same model .
entertainment -- i love the entertainment , but actually , the instrument itself isn 't very entertaining .
i mean , when i first got my violin and tried to play around , it was actually , really bad because it didn 't sound like the way i 'd heard from other kids -- so horrible and so scratchy -- so it wasn 't entertaining at all .
but besides , my brother found this very funny .
yuk , yuk , yuk .
a few years later i heard a joke about the greatest violinist , jascha heifetz . after mr. heifetz 's concert a lady came over and complimented , " oh , mr. heifetz , your violin sounded so great tonight . "
and mr. heifetz was a very cool person , so he picked up his violin and said , " funny , i don 't hear anything . "
and now , i realize that as the musician , we human beings , we have a great mind , artistic heart and skill that can change the 16th-century technology and a legendary design to a wonderful entertainment . now , i know why i 'm here .
at first i thought i was just going to be here to perform , but unexpectedly , i learned and enjoyed much more .
but ... although some of them were quite up there for me .
like the multi-dimension stuff .
i mean , honestly , i 'd be happy enough if i can actually get my two dimension correct in school .
but actually , the most impressive thing to me is that ... well , actually , i would also like to stand this for all children is to say , thank you , to all adults for actually caring for us a lot and to make our future world much better .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / michael _ pollan _ gives _ a _ plant _ s _ eye _ view.html
what if human consciousness isn 't the end-all and be-all of darwinism ? what if we are all just pawns in corn 's clever strategy game to rule the earth ? author michael pollan asks us to see the world from a plant 's-eye view .
animals , business , cooperation , culture , evolution , food , global issues , science
214
michael pollan gives a plant 's-eye view
it 's a simple idea about nature . i want to say a word for nature because we haven 't talked that much about it the last couple days .
i want to say a word for the soil and the bees and the plants and the animals , and tell you about a tool , a very simple tool that i have found .
although it 's really nothing more than a literary conceit ; it 's not a technology . it 's very powerful for , i think , changing our relationship to the natural world and to the other species on whom we depend .
and that tool is very simply , as chris suggested , looking at us and the world from the plants ' or the animals ' point of view .
it 's not my idea , other people have hit on it , but i 've tried to take it to some new places .
let me tell you where i got it .
like a lot of my ideas , like a lot of the tools i use , i found it in the garden ; i 'm a very devoted gardener .
and there was a day about seven years ago : i was planting potatoes ,
it was the first week of may --
this is new england , when the apple trees are just vibrating with bloom ;
they 're just white clouds above .
i was here , planting my chunks , cutting up potatoes and planting it ,
and the bees were working on this tree ;
bumblebees , just making this thing vibrate . and one of the things i really like about gardening is that it doesn 't take all your concentration ,
you really can 't get hurt -- it 's not like woodworking --
and you have plenty of kind of mental space for speculation .
and the question i asked myself that afternoon in the garden , working alongside that bumblebee , was : what did i and that bumblebee have in common ?
how was our role in this garden similar and different ?
and i realized we actually had quite a bit in common :
both of us were disseminating the genes of one species and not another ,
and both of us -- probably , if i can imagine the bee 's point of view -- thought we were calling the shots .
i had decided what kind of potato i wanted to plant --
i had picked my yukon gold or yellow finn , or whatever it was --
and i had summoned those genes from a seed catalog across the country , brought it , and i was planting it .
and that bee , no doubt , assumed that it had decided , " i 'm going for that apple tree , i 'm going for that blossom , i 'm going to get the nectar and i 'm going to leave . "
we have a grammar that suggests that 's who we are ; that we are sovereign subjects in nature , the bee as well as me .
i plant the potatoes , i weed the garden , i domesticate the species .
but that day , it occurred to me : what if that grammar is nothing more than a self-serving conceit ?
because , of course , the bee thinks he 's in charge or she 's in charge ,
but we know better .
we know that what 's going on between the bee and that flower is that bee has been cleverly manipulated by that flower .
and when i say manipulated , i 'm talking about in a darwinian sense , right ?
i mean it has evolved a very specific set of traits -- color , scent , flavor , pattern -- that has lured that bee in .
and the bee has been cleverly fooled into taking the nectar , and also picking up some powder on its leg ,
and going off to the next blossom .
the bee is not calling the shots .
and i realized then , i wasn 't either .
i had been seduced by that potato and not another into planting its -- into spreading its genes , giving it a little bit more habitat .
and that 's when i got the idea , which was , " well , what would happen if we kind of looked at us from this point of view of these other species who are working on us ? "
and agriculture suddenly appeared to me not as an invention , not as a human technology , but as a co-evolutionary development in which a group of very clever species , mostly edible grasses , had exploited us , figured out how to get us to basically deforest the world .
the competition of grasses , right ?
and suddenly everything looked different .
and suddenly mowing the lawn that day was a completely different experience .
i had thought always -- and in fact , had written this in my first book ; this was a book about gardening -- that lawns were nature under culture 's boot ,
that they were totalitarian landscapes ,
and that when we mowed them we were cruelly suppressing the species and never letting it set seed or die or have sex .
and that 's what the lawn was .
but then i realized , " no , this is exactly what the grasses want us to do .
i 'm a dupe . i 'm a dupe of the lawns , whose goal in life is to outcompete the trees , who they compete with for sunlight . "
and so by getting us to mow the lawn , we keep the trees from coming back , which in new england happens very , very quickly .
so i started looking at things this way and wrote a whole book about it called " the botany of desire . "
and i realized that in the same way you can look at a flower and deduce all sorts of interesting things about the taste and the desires of bees -- that they like sweetness , that they like this color and not that color , that they like symmetry --
what could we find out about ourselves by doing the same thing ?
that a certain kind of potato , a certain kind of drug , a sativa-indica cannabis cross has something to say about us .
and that , wouldn 't this be kind of an interesting way to look at the world ?
now , the test of any idea -- i said it was a literary conceit -- is what does it get us ?
and when you 're talking about nature , which is really my subject as a writer , how does it meet the aldo leopold test ?
which is , does it make us better citizens of the biotic community ?
get us to do things that leads to the support and perpetuation of the biota , rather than its destruction ?
and i would submit that this idea does this .
so , let me go through what you gain when you look at the world this way , besides some entertaining insights about human desire .
as an intellectual matter , looking at the world from other species ' points of view helps us deal with this weird anomaly ,
which is -- and this is in the realm of intellectual history -- which is that we have this darwinian revolution 150 years ago ... ugh . mini-me . we have this intellectual , this darwinian revolution in which , thanks to darwin , we figured out we are just one species among many ;
evolution is working on us the same way it 's working on all the others ;
we are acted upon as well as acting ;
we are really in the fiber , the fabric of life .
but the weird thing is , we have not absorbed this lesson 150 years later ;
none of us really believes this .
we are still cartesians -- the children of descartes -- who believe that subjectivity , consciousness , sets us apart ;
that the world is divided into subjects and objects ;
that there is nature on one side , culture on another .
as soon as you start seeing things from the plant 's point of view or the animal 's point of view , you realize that the real literary conceit is that --
is the idea that nature is opposed to culture ,
the idea that consciousness is everything --
and that 's another very important thing it does .
looking at the world from other species ' points of view is a cure for the disease of human self-importance .
you suddenly realize that consciousness -- which we value and we consider the crowning achievement of nature , human consciousness -- is really just another set of tools for getting along in the world .
and it 's kind of natural that we would think it was the best tool .
but , you know , there 's a comedian who said , " well , who 's telling me that consciousness is so good and so important ?
well , consciousness . "
so when you look at the plants , you realize that there are other tools and they 're just as interesting .
i 'll give you two examples , also from the garden :
lima beans . you know what a lima bean does when it 's attacked by spider mites ?
it releases this volatile chemical that goes out into the world and summons another species of mite that comes in and attacks the spider mite , defending the lima bean .
so what plants have -- while we have consciousness , tool making , language , they have biochemistry .
and they have perfected that to a degree far beyond what we can imagine .
their complexity , their sophistication , is something to really marvel at ,
and i think it 's really the scandal of the human genome project .
you know , we went into it thinking , 40,000 or 50,000 human genes
and we came out with only 23,000 .
just to give you grounds for comparison , rice : 35,000 genes .
so who 's the more sophisticated species ?
well , we 're all equally sophisticated .
we 've been evolving just as long , just along different paths .
so , cure for self-importance , way to sort of make us feel the darwinian idea .
and that 's really what i do as a writer , as a storyteller , is try to make people feel what we know and tell stories that actually help us think ecologically .
now , the other use of this is practical .
and i 'm going to take you to a farm right now ,
because i used this idea to develop my understanding of the food system and what i learned , in fact , is that we are all , now , being manipulated by corn .
and the talk you heard about ethanol earlier today , to me , is the final triumph of corn over good sense .
it is part of corn 's scheme for world domination .
and you will see , the amount of corn planted this year will be up dramatically from last year and there will be that much more habitat because we 've decided ethanol is going to help us .
so it helped me understand industrial agriculture , which of course is a cartesian system .
it 's based on this idea that we bend other species to our will and that we are in charge , and that we create these factories and we have these technological inputs and we get the food out of it or the fuel or whatever we want .
let me take you to a very different kind of farm .
this is a farm in the shenandoah valley of virginia .
i went looking for a farm where these ideas about looking at things from the species ' point of view are actually implemented ,
and i found it in a man . the farmer 's name is joel salatin . and i spent a week as an apprentice on his farm ,
and i took away from this some of the most hopeful news about our relationship to nature that i 've ever come across in 25 years of writing about nature .
and that is this :
the farm is called polyface , which means ... the idea is he 's got six different species of animals , as well as some plants , growing in this very elaborate symbiotic arrangement .
it 's permaculture , those of you who know a little bit about this , such that the cows and the pigs and the sheep and the turkeys and the ... what else does he have ?
all the six different species -- rabbits , actually -- are all performing ecological services for one another , such that the manure of one is the lunch for the other and they take care of pests for one another .
it 's a very elaborate and beautiful dance , but i 'm going to just give you a close-up on one piece of it ,
and that is the relationship between his cattle and his chickens , his laying hens .
and i 'll show you , if you take this approach , what you get , ok ?
and this is a lot more than growing food , as you 'll see ;
this is a different way to think about nature and a way to get away from the zero-sum notion , the cartesian idea that either nature 's winning or we 're winning , and that for us to get what we want , nature is diminished .
so , one day , cattle in a pen .
the only technology involved here is this cheap electric fencing : relatively new , hooked to a car battery ;
even i could carry a quarter-acre paddock , set it up in 15 minutes .
cows graze one day . they move , ok ?
they graze everything down , intensive grazing .
he waits three days ,
and then we towed in something called the eggmobile .
the eggmobile is a very rickety contraption --
it looks like a prairie schooner made out of boards -- but it houses 350 chickens .
he tows this into the paddock three days later and opens the gangplank , turns them down , and 350 hens come streaming down the gangplank -- clucking , gossiping as chickens will --
and they make a beeline for the cow patties .
and what they 're doing is very interesting :
they 're digging through the cow patties for the maggots , the grubs , the larvae of flies .
and the reason he 's waited three days is because he knows that on the fourth day or the fifth day , those larvae will hatch and he 'll have a huge fly problem .
but he waits that long to grow them as big and juicy and tasty as he can
because they are the chickens ' favorite form of protein .
so the chickens do their kind of little breakdance and they 're pushing around the manure to get at the grubs , and in the process they 're spreading the manure out .
very useful second ecosystem service .
and third , while they 're in this paddock they are , of course , defecating madly and their very nitrogenous manure is fertilizing this field .
they then move out to the next one , and in the course of just a few weeks , the grass just enters this blaze of growth . and within four or five weeks , he can do it again .
he can graze again , he can cut , he can bring in another species , like the lambs , or he can make hay for the winter .
now , i want you to just look really close up onto what 's happened there .
so , it 's a very productive system .
and what i need to tell you is that on 100 acres he gets 40,000 pounds of beef ; 30,000 pounds of pork ; 25,000 dozen eggs ; 20,000 broilers ; 1,000 turkeys ; 1,000 rabbits -- an immense amount of food .
you know , you hear , " can organic feed the world ? "
well , look how much food you can produce on 100 acres if you do this kind of ... again , give each species what it wants ,
let it realize its desires , its physiological distinctiveness .
put that in play .
but look at it from the point of view of the grass , now .
what happens to the grass when you do this ?
when a ruminant grazes grass , the grass is cut from this height to this height ,
and it immediately does something very interesting .
any one of you who gardens knows that there is something called the root-shoot ratio ,
and plants need to keep the root mass in some rough balance with the leaf mass to be happy .
so when they lose a lot of leaf mass , they shed roots ;
they kind of cauterize them and the roots die .
and the species in the soil go to work basically chewing through those roots , decomposing them -- the earthworms , the fungi , the bacteria -- and the result is new soil .
this is how soil is created .
it 's created from the bottom up .
this is how the prairies were built , the relationship between bison and grasses .
and what i realized when i understood this -- and if you ask joel salatin what he is , he 'll tell you he 's not a chicken farmer , he 's not a sheep farmer , he 's not a cattle rancher ; he 's a grass farmer , because grass is really the keystone species of such a system -- is that , if you think about it , this completely contradicts the tragic idea of nature we hold in our heads , which is that for us to get what we want , nature is diminished .
more for us , less for nature .
here , all this food comes off this farm , and at the end of the season there is actually more soil , more fertility and more biodiversity .
it 's a remarkably hopeful thing to do .
there are a lot of farmers doing this today .
this is well beyond organic agriculture , which is still a cartesian system , more or less .
and what it tells you is that if you begin to take account of other species , take account of the soil , that even with nothing more than this perspectival idea -- because there is no technology involved here except for those fences , which are so cheap they could be all over africa in no time -- that we can take the food we need from the earth and actually heal the earth in the process .
this is a way to reanimate the world ,
and that 's what 's so exciting about this perspective .
when we really begin to feel darwin 's insights in our bones , the things we can do with nothing more than these ideas are something to be very hopeful about .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / john _ maeda _ how _ art _ technology _ and _ design _ inform _ creative _ leaders.html
john maeda , president of the rhode island school of design , delivers a funny and charming talk that spans a lifetime of work in art , design and technology , concluding with a picture of creative leadership in the future . watch for demos of maeda 's earliest work -- and even a computer made of people .
internet , art , arts , computers , creativity , design , humor , leadership , technology
1571
john maeda : how art , technology and design inform creative leaders
i have to say that i 'm very glad to be here .
i understand we have over 80 countries here , so that 's a whole new paradigm for me to speak to all of these countries .
in each country , i 'm sure you have this thing called the parent-teacher conference .
do you know about the parent-teacher conference ?
not the ones for your kids , but the one you had as a child , where your parents come to school and your teacher talks to your parents , and it 's a little bit awkward .
well , i remember in third grade , i had this moment where my father , who never takes off from work , he 's a classical blue collar , a working-class immigrant person , going to school to see his son , how he 's doing , and the teacher said to him , he said , " you know , john is good at math and art . "
and he kind of nodded , you know ?
the next day i saw him talking to a customer at our tofu store , and he said , " you know , john 's good at math . "
and that always stuck with me all my life .
why didn 't dad say art ? why wasn 't it okay ?
why ? it became a question my entire life , and that 's all right , because being good at math meant he bought me a computer , and some of you remember this computer , this was my first computer .
who had an apple ii ? apple ii users , very cool .
as you remember , the apple ii did nothing at all .
you 'd plug it in , you 'd type in it and green text would come out .
it would say you 're wrong most of the time .
that was the computer we knew .
that computer is a computer that i learned about going to mit , my father 's dream . and at mit , however , i learned about the computer at all levels , and after , i went to art school to get away from computers , and i began to think about the computer as more of a spiritual space of thinking .
and i was influenced by performance art --
so this is 20 years ago . i made a computer out of people .
it was called the human powered computer experiment .
i have a power manager , mouse driver , memory , etc . , and i built this in kyoto , the old capital of japan .
it 's a room broken in two halves .
i 've turned the computer on , and these assistants are placing a giant floppy disk built out of cardboard , and it 's put into the computer .
and the floppy disk drive person wears it .
she finds the first sector on the disk , and takes data off the disk and passes it off to , of course , the bus .
so the bus diligently carries the data into the computer to the memory , to the cpu , the vram , etc . , and it 's an actual working computer . that 's a bus , really .
and it looks kind of fast . that 's a mouse driver , where it 's xy .
it looks like it 's happening kind of quickly , but it 's actually a very slow computer , and when i realized how slow this computer was compared to how fast a computer is , it made me wonder about computers and technology in general .
and so i 'm going to talk today about four things , really .
the first three things are about how i 've been curious about technology , design and art , and how they intersect , how they overlap , and also a topic that i 've taken on since four years ago i became the president and i 'll talk about how i 've looked to combine these four areas into a kind of a synthesis , a kind of experiment .
so starting from technology , technology is a wonderful thing .
when that apple ii came out , it really could do nothing .
it could show text and after we waited a bit , we had these things called images .
remember when images were first possible with a computer , those gorgeous , full-color images ?
and then after a few years , we got cd-quality sound .
it was incredible . you could listen to sound on the computer .
and then movies , via cd-rom . it was amazing .
remember that excitement ?
and then the browser appeared . the browser was great , but the browser was very primitive , very narrow bandwidth .
text first , then images , we waited , cd-quality sound over the net , then movies over the internet . kind of incredible .
and then the mobile phone occurred , text , images , audio , video . and now we have iphone , ipad , android , with text , video , audio , etc .
you see this little pattern here ?
we 're kind of stuck in a loop , perhaps , and this sense of possibility from computing is something i 've been questioning for the last 10 or so years , and have looked to design , as we understand most things , and to understand design with our technology has been a passion of mine .
and i have a small experiment to give you a quick design lesson .
designers talk about the relationship between form and content , content and form . now what does that mean ?
well , content is the word up there : fear . it 's a four-letter word . it 's a kind of a bad feeling word , fear .
fear is set in light helvetica , so it 's not too stressful , and if you set it in ultra light helvetica , it 's like , " oh , fear , who cares ? " right ?
you take the same ultra light helvetica and make it big , and like , whoa , that hurts . fear .
so you can see how you change the scale , you change
the form . content is the same , but you feel differently .
you change the typeface to , like , this typeface , and it 's kind of funny . it 's like pirate typeface , like captain jack sparrow typeface . arr ! fear !
like , aww , that 's not fearful . that 's actually funny .
or fear like this , kind of a nightclub typeface . like , we gotta go to fear .
it 's , like , amazing , right ?
it just changes the same content .
or you make it -- the letters are separated apart , they 're huddled together like on the deck of the titanic , and you feel sorry for the letters , like , i feel the fear .
you feel for them .
or you change the typeface to something like this .
it 's very classy . it 's like that expensive restaurant , fear .
i can never get in there .
it 's just amazing , fear . but that 's form , content .
if you just change one letter in that content , you get a much better word , much better content : free .
" free " is a great word . you can serve it almost any way .
free bold feels like mandela free .
it 's like , yes , i can be free .
free even light feels kind of like , ah , i can breathe in free .
it feels great . or even free spread out , it 's like , ah , i can breathe in free , so easily .
and i can add in a blue gradient and a dove , and i have , like , don draper free .
so you see that -- form , content , design , it works that way .
it 's a powerful thing . it 's like magic , almost , like the magicians we 've seen at ted . it 's magic .
design does that .
and i 've been curious about how design and technology intersect , and i 'm going to show you some old work i never really show anymore , to give you a sense of what i used to do .
so -- yeah .
so i made a lot of work in the ' 90s .
this was a square that responds to sound .
people ask me why i made that . it 's not clear .
but i thought it 'd be neat for the square to respond to me , and my kids were small then , and my kids would play with these things , like , " aaah , " you know , they would say , " daddy , aaah , aaah . " you know , like that .
we 'd go to a computer store , and they 'd do the same thing .
and they 'd say , " daddy , why doesn 't the computer respond to sound ? " and it was really at the time i was wondering why doesn 't the computer respond to sound ?
so i made this as a kind of an experiment at the time .
and then i spent a lot of time in the space of interactive graphics and things like this , and i stopped doing it because my students at mit got so much better than myself , so i had to hang up my mouse .
but in ' 96 , i made my last piece . it was in black and white , monochrome , fully monochrome , all in integer mathematics .
it 's called " tap , type , write . "
it 's paying a tribute to the wonderful typewriter that my mother used to type on all the time as a legal secretary .
it has 10 variations .
there 's a shift .
ten variations . this is , like , spin the letter around .
this is , like , a ring of letters .
this is 20 years old , so it 's kind of a --
let 's see , this is -
i love the french film " the red balloon . "
great movie , right ? i love that movie . so ,
this is sort of like a play on that .
it 's peaceful , like that .
i 'll show this last one . this is about balance , you know .
it 's kind of stressful typing out , so if you type on this keyboard , you can , like , balance it out .
if you hit g , life 's okay , so i always say , " hit g , and it 's going to be all right .
thank you .
thank you .
so that was 20 years ago , and i was always on the periphery of art .
by being president of risd i 've gone deep into art , and art is a wonderful thing , fine art , pure art .
you know , when people say , " i don 't get art . i don 't get it at all . " that means art is working , you know ?
it 's like , art is supposed to be enigmatic , so when you say , like , " i don 't get it , " like , oh , that 's great .
art does that , because art is about asking questions , questions that may not be answerable .
at risd , we have this amazing facility called the edna lawrence nature lab . it has 80,000 samples of animal , bone , mineral , plants .
you know , in rhode island , if an animal gets hit on the road , they call us up and we pick it up and stuff it .
and why do we have this facility ?
because at risd , you have to look at the actual animal , the object , to understand its volume , to perceive it .
at risd , you 're not allowed to draw from an image .
and many people ask me , john , couldn 't you just
digitize all this ? make it all digital ? wouldn 't it be better ?
and i often say , well , there 's something good to how things
used to be done . there 's something very different about it , something we should figure out what is good about how we did it , even in this new era .
and i have a good friend , he 's a new media artist named tota hasegawa . he 's based in london , no , actually it 's in tokyo , but when he was based in london , he had a game
with his wife . he would go to antique shops , and the game was as such : when we look at an antique we want , we 'll ask the shopkeeper for the story behind the antique , and if it 's a good story , we 'll buy it .
so they 'd go to an antique shop , and they 'd look at this cup , and they 'd say , " tell us about this cup . "
and the shopkeeper would say , " it 's old . "
" tell us more . " " oh , it 's really old . "
and he saw , over and over , the antique 's value was all about it being old .
and as a new media artist , he reflected , and said , you know , i 've spent my whole career making new media art .
people say , " wow , your art , what is it ? " it 's new media .
and he realized , it isn 't about old or new .
it 's about something in between .
it isn 't about " old , " the dirt , " new , " the cloud . it 's about what is good .
a combination of the cloud and the dirt is where the action is at .
you see it in all interesting art today , in all interesting businesses today . how we combine
those two together to make good is very interesting .
so art makes questions , and leadership is something that is asking a lot of questions .
we aren 't functioning so easily anymore .
we aren 't a simple authoritarian regime anymore .
as an example of authoritarianism , i was in russia one time traveling in st. petersburg , at a national monument , and i saw this sign that says , " do not walk on the grass , " and i thought , oh , i mean , i speak english , and you 're trying to single me out . that 's not fair .
but i found a sign for russian-speaking people , and it was the best sign ever to say no .
it was like , " no swimming , no hiking , no anything . "
my favorite ones are " no plants . " why would you bring a plant to a national monument ? i 'm not sure . and also " no love . "
so that is authoritarianism .
and what is that , structurally ?
it 's a hierarchy . we all know that a hierarchy is how we run many systems today , but as we know , it 's been disrupted .
it is now a network instead of a perfect tree .
it 's a heterarchy instead of a hierarchy . and that 's kind of awkward .
and so today , leaders are faced with how to lead differently , i believe .
this is work i did with my colleague becky bermont on creative leadership . what can we learn from artists and designers for how to lead ?
because in many senses , a regular leader loves to avoid mistakes .
someone who 's creative actually loves to learn from mistakes .
a traditional leader is always wanting to be right , whereas a creative leader hopes to be right .
and this frame is important today , in this complex , ambiguous space , and artists and designers have a lot to teach us , i believe .
and i had a show in london recently where my friends invited me to come to london for four days to sit in a sandbox , and i said great .
and so i sat in a sandbox for four days straight , six hours every day , six-minute appointments with anyone in london , and that was really bad .
but i would listen to people , hear their issues , draw in the sand , try to figure things out , and it was kind of hard to figure out what i was doing .
you know ? it 's all these one-on-one meetings for like four days .
and it felt kind of like being president , actually .
i was like , " oh , this my job . president . i do a lot of meetings , you know ? "
and by the end of the experience , i realized why i was doing this .
it 's because leaders , what we do is we connect improbable connections and hope something will happen , and in that room i found so many connections between people across all of london , and so leadership , connecting people , is the great question today .
whether you 're in the hierarchy or the heterarchy , it 's a wonderful design challenge .
and one thing i 've been doing is doing some research on systems that can combine technology and leadership with an art and design perspective .
let me show you something i haven 't shown anywhere , actually .
so what this is , is a kind of a sketch , an application sketch i wrote in python . you know how there 's photoshop ?
this is called powershop , and the way it works is imagine an organization . you know , the ceo isn 't ever
at the top . the ceo 's at the center of the organization .
there may be different subdivisions in the organization , and you might want to look into different areas . for instance ,
green are areas doing well , red are areas doing poorly .
you know , how do you , as the leader , scan , connect , make things happen ? so for instance , you might open up a distribution here and find the different subdivisions in there , and know that you know someone in eco , over here , and these people here are in eco , the people you might engage with as ceo , people going across the hierarchy .
and part of the challenge of the ceo is to find connections across areas , and so you might look in r & d , and here you see one person who crosses the two areas of interest , and it 's a person important to engage .
so you might want to , for instance , get a heads-up display on how you 're interacting with them .
how many coffees do you have ?
how often are you calling them , emailing them ?
what is the tenor of their email ? how is it working out ?
leaders might be able to use these systems to better regulate how they work inside the heterarchy .
you can also imagine using technology like from luminoso , the guys from cambridge who were looking at deep
text analysis . what is the tenor of your communications ?
so these kind of systems , i believe , are important .
they 're targeted social media systems around leaders .
and i believe that this kind of perspective will only begin to grow as more leaders enter the space of art and design , because art and design lets you think like this , find different systems like this ,
and i 've just begun thinking like this , so i 'm glad to share that with you .
so in closing , i want to thank all of you
for your attention . thanks very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / sergey _ brin _ and _ larry _ page _ on _ google.html
google co-founders larry page and sergey brin offer a peek inside the google machine , sharing tidbits about international search patterns , the philanthropic google foundation , and the company 's dedication to innovation and employee happiness .
google , business , collaboration , culture , design , technology , web
118
sergey brin and larry page on google
sergey brin : i want to discuss a question
i know that 's been pressing on many of your minds .
we spoke to you last several years ago .
and before i get started today , since many of you are wondering , i just wanted to get it out of the way .
the answer is boxers .
now i hope all of you feel better .
do you know what this might be ? does anyone know what that is ?
audience : yes .
sb : what is it ?
audience : it 's people logging on to google around the world .
sb : wow , ok . i didn 't really realize what it was when i first saw it .
but this is what helped me see it .
this is what we run at the office , that actually runs real time .
here it 's slightly logged .
but here you can see around the world how people are using google .
and every one of those rising dots represents probably about 20 , 30 searches , or something like that .
and they 're labeled by color right now , by language .
so you can see : here we are in the u.s. , and they 're all coming up red .
there we are in monterey -- hopefully i can get it right .
you can see that japan is busy at night , right there .
we have tokyo coming in in japanese .
there 's a lot of activity in china .
there 's a lot of activity in india .
there 's some in the middle east , the little pockets .
and europe , which is right now in the middle of the day , is going really strong with a whole wide variety of languages .
now you can also see , if i turn this around here -- hopefully i won 't shake the world too much .
but you can also see , there are places where there 's not so much .
australia , because there just aren 't very many people there .
and this is something that we should really work on , which is africa , which is just a few trickles , basically in south africa and a few other urban cities .
but basically , what we 've noticed is these queries , which come in at thousands per second , are available everywhere there is power .
and pretty much everywhere there is power , there is the internet .
and even in antarctica -- well , at least this time of year -- we from time to time will see a query rising up .
and if we had it plotted correctly , i think the international space station would have it , too .
so this is some of the challenge that we have here , is you can see that it 's actually kind of hard to get the --
there we go .
this is how we have to move the bits around to actually get the people the answers to their questions .
you can see that there 's a lot of data running around .
it has to go all over the world : through fibers , through satellites , through all kinds of connections .
and it 's pretty tricky for us to maintain the latencies as low as we try to . hopefully your experience is good .
but you can see also , once again -- so some places are much more wired than others , and you can see all the bandwidth across the u.s. , going up over to asia , europe in the other direction , and so forth .
now what i would like to do is just to show you what one second of this activity would look like .
and if we can switch to slides -- all right , here we go .
so this is slowed down .
this is what one second looks like .
and this is what we spend a lot of our time doing , with this kind of traffic load .
now , each one of those queries has an interesting life and tale of its own .
i mean , it could be somebody 's health , it could be somebody 's career , something important to them .
and it could potentially be something as important as tomato sauce , or in this case , ketchup .
so this is a query that we had -- i guess it 's a popular band that was more popular in some parts of the world than others .
you can see that it got started right here .
in the u.s. and spain , it was popular at the same time .
but it didn 't have quite the same pickup in the u.s. as it did in spain .
and then from spain , it went to italy , and then germany got excited , and maybe right now the u.k. is enjoying it .
and so i guess the u.s. finally , finally started to like it , too .
and i just wanted to play it for you .
anyway , you can all enjoy it for yourselves -- hopefully that search will work .
as a part of -- is to have more searches .
and what that means is we want to have more people who are healthy and educated .
more animals , if they start doing searches as well .
but partly , we want to make the world a better place , and so one thing that we 're embarking upon is the google foundation , and we 're in the process of setting that up .
we also have a program already called google grants that now serves over 150 different charities around the world , and these are some of the charities that are on there .
and it 's something i 'm very excited to be a part of .
in fact , many of the organizations that are here -- the acumen fund , i think approtec we have running , i 'm not sure if that one 's up yet -- and many of the people who have presented here are running through google grants .
they run google ads , and we just give them the ad credit so they can let organizations know .
one of the earlier results that we got -- we have a singaporean businessman who is now sponsoring a village of 25 vietnamese girls for their education , and that was one of the earliest results . and as i said , now there have been many , many stories that have come in ,
because we do have hundreds of charities in there , and the google foundation will be an even broader endeavor .
now does anybody know who this is ?
a-ha !
audience : orkut . sb : yes ! somebody got it .
this is orkut . is anybody here on orkut ?
do we have any ?
okay , not very many people know about it .
i 'll explain it in a second .
this is one of our engineers .
we find that they work better when they 're submerged and covered with leaves .
that 's how we churn those products out .
orkut had a vision to create a social network .
i know all of you are thinking , " yet another social network . "
but it was a dream of his , and we , basically , when people really want to do something , well , we generally let them .
so this is what he built .
we just released it in a test phase last month , and it 's been taking off .
this is our vp of engineering .
you can see the red hair , and i don 't know if you can see the nose ring there .
and these are all of his friends .
so this is how -- we just deployed it -- we just decided that people would send each other invitations to get into the service , and so we just had the people in our company initially send them out .
and now we 've grown to over 100,000 members . and they spread , actually , very quickly , even outside the u.s .
you can see , even though the u.s. is still the majority here -- though , by the way , search-wise , it 's only about 30 percent of our traffic --
but it 's already going to japan , and the u.k. , and europe , and all the rest of the countries .
so it 's a fun little project .
there are a variety of demographics . i won 't bore you with these .
but it 's just the kind of thing that we just try out for fun and see where it goes .
and --
well , i 'll leave you in suspense .
larry , you can explain this one .
larry page : thank you , sergey .
so one of the things -- both sergey and i went to a montessori school , and i think , for some reason , this has been incorporated in google .
and sergey mentioned orkut , which is something that , you know , orkut wanted to do in his time ,
and we call this -- at google , we 've embodied this as " the 20 percent time , "
and the idea is , for 20 percent of your time , if you 're working at google , you can do what you think is the best thing to do .
and many , many things at google have come out of that ,
such as orkut and also google news .
and i think many other things in the world also have come out of this .
mendel , who was supposed to be teaching high-school students , actually , you know , discovered the laws of genetics -- as a hobby , basically .
so many , many useful things come out of this .
and news , which i just mentioned , was started by a researcher . and he just -- he -- after 9 / 11 , he got really interested in the news .
and he said , " why don 't i look at the news better ? "
and so he started clustering it by category , and then he started using it , and then his friends started using it .
and then , besides just looking cute on a baby 's bottom , we made it a googlette , which is basically a small project at google .
so it 'd be like three people , or something like that , and they would try to make a product .
and we wouldn 't really be sure if it 's going to work or not .
and in news ' case , you know , they had a couple of people working on it for a while , and then more and more people started using it , and then we put it out on the internet , and more and more people started using it .
and now it 's a real , full-blown project with more people on it .
and this is how we keep our innovation running .
i think usually , as companies get bigger , they find it really hard to have small , innovative projects .
and we had this problem , too , for a while , and we said , " oh , we really need a new concept . "
you know , the googlettes -- that 's a small project that we 're not quite sure if it 's going to work or not ,
but we hope it will , and if we do enough of them , some of them will really work and turn out , such as news .
but then we had a problem because then we had over 100 projects .
and i don 't know about all of you , but i have trouble keeping 100 things in my head at once .
and we found that if we just wrote all of them down and ordered them -- and these are kind of made up .
don 't really pay attention to them .
for example , the " buy iceland " was from a media article .
we would never do such a crazy thing , but --
in any case , we found if we just basically wrote them all down and ordered them , that most people would actually agree what the ordering should be .
and this was kind of a surprise to me , but we found that as long as you keep the 100 things in your head , which you did by writing them down , that you could do a pretty good job deciding what to do and where to put your resources .
and so that 's basically what we 've done since we instituted that a few years ago , and i think it has really allowed us to be innovative and still stay reasonably well-organized .
the other thing we discovered is that people like to work on things that are important , and so naturally , people sort of migrate to the things that are high priorities .
i just wanted to highlight a couple of things that are new , or you might not know about .
and the top thing , actually , is the deskbar .
so this is a new -- how many of you use the google toolbar ?
raise your hands .
how many of you use the deskbar ?
all right , see ? you guys should try it out .
but if you go to our site and search for " deskbar , " you 'll get this .
and the idea is , instead of a toolbar , it 's just present all the time on your screen on the bottom , and you can do searches really easily .
and it 's sort of like a better version of the toolbar .
thank you , sergey .
this is another example of a project that somebody at google was really passionate about , and they just , they got going , and it 's really , really a great product , and really taking off .
google answers is something we started , which is really cool , which lets you -- for five to 100 dollars , you can type a question in , and then there 's a pool of researchers that go out and research it for you , and it 's guaranteed and all that , and you can get actually very good answers to things without spending all that time yourself .
froogle lets you search shopping information , and blogger lets you publish things .
but all of these -- well , these were all sort of innovative things that we did that --
you know , we try many , many different things in our company .
we also like to innovate in our physical space , and we noticed in meetings , you know , you have to wait a long time for projectors to turn on and off ,
and they 're noisy , so people shut them off .
and we didn 't like that , so we actually , in maybe a couple of weeks , we built these little enclosures that enclosed the projectors , and so we can leave them on all the time and they 're completely silent .
and as a result , we were able to build some software that also lets us manage a meeting ,
so when you walk into a meeting room now , it lists all the meetings that are happening , you can very easily take notes , and they just get emailed automatically to all the people that were present in the meeting .
and as we become more of a global company , we find these things really affect us --
you know , can we work effectively with people who aren 't in the room ?
and things like that . and simple things like this can really make a big difference .
we also have a lot of engineers in those meetings , and they don 't always do their laundry as much as they should .
and so we found it was pretty helpful to have laundry machines , for our younger employees especially , and ...
we also allow dogs and things like that ,
and we 've had , i think , a really fun culture at our company , which helps people work and enjoy what they 're doing .
this is actually our " cult picture . "
i just wanted to show quickly .
we had this on our website for a while , but we found that after we put it on our website , we didn 't get any job applications anymore .
but anyway , every year we 've taken the whole company on a ski trip .
a lot of work happens in companies from people knowing each other , and informally .
and i think we 've done a good job encouraging that .
it makes it a really fun place to work .
along with our logos , too , which i think really embody our culture when we change things .
in the early days , we were actually advised we should never change our logo because we should establish our brand , you know , because , you know , you 'd never want to change your logo .
you want it to be consistent .
and we said , " well , that doesn 't sound so much fun .
why don 't we try changing it every day ? "
one of the things that really excites me about what we 're doing now is we have this thing called adsense ,
and this is a little bit foreshadowing -- this is from before dean dropped out .
but the idea is , like , on a newspaper , for example , we show you relevant ads .
and this is hard to read , but this says " battle for new hampshire : howard dean for president " -- articles on howard dean .
and these ads are generated automatically -- like in this case , on the washington post -- from the content on the site .
and so we use our over 150,000 advertisers and millions of advertisements , so we pick the one that 's most relevant to what you 're actually looking at , much as we do on search .
so the idea is we can make advertising useful , not just annoying , right ?
and the nice thing about this , we have a self-serve program , and many thousands of websites have signed up , and this let 's them really make money . and i --
you know , there 's a number of people i met -- i met this guy who runs a conservation site at a party , and he said , " you know , i wasn 't making any money .
i just put this thing on my site and i 'm making 10,000 dollars a month .
i don 't have to do my other job now . "
and i think this is really important for us , because it makes the internet work better .
it makes content get better , it makes searching work better , when people can really make their livelihood from producing great content .
so this session is supposed to be about the future , so i 'd thought i 'd talk at least briefly about it .
and the idea behind this is to do the perfect job doing search , you really have to be smart .
because you can type , you know , any kind of thing into google , and you expect an answer back , right ?
but finding things is tricky , and so you really want intelligence .
and in fact , the ultimate search engine would be smart .
it would be artificial intelligence .
and so that 's something we work on ,
and we even have some people who are excited enough and crazy enough to work on it now , and that 's really their goal .
so we always hope that google will be smart , but we 're always surprised when other people think that it is .
and so i just wanted to give a funny example of this . this is a blog from iraq ,
and it 's not really what i 'm going to talk about , but i just wanted to show you an example .
maybe , sergey , you can highlight this .
so we decided -- actually , the highlight 's right there . oh , thank you .
so , " related searches , " right there . you can 't see it that well ,
but we decided we should put in this feature into our adsense ads , called " related searches . "
and so we 'd say , you know , " did you mean ' search for ' " -- what is this ,
in this case , " saddam hussein , " because this blog is about iraq -- and you know , in addition to the ads , and we thought this would be a great idea .
and so there is this blog of a young person who was kind of depressed , and he said , " you know , i 'm sleeping a lot . "
he was just kind of writing about his life .
and our algorithms -- not a person , of course , but our algorithms , our computers -- read his blog and decided that the related search was , " i am bored . "
and he read this , and he thought a person had decided that he was boring ,
and it was very unfortunate , and he said , " you know , what are these , you know , bastards at google doing ?
why don 't they like my blog ? "
and so then we read his blog , which was getting -- you know , sort of going from bad to worse , and we said the related search was , " retards . "
and then , you know , he got even more mad , and he wrote -- like , started swearing and so on .
and then we produced " you suck . "
and finally , it ended with " kiss my ass . "
and so basically , he thought he was dealing with something smart , and of course , you know , we just sort of wrote this program and we tried it out ,
and it didn 't quite work ,
and we don 't have this feature anymore .
so with that , maybe i can switch back to the world .
i wanted to end just by saying that there 's a couple things that really make me excited to be involved with google ,
and one of those is that we 're able to make money largely through advertising , and one of the benefits that i didn 't expect from that was that we 're able to serve everyone in the world without worrying about , you know , places that don 't have as much money .
so we don 't have to worry about our products being sold , for example , for less money in places that are poor , and then they get re-imported into the u.s. -- for example , with the drug industry .
and i think we 're really lucky to have that kind of business model because everyone in the world has access to our search , and i think that 's a tremendous , tremendous benefit .
the other thing i wanted to mention just briefly is that we have a tremendous ability and responsibility to provide people the right information ,
and we view ourselves like a newspaper or a magazine -- that we should provide very objective information .
and so in our search results , we never accept payment for our search results .
we accept payment for advertising , and we mark it as such .
and that 's unlike many of our competitors .
and i think decisions we 're able to make like that have a tremendous impact on the world , and it makes me really proud to be involved with google .
so thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / seth _ priebatsch _ the _ game _ layer _ on _ top _ of _ the _ world.html
by now , we 're used to letting facebook and twitter capture our social lives on the web -- building a " social layer " on top of the real world . at tedxboston , seth priebatsch looks at the next layer in progress : the " game layer , " a pervasive net of behavior-steering game dynamics that will reshape education and commerce .
business , entertainment , entrepreneur , gaming , money , psychology
936
seth priebatsch : the game layer on top of the world
my name 's seth priebatsch . i 'm the chief ninja of scvngr .
i am a proud princeton dropout .
also proud to have relocated here to boston , where i actually grew up .
yeah , boston .
easy wins . i should just go and name the counties that we 've got around here .
so , i 'm also fairly determined to try and build a game layer on top of the world .
and this is sort of a new concept , and it 's really important .
because while the last decade was the decade of social and the decade of where the framework in which we connect with other people was built , this next decade will be the decade where the game framework is built , where the motivations that we use to actually influence behavior , and the framework in which that is constructed , is decided upon , and that 's really important .
and so i say that i want to build a game layer on top of the world , but that 's not quite true because it 's already under construction ; it 's already happening .
and it looks like this right now .
it looks like the web did back in 1997 , right ?
it 's not very good . it 's cluttered .
it 's filled with lots of different things that , in short , aren 't that fun .
there are credit card schemes and airline mile programs and coupon cards and all these loyalty schemes that actually do use game dynamics and actually are building the game layer : they just suck .
they 're not very well designed , right ?
so , that 's unfortunate .
but luckily , as my favorite action hero , bob the builder , says , " we can do better . we can build this better . " and the tools , the resources that we use to build a game layer are game dynamics themselves .
and so , sort of , the crux of this presentation is going to go through four really important game dynamics , really interesting things , that , if you use consciously , you can use to influence behavior , both for good , for bad , for in-between .
hopefully for good .
but this is sort of the important stages in which that framework will get built , and so we want to all be thinking about it consciously now .
just before we jump into that , there 's sort of a question of : why is this important ?
i 'm sort of making this claim that there is a game layer on top of the world , and that it 's very important that we build it properly .
the reason that it 's so important is that , the last decade , what we 've seen has been building the social layer , has been this framework for connections , and construction on that layer is over , it 's finished .
there 's still a lot to explore .
there 's still a lot of people who are trying to figure out social and how do we leverage this and how do we use this , but the framework itself is done , and it 's called facebook .
and that 's okay , right ? a lot of people are very happy with facebook .
i like it quite a lot .
they 've created this thing called the open graph , and they own all of our connections .
they own half a billion people .
and so when you want to build on the social layer , the framework has been decided ; it is the open graph api .
and if you 're happy with that , fantastic .
if you 're not , too bad . there 's nothing you can do .
but this next decade -- and that 's a real thing .
i mean , we want to build frameworks in a way that makes it acceptable and makes it , you know , productive down the road .
so , the social layer is all about these connections .
the game layer is all about influence .
it 's not about adding a social fabric to the web and connecting you to other people everywhere you are and everywhere you go .
it 's actually about using dynamics , using forces , to influence the behavior of where you are , what you do there , how you do it .
that 's really , really powerful , and it 's going to be more important than the social layer .
it 's going to affect our lives more deeply and perhaps more invisibly .
and so it 's incredibly critical that at this moment , while it 's just getting constructed , while the frameworks like facebook , like the open graph , are being created for the game layer equivalent , that we think about it very consciously , and that we do it in a way that is open , that is available , and that can be leveraged for good .
and so that 's what i want to talk about for game dynamics , because construction has just begun , and the more consciously we can think about this , the better we 'll be able to use it for anything that we want .
so like i said , the way that you go through and build on the game layer is not with glass and steel and cement .
and the resources that we use are not this two-dimensional swath of land that we have .
the resources are mindshare and the tools , the raw materials are these game dynamics .
so with that , you know , a couple game dynamics to talk about .
four . back at scvngr , we like to joke that with seven game dynamics , you can get anyone to do anything .
and so today , i 'm going to show you four , because i hope to have a competitive advantage at the end of this , still .
so the first one , it 's a very simple game dynamic .
it 's called the appointment dynamic .
and this is a dynamic in which to succeed , players have to do something at a predefined time , generally at a predefined place .
and these dynamics are a little scary sometimes , because you think , you know , other people can be using forces that will manipulate how i interact : what i do , where i do it , when i do it .
this sort of loss of free will that occurs in games can be frightening , so with each dynamic , i 'm going to give three examples : one that shows how this is already being used in the real world , so you can sort of rationalize it a little bit ; one that shows it in what we consider a conventional game -- i think everything is a game , but this is sort of more of a what you would think is a game played on a board or on a computer screen , and then one how this can be used for good , so we can see that these forces can really be very powerful .
so the first one -- the most famous appointment dynamic in the world -- is something called happy hour .
so i just recently dropped out of princeton and actually ended up for the first time in a bar , and i saw these happy hour things all over the place , right .
and this is simply an appointment dynamic .
come here at a certain time , get your drinks half off .
to win , all you have to do is show up at the right place at the right time .
this game dynamic is so powerful that it doesn 't just influence our behavior , it 's influenced our entire culture .
that 's a really scary thought , that one game dynamic can change things so powerfully .
it also exists in more conventional game forms .
i 'm sure you 've all heard of farmville by now .
if you haven 't , i recommend playing it .
you won 't do anything else with the rest of your day .
farmville has more active users than twitter .
it 's incredibly powerful , and it has this dynamic where you have to return at a certain time to water your crops -- fake crops -- or they wilt .
and this is so powerful that , when they tweak their stats , when they say your crops wilt after eight hours , or after six hours , or after 24 hours , it changes the lifecycle of 70 million-some people during the day .
they will return like clockwork at different times .
so if they wanted the world to end , if they wanted productivity to stop , they could make this a 30-minute cycle , and no one could do anything else , right ?
that 's a little scary .
but this could also be used for good .
this is a local company called vitality , and they 've created a product to help people take their medicine on time .
that 's an appointment .
it 's something that people don 't do very well .
and they have these glowcaps , which , you know , flash and email you and do all sorts of cool things to remind you to take your medicine .
this is one that isn 't a game yet , but really should be .
you should get points for doing this on time .
you should lose points for not doing this on time .
they should consciously recognize that they 've built an appointment dynamic and leverage the games .
and then you can really achieve good in some interesting ways .
we 're going to jump onto the next one , maybe . yes .
influence and status .
so this is one of the most famous game dynamics .
it 's used all over the place .
it 's used in your wallets , right now .
we all want that credit card on the far left because it 's black .
and you see someone at cvs or -- not cvs -- at christian dior or something , and then ... i don 't know . i don 't have a black card ; i 've got a debit card .
so they whip it out . and you see men , they have that black card .
i want that because that means that they 're cooler than i am , and i need that .
and this is used in games as well .
" modern warfare , " one of the most successful selling games of all time .
i 'm only a level four , but i desperately want to be a level 10 , because they 've got that cool red badge thing , and that means that i am somehow better than everyone else .
and that 's very powerful to me . status is really good motivator .
it 's also used in more conventional settings and can be used more consciously in conventional settings .
school -- and remember , i made it through one year , so i think i 'm qualified to talk on school -- is a game , it 's just not a terribly well-designed game , right .
there are levels . there are c. there are b. there is a .
there are statuses . i mean , what is valedictorian , but a status ?
if we called valedictorian a " white knight paladin level 20 , " i think people would probably work a lot harder .
so school is a game , and there have been lots of experimentations on how we do this properly .
but let 's use it consciously . like why have games that you can lose ?
why go from an a to an f or a b to a c ?
that sucks . why not level-up ?
and at princeton , they 've actually experimented with this , where they have quizzes where you gain experience points , and you level up from b to an a .
and it 's very powerful .
it can be used in interesting ways .
the third one i want to talk about quickly is the progression dynamic , where you have to sort of make progress , you have to move through different steps in a very granular fashion .
this is used all over the place , including linkedin , where i am an un-whole individual .
i am only 85 percent complete on linkedin , and that bothers me .
and this is so deep-seated in our psyche that when we 're presented with a progress bar and presented with easy , granular steps to take to try and complete that progress bar , we will do it .
we will find a way to move that blue line
all the way to the right edge of the screen .
this is used in conventional games as well .
i mean , you see this is a paladin level 10 , and that 's a paladin level 20 , and if you were going to fight , you know , orcs on the fields of mordor against the raz al ghul , you 'd probably want to be the bigger one , right .
i would .
and so people work very hard to level-up .
" world of warcraft " is one of the most successful games of all time .
the average player spends something like six , six-and-a-half hours a day on it .
their most dedicated players , it 's like a full-time job .
it 's insane . and they have these systems where you can level-up .
and that 's a very powerful thing . progression is powerful .
it can also be used in very compelling ways for good .
one of the things that we work on at scvngr is how do you use games to drive traffic and drive business to local businesses , to sort of something that is very key to the economy .
and here we have a game that people play .
they go places , they do challenges , they earn points .
and we 've introduced a progression dynamic into it , where , by going to the same place over and over , by doing challenges , by engaging with the business , you move a green bar from the left edge of the screen to the right edge of the screen , and you eventually unlock rewards .
and this is powerful enough that we can see that it hooks people into these dynamics , pulls them back to the same local businesses , creates huge loyalty , creates engagement , and is able to drive meaningful revenue and fun and engagement to businesses .
these progression dynamics are powerful and can be used in the real world .
the final one i want to talk about -- and it 's a great one to end on -- is this concept of communal discovery , a dynamic in which everyone has to work together to achieve something .
and communal discovery is powerful because it leverages the network that is society to solve problems .
this is used in some sort of famous consumer web stories , like digg , which i 'm sure you 've all heard of .
digg is a communal dynamic to try to find and source the best news , the most interesting stories .
and they made this into a game , initially .
they had a leader board , where , if you recommended the best stories , you would get points .
and that really motivated people to find the best stories .
but it became so powerful that there was actually a cabal , a group of people , the top seven on the leader board , who would work together to make sure they maintained that position .
and they would recommend other people 's stories ,
and the game became more powerful than the goal .
and they actually had to end up shutting down the leader board because while it was effective , it was so powerful that it stopped sourcing the best stories and started having people work to maintain their leadership .
so we have to use this one carefully .
it 's also used in things like mcdonald 's monopoly , where the game is not the monopoly game you 're playing , but the sort of cottage industries that form to try and find boardwalk , right .
and now they 're just looking for a little sticker that says " boardwalk . "
but it can also be used to find real things .
this is the darpa balloon challenge , where they hid a couple balloons all across the united states and said , " use networks .
try and find these balloons fastest , and the winner will get $ 40,000 . "
and the winner was actually a group out of mit , where they created sort of a pyramid scheme , a network , where the first person to recommend the location of a balloon got $ 2,000 and anyone else to push that recommendation up also got a cut of it .
and in 12 hours , they were able to find all these balloons , all across the country , right .
really powerful dynamic .
and so , i 've got about 20 seconds left , so if i 'm going to leave you with anything , last decade was the decade of social .
this next decade is the decade of games .
we use game dynamics to build on it . we build with mindshare .
we can influence behavior .
it is very powerful . it is very exciting .
let 's all build it together , let 's do it well and have fun playing .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / tim _ brown _ urges _ designers _ to _ think _ big.html
tim brown says the design profession is preoccupied with creating nifty , fashionable objects -- even as pressing questions like clean water access show it has a bigger role to play . he calls for a shift to local , collaborative , participatory " design thinking . "
art , business , design , green , history , product design
646
tim brown urges designers to think big
i 'd like to talk a little bit this morning about what happens if we move from design to design thinking .
now this rather old photo up there is actually the first project i was ever hired to do ,
something like 25 years ago .
it 's a woodworking machine , or at least a piece of one ,
and my task was to make this thing a little bit more modern , a little bit easier to use .
i thought , at the time , i did a pretty good job .
unfortunately , not very long afterwards the company went out of business .
this is the second project that i did . it 's a fax machine .
i put an attractive shell around some new technology .
again , 18 months later , the product was obsolete .
and now , of course , the whole technology is obsolete .
now , i 'm a fairly slow learner ,
but eventually it occurred to me that maybe what passed for design wasn 't all that important -- making things more attractive , making them a bit easier to use , making them more marketable .
by focusing on a design , maybe just a single product , i was being incremental and not having much of an impact .
but i think this small view of design is a relatively recent phenomenon , and in fact really emerged in the latter half of the 20th century as design became a tool of consumerism .
so when we talk about design today , and particularly when we read about it in the popular press , we 're often talking about products like these .
amusing ? yes . desirable ? maybe .
important ? not so very .
but this wasn 't always the way .
and i 'd like to suggest that if we take a different view of design , and focus less on the object and more on design thinking as an approach , that we actually might see the result in a bigger impact .
now this gentleman , isambard kingdom brunel , designed many great things in his career in the 19th century , including the clifton suspension bridge in bristol and the thames tunnel at rotherhithe .
both great designs and actually very innovative too .
his greatest creation runs actually right through here in oxford .
it 's called the great western railway .
and as a kid i grew up very close to here ,
and one of my favorite things to do was to cycle along by the side of the railway waiting for the great big express trains to roar past .
you can see it represented here in j.m.w. turner 's painting , " rain , steam and speed . "
now , what brunel said that he wanted to achieve for his passengers was the experience of floating across the countryside .
now , this was back in the 19th century .
and to do that meant creating the flattest gradients that had ever yet been made , which meant building long viaducts across river valleys -- this is actually the viaduct across the thames at maidenhead -- and long tunnels such as the one at box , in wiltshire .
but he didn 't stop there . he didn 't stop with just trying to design the best railway journey .
he imagined an integrated transportation system in which it would be possible for a passenger to embark on a train in london and disembark from a ship in new york .
one journey from london to new york .
this is the s.s. great western that he built to take care of the second half of that journey .
now , brunel was working 100 years before the emergence of the design profession ,
but i think he was using design thinking to solve problems and to create world-changing innovations .
now , design thinking begins with what roger martin , the business school professor at the university of toronto , calls integrative thinking .
and that 's the ability to exploit opposing ideas and opposing constraints to create new solutions .
in the case of design , that means balancing desirability , what humans need , with technical feasibility , and economic viability .
with innovations like the great western , we can stretch that balance to the absolute limit .
so somehow , we went from this to this .
systems thinkers who were reinventing the world , to a priesthood of folks in black turtlenecks and designer glasses working on small things .
as our industrial society matured , so design became a profession and it focused on an ever smaller canvas until it came to stand for aesthetics , image and fashion .
now i 'm not trying to throw stones here .
i 'm a fully paid-up member of that priesthood , and somewhere in here i have my designer glasses .
there we go .
but i do think that perhaps design is getting big again .
and that 's happening through the application of design thinking to new kinds of problems -- to global warming , to education , healthcare , security , clean water , whatever .
and as we see this reemergence of design thinking and we see it beginning to tackle new kinds of problems , there are some basic ideas that i think we can observe that are useful .
and i 'd like to talk about some of those just for the next few minutes .
the first of those is that design is human-centered .
it may integrate technology and economics , but it starts with what humans need , or might need .
what makes life easier , more enjoyable ?
what makes technology useful and usable ?
but that is more than simply good ergonomics , putting the buttons in the right place .
it 's often about understanding culture and context before we even know where to start to have ideas .
so when a team was working on a new vision screening program in india , they wanted to understand what the aspirations and motivations were of these school children to understand how they might play a role in screening their parents .
conversion sound has developed a high quality , ultra-low-cost digital hearing aid for the developing world .
now , in the west we rely on highly trained technicians to fit these hearing aids .
in places like india , those technicians simply don 't exist .
so it took a team working in india with patients and community health workers to understand how a pda and an application on a pda might replace those technicians in a fitting and diagnostic service .
instead of starting with technology , the team started with people and culture .
so if human need is the place to start , then design thinking rapidly moves on to learning by making .
instead of thinking about what to build , building in order to think .
now , prototypes speed up the process of innovation ,
because it is only when we put our ideas out into the world that we really start to understand their strengths and weaknesses .
and the faster we do that , the faster our ideas evolve .
now , much has been said and written about the aravind eye institute in madurai , india .
they do an incredible job of serving very poor patients by taking the revenues from those who can afford to pay to cross-subsidize those who cannot .
now , they are very efficient , but they are also very innovative .
when i visited them a few years ago , what really impressed me was their willingness to prototype their ideas very early .
this is the manufacturing facility for one of their biggest cost breakthroughs .
they make their own intraocular lenses .
these are the lenses that replace those that are damaged by cataracts .
and i think it 's partly their prototyping mentality that really allowed them to achieve the breakthrough .
because they brought the cost down from $ 200 a pair , down to just $ 4 a pair .
partly they did this by instead of building a fancy new factory , they used the basement of one of their hospitals .
and instead of installing the large-scale machines used by western producers , they used low-cost cad / cam prototyping technology .
they are now the biggest manufacturer of these lenses in the developing world and have recently moved into a custom factory .
so if human need is the place to start , and prototyping , a vehicle for progress , then there are also some questions to ask about the destination .
instead of seeing its primary objective as consumption , design thinking is beginning to explore the potential of participation --
the shift from a passive relationship between consumer and producer to the active engagement of everyone in experiences that are meaningful , productive and profitable .
so i 'd like to take the idea that rory sutherland talked about , this notion that intangible things are worth perhaps more than physical things , and take that a little bit further and say that i think the design of participatory systems , in which many more forms of value beyond simply cash are both created and measured , is going to be the major theme , not only for design , but also for our economy as we go forward .
so william beveridge , when he wrote the first of his famous reports in 1942 , created what became britain 's welfare state in which he hoped that every citizen would be an active participant in their own social well-being .
by the time he wrote his third report , he confessed that he had failed and instead had created a society of welfare consumers .
hilary cottam , charlie leadbeater , and hugo manassei of participle have taken this idea of participation , and in their manifesto entitled beveridge 4.0 , they are suggesting a framework for reinventing the welfare state .
so in one of their projects called southwark circle , they worked with residents in southwark , south london and a small team of designers to develop a new membership organization to help the elderly with household tasks .
designs were refined and developed with 150 older people and their families before the service was launched earlier this year .
we can take this idea of participation perhaps to its logical conclusion and say that design may have its greatest impact when it 's taken out of the hands of designers and put into the hands of everyone .
nurses and practitioners at u.s. healthcare system kaiser permanente study the topic of improving the patient experience ,
and particularly focused on the way that they exchange knowledge and change shift .
through a program of observational research , brainstorming new solutions and rapid prototyping , they 've developed a completely new way to change shift .
she keeps staring out the window .
ss : this is -- let me show you something we didn 't think they would do .
video : for several days now , panbanisha has not been outside .
ss : i normally talk about language .
video : then panbanisha does something unexpected .
ss : but since i 'm advised not to do what i normally do , i haven 't told you that these apes have language .
it 's a geometric language .
video : she takes a piece of chalk and begins writing something on the floor .
what is she writing ?
ss : she 's also saying the name of that , with her voice .
video : now she comes up to dr. sue and starts writing again .
ss : these are her symbols on her keyboard .
they speak when she touches them .
video : panbanisha is communicating to dr. sue where she wants to go .
" a frame " represents a hut in the woods .
compare the chalk writing with the lexigram on the keyboard .
panbanisha began writing the lexigrams on the forest floor .
ss : very nice . beautiful , panbanisha .
ss : at first we didn 't really realize what she was doing , until we stood back and looked at it and rotated it .
video : this lexigram also refers to a place in the woods .
the curved line is very similar to the lexigram .
the next symbol panbanisha writes represents " collar . "
it indicates the collar that panbanisha must wear when she goes out .
ss : that 's an institutional requirement .
video : this symbol is not as clear as the others , but one can see panbanisha is trying to produce a curved line and several straight lines .
researchers began to record what panbanisha said , by writing lexigrams on the floor with chalk .
panbanisha watched .
soon she began to write as well .
the bonobo 's abilities have stunned scientists around the world .
how did they develop ?
ss : we found that the most important thing for permitting bonobos to acquire language is not to teach them .
it 's simply to use language around them , because the driving force in language acquisition is to understand what others , that are important to you , are saying to you .
once you have that capacity , the ability to produce language comes rather naturally and rather freely .
so we want to create an environment in which bonobos , like all of the individuals with whom they are interacting --
we want to create an environment in which they have fun , and an environment in which the others are meaningful individuals for them .
narrator : this environment brings out unexpected potential in kanzi and panbanisha .
panbanisha is enjoying playing her harmonica , until nyota , now one year old , steals it .
then he peers eagerly into his mother 's mouth .
is he looking for where the sound came from ?
dr. sue thinks it 's important to allow such curiosity to flourish .
this time panbanisha is playing the electric piano .
she wasn 't forced to learn the piano ; she saw a researcher play the instrument and took an interest .
researcher : go ahead . go ahead . i 'm listening .
do that real fast part that you did . yeah , that part .
narrator : kanzi plays the xylophone ; using both hands he enthusiastically accompanies dr. sue 's singing .
kanzi and panbanisha are stimulated by this fun-filled environment , which promotes the emergence of these cultural capabilities .
researcher : ok , now get the monsters . get them .
take the cherries too .
now watch out , stay away from them now .
now you can chase them again . time to chase them .
now you have to stay away . get away .
run away . run .
now we can chase them again . go get them .
oh no !
good kanzi . very good . thank you so much .
narrator : none of us , bonobo or human , can possibly even imagine ?
ss : so we have a bi-species environment , we call it a " panhomoculture . "
we 're learning how to become like them .
we 're learning how to communicate with them , in really high-pitched tones .
we 're learning that they probably have a language in the wild .
and they 're learning to become like us .
because we believe that it 's not biology ; it 's culture .
so we 're sharing tools and technology and language with another species .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / tim _ berners _ lee _ the _ year _ open _ data _ went _ worldwide.html
at ted2009 , tim berners-lee called for " raw data now " -- for governments , scientists and institutions to make their data openly available on the web . at ted university in 2010 , he shows a few of the interesting results when the data gets linked up .
internet , computers , statistics , visualizations , web
788
tim berners-lee : the year open data went worldwide
last year here at ted i asked you to give me your data , to put your data on the web , on the basis that if people put data onto the web -- government data , scientific data , community data , whatever it is -- it will be used by other people to do wonderful things , in ways that they never could have imagined .
so , today i 'm back just to show you a few things , to show you , in fact , there is an open data movement afoot , now , around the world .
the cry of " raw data now ! " which i made people make in the auditorium , was heard around the world .
so , let 's roll the video .
a classic story , the first one which lots of people picked up , was when in march -- on march 10th in fact , soon after ted -- paul clarke , in the u.k. government , blogged , " oh , i 've just got some raw data . here it is , it 's about bicycle accidents . "
two days it took the times online to make a map , a mashable map -- we call these things mash-ups -- a mashed-up user interface that allows you to go in there and have a look and find out whether your bicycle route to work was affected .
here 's more data , traffic survey data , again , put out by the u.k. government , and because they put it up using the linked data standards , then a user could just make a map , just by clicking .
does this data affect things ? well , let 's get back to 2008 .
look at zanesville , ohio .
here 's a map a lawyer made . he put on it the water plant , and which houses are there , which houses have been connected to the water .
and he got , from other data sources , information to show which houses are occupied by white people .
well , there was too much of a correlation , he felt , between which houses were occupied by white people and which houses had water , and the judge was not impressed either .
the judge was not impressed to the tune of 10.9 million dollars .
that 's the power of taking one piece of data , another piece of data , putting it together , and showing the result .
let 's look at some data from the u.k. now .
this is u.k. government data , a completely independent site , where does my money go . it allows anybody to go there and burrow down .
you can burrow down by a particular type of spending , or you can go through all the different regions and compare them .
so , that 's happening in the u.k. with u.k. government data .
yes , certainly you can do it over here .
here 's a site which allows you to look at recovery spending in california .
take an arbitrary example , long beach , california , you can go and have a look at what recovery money they 've been spending on different things such as energy .
in fact , this is the graph of the number of data sets in the repositories of data.gov , and data.gov.uk .
and i 'm delighted to see a great competition between the u.k. in blue , and the u.s. in red .
how can you use this stuff ?
well , for example , if you have lots of data about places you can take , from a postcode -- which is like a zip plus four -- for a specific group of houses , you can make paper , print off a paper which has got very , very specific things about the bus stops , the things specifically near you .
on a larger scale , this is a mash-up of the data which was released about the afghan elections .
it allows you to set your own criteria for what sort of things you want to look at .
the red circles are polling stations , selected by your criteria .
and then you can select also other things on the map to see what other factors , like the threat level .
so , that was government data .
i also talked about community-generated data -- in fact i edited some . this is the wiki map , this is the open street map . " terrace theater " i actually put on the map because it wasn 't on the map before ted last year .
i was not the only person editing the open street map . each flash on this visualization -- put together by ito world -- shows an edit in 2009 made to the open street map .
let 's now spin the world during the same year .
every flash is an edit . somebody somewhere looking at the open street map , and realizing it could be better .
you can see europe is ablaze with updates .
some places , perhaps not as much as they should be .
here focusing in on haiti .
the map of port au-prince at the end of 2009 was not all it could be , not as good as the map of california .
fortunately , just after the earthquake , geoeye , a commercial company , released satellite imagery with a license , which allowed the open-source community to use it .
this is january , in time lapse , of people editing ... that 's the earthquake .
after the earthquake , immediately , people all over the world , mappers who wanted to help , and could , looked at that imagery , built the map , quickly building it up .
we 're focusing now on port-au-prince .
the light blue is refugee camps these volunteers had spotted from the [ satellite images ] .
so , now we have , immediately , a real-time map showing where there are refugee camps -- rapidly became the best map to use if you 're doing relief work in port-au-prince .
witness the fact that it 's here on this garmin device being used by rescue team in haiti .
there 's the map showing , on the left-hand side , that hospital -- actually that 's a hospital ship .
this is a real-time map that shows blocked roads , damaged buildings , refugee camps --
it shows things that are needed [ for rescue and relief work ] .
so , if you 've been involved in that at all , i just wanted to say : whatever you 've been doing , whether you 've just been chanting , " raw data now ! " or you 've been putting government or scientific data online , i just wanted to take this opportunity to say : thank you very much , and we have only just started !
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / david _ hoffman _ shares _ his _ sputnik _ mania.html
filmmaker david hoffman shares footage from his feature-length documentary sputnik mania , which shows how the soviet union 's launch of sputnik in 1957 led to both the space race and the arms race -- and jump-started science and math education around the world .
education , history , math , politics , science , short talk , space , technology , war
239
david hoffman shares his sputnik mania
fifty years ago in the old soviet union , a team of engineers was secretly moving a large object through a desolate countryside .
with it , they were hoping to capture the minds of people everywhere by being the first to conquer outer space .
the rocket was huge .
and packed in its nose was a silver ball with two radios inside .
on october 4 , 1957 , they launched their rocket .
one of the russian scientists wrote at the time : " we are about to create a new planet that we will call sputnik .
in the olden days , explorers like vasco da gama and columbus had the good fortune to open up the terrestrial globe .
now we have the good fortune to open up space .
and it is for those in the future to envy us our joy . "
you 're watching snippets from " sputnik , " my fifth documentary feature , which is just about completed .
it tells the story of sputnik , and the story of what happened to america as a result .
for days after the launch , sputnik was a wonderful curiosity .
a man-made moon visible by ordinary citizens , it inspired awe and pride that humans had finally launched an object into space .
but just three days later , on a day they called red monday , the media and the politicians told us , and we believed , that sputnik was proof that our enemy had beaten us in science and technology , and that they could now attack us with hydrogen bombs , using their sputnik rocket as an ibm missile .
all hell broke loose .
sputnik quickly became one of the three great shocks to hit america -- historians say the equal of pearl harbor or 9 / 11 .
it provoked the missile gap .
it exploded an arms race .
it began the space race .
within a year , congress funded huge weapons increases , and we went from 1,200 nuclear weapons to 20,000 .
and the reactions to sputnik went far beyond weapons increases .
for example , some here will remember this day , june 1958 , the national civil defense drill , where tens of millions of people in 78 cities went underground .
or the gallup poll that showed that seven in 10 americans
believed that a nuclear war would happen , and that at least 50 percent of our population was going to be killed .
but sputnik provoked wonderful changes as well .
for example , some in this room went to school on scholarship because of sputnik .
support for engineering , math and science -- education in general -- boomed .
and vint cerf points out that sputnik led directly to arpa , and the internet , and , of course , nasa .
my feature documentary shows how a free society can be stampeded by those who know how to use media .
but it also shows how we can turn what appears at first to be a bad situation , into something that was overall very good for america .
" sputnik " will soon be released .
in closing , i would like to take a moment to thank one of my investors : longtime tedster , jay walker .
and i 'd like to thank you all .
. thank you , chris .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / steven _ strogatz _ on _ sync.html
mathematician steven strogatz shows how flocks of creatures manage to synchronize and act as a unit -- when no one 's giving orders . the powerful tendency extends into the realm of objects , too .
biology , biomechanics , math , science , society , technology
422
steven strogatz on sync
i was trying to think , how is sync connected to happiness , and it occurred to me that for some reason we take pleasure in synchronizing .
we like to dance together , we like singing together .
and so , if you 'll put up with this , i would like to enlist your help with a first experiment today . the experiment is -- and i notice , by the way , that when you applauded , that you did it in a typical north american way , that is , you were raucous and incoherent .
you were not organized . it didn 't even occur to you to clap in unison .
do you think you could do it ? i would like to see if this audience would -- no , you haven 't practiced , as far as i know -- can you get it together to clap in sync ?
whoa ! now , that 's what we call emergent behavior .
so i didn 't expect that , but -- i mean , i expected you could synchronize .
it didn 't occur to me you 'd increase your frequency .
it 's interesting .
so what do we make of that ? first of all , we know that you 're all brilliant .
this is a room full of intelligent people , highly sensitive .
some trained musicians out there .
is that what enabled you to synchronize ?
so to put the question a little more seriously , let 's ask ourselves what are the minimum requirements for what you just did , for spontaneous synchronization .
do you need , for instance , to be as smart as you are ?
do you even need a brain at all just to synchronize ?
do you need to be alive ? i mean , that 's a spooky thought , right ?
inanimate objects that might spontaneously synchronize themselves .
it 's real . in fact , i 'll try to explain today that sync is maybe one of , if not one of the most , perhaps the most pervasive drive in all of nature .
it extends from the subatomic scale to the farthest reaches of the cosmos .
it 's a deep tendency toward order in nature that opposes what we 've all been taught about entropy .
i mean , i 'm not saying the law of entropy is wrong -- it 's not .
but there is a countervailing force in the universe -- the tendency towards spontaneous order . and so that 's our theme .
now , to get into that , let me begin with what might have occurred to you immediately when you hear that we 're talking about synchrony in nature , which is the glorious example of birds that flock together , or fish swimming in organized schools .
so these are not particularly intelligent creatures , and yet , as we 'll see , they exhibit beautiful ballets .
this is from a bbc show called " predators , " and what we 're looking at here are examples of synchrony that have to do with defense .
when you 're small and vulnerable , like these starlings , or like the fish , it helps to swarm to avoid predators , to confuse predators .
let me be quiet for a second because this is so gorgeous .
for a long time , biologists were puzzled by this behavior , wondering how it could be possible .
we 're so used to choreography giving rise to synchrony .
these creatures are not choreographed .
they 're choreographing themselves .
and only today is science starting to figure out how it works .
i 'll show you a computer model made by iain couzin , a researcher at oxford , that shows how swarms work .
there are just three simple rules .
first , all the individuals are only aware of their nearest neighbors .
second , all the individuals have a tendency to line up .
and third , they 're all attracted to each other , but they try to keep a small distance apart .
and when you build those three rules in , automatically you start to see swarms that look very much like fish schools or bird flocks .
now , fish like to stay close together , about a body length apart .
birds try to stay about three or four body lengths apart .
but except for that difference , the rules are the same for both .
now , all this changes when a predator enters the scene .
there 's a fourth rule : when a predator 's coming , get out of the way .
here on the model you see the predator attacking .
the prey move out in random directions , and then the rule of attraction brings them back together again , so there 's this constant splitting and reforming .
and you see that in nature .
keep in mind that , although it looks as if each individual is acting to cooperate , what 's really going on is a kind of selfish darwinian behavior .
each is scattering away at random to try to save its scales or feathers .
that is , out of the desire to save itself , each creature is following these rules , and that leads to something that 's safe for all of them .
even though it looks like they 're thinking as a group , they 're not .
you might wonder what exactly is the advantage to being in a swarm , so you can think of several .
as i say , if you 're in a swarm , your odds of being the unlucky one are reduced as compared to a small group .
there are many eyes to spot danger .
and you 'll see in the example with the starlings , with the birds , when this peregrine hawk is about to attack them , that actually waves of panic can propagate , sending messages over great distances .
you 'll see -- let 's see , it 's coming up possibly at the very end -- maybe not .
information can be sent over half a kilometer away in a very short time through this mechanism .
yes , it 's happening here .
see if you can see those waves propagating through the swarm .
it 's beautiful . the birds are , we sort of understand , we think , from that computer model , what 's going on .
as i say , it 's just those three simple rules , plus the one about watch out for predators .
there doesn 't seem to be anything mystical about this .
we don 't , however , really understand at a mathematical level .
i 'm a mathematician . we would like to be able to understand better .
i mean , i showed you a computer model , but a computer is not understanding .
a computer is , in a way , just another experiment .
we would really like to have a deeper insight into how this works and to understand , you know , exactly where this organization comes from .
how do the rules give rise to the patterns ?
there is one case that we have begun to understand better , and it 's the case of fireflies .
if you see fireflies in north america , like so many north american sorts of things , they tend to be independent operators . they ignore each other .
they each do their own thing , flashing on and off , paying no attention to their neighbors .
but in southeast asia -- places like thailand or malaysia or borneo -- there 's a beautiful cooperative behavior that occurs among male fireflies .
you can see it every night along the river banks .
the trees , mangrove trees , are filled with fireflies communicating with light .
specifically , it 's male fireflies who are all flashing in perfect time together , in perfect synchrony , to reinforce a message to the females .
and the message , as you can imagine , is " come hither . mate with me . "
in a second i 'm going to show you a slow motion of a single firefly so that you can get a sense . this is a single frame .
then on , and then off -- a 30th of a second , there .
and then watch this whole river bank , and watch how precise the synchrony is .
on , more on and then off .
the combined light from these beetles -- these are actually tiny beetles -- is so bright that fishermen out at sea can use them as navigating beacons to find their way back to their home rivers . it 's stunning .
for a long time it was not believed when the first western travelers , like sir francis drake , went to thailand and came back with tales of this unbelievable spectacle .
no one believed them .
we don 't see anything like this in europe or in the west .
and for a long time , even after it was documented , it was thought to be some kind of optical illusion .
scientific papers were published saying it was twitching eyelids that explained it , or , you know , a human being 's tendency to see patterns where there are none .
but i hope you 've convinced yourself now , with this nighttime video , that they really were very well synchronized .
okay , well , the issue then is , do we need to be alive to see this kind of spontaneous order , and i 've already hinted that the answer is no .
well , you don 't have to be a whole creature .
you can even be just a single cell .
like , take , for instance , your pacemaker cells in your heart right now .
they 're keeping you alive .
every beat of your heart depends on this crucial region , the sinoatrial node , which has about 10,000 independent cells that would each beep , have an electrical rhythm -- a voltage up and down -- to send a signal to the ventricles to pump .
now , your pacemaker is not a single cell .
it 's this democracy of 10,000 cells that all have to fire in unison for the pacemaker to work correctly .
i don 't want to give you the idea that synchrony is always a good idea .
if you have epilepsy , there is an instance of billions of brain cells , or at least millions , discharging in pathological concert .
so this tendency towards order is not always a good thing .
you don 't have to be alive . you don 't have to be even a single cell .
if you look , for instance , at how lasers work , that would be a case of atomic synchrony .
in a laser , what makes laser light so different from the light above my head here is that this light is incoherent -- many different colors and different frequencies , sort of like the way you clapped initially -- but if you were a laser , it would be rhythmic applause . it would be all atoms pulsating in unison , emitting light of one color , one frequency .
now comes the very risky part of my talk , which is to demonstrate that inanimate things can synchronize .
hold your breath for me .
what i have here are two empty water bottles .
this is not keith barry doing a magic trick .
this is a klutz just playing with some water bottles .
i have some metronomes here .
can you hear that ?
all right , so , i 've got a metronome , and it 's the world 's smallest metronome , the -- well , i shouldn 't advertise .
anyway , so this is the world 's smallest metronome .
i 've set it on the fastest setting , and i 'm going to now take another one set to the same setting .
we can try this first . if i just put them on the table together , there 's no reason for them to synchronize , and they probably won 't .
maybe you 'd better listen to them . i 'll stand here .
what i 'm hoping is that they might just drift apart because their frequencies aren 't perfectly the same .
right ? they did .
they were in sync for a while , but then they drifted apart .
and the reason is that they 're not able to communicate .
now , you might think that 's a bizarre idea .
how can metronomes communicate ?
well , they can communicate through mechanical forces .
so i 'm going to give them a chance to do that .
i also want to wind this one up a bit . how can they communicate ?
i 'm going to put them on a movable platform , which is the " guide to graduate study at cornell . " okay ? so here it is .
let 's see if we can get this to work .
my wife pointed out to me that it will work better if i put both on at the same time because otherwise the whole thing will tip over .
all right . so there we go . let 's see . ok , i 'm not trying to cheat -- let me start them out of sync . no , hard to even do that .
all right . so before any one goes out of sync , i 'll just put those right there .
now , that might seem a bit whimsical , but this pervasiveness of this tendency towards spontaneous order sometimes has unexpected consequences .
and a clear case of that , was something that happened in london in the year 2000 .
the millennium bridge was supposed to be the pride of london -- a beautiful new footbridge erected across the thames , first river crossing in over 100 years in london .
there was a big competition for the design of this bridge , and the winning proposal was submitted by an unusual team -- in the ted spirit , actually -- of an architect -- perhaps the greatest architect in the united kingdom , lord norman foster -- working with an artist , a sculptor , sir anthony caro , and an engineering firm , ove arup .
and together they submitted a design based on lord foster 's vision , which was -- he remembered as a kid reading flash gordon comic books , and he said that when flash gordon would come to an abyss , he would shoot what today would be a kind of a light saber .
he would shoot his light saber across the abyss , making a blade of light , and then scamper across on this blade of light .
he said , " that 's the vision i want to give to london .
i want a blade of light across the thames . "
so they built the blade of light , and it 's a very thin ribbon of steel , the world 's -- probably the flattest and thinnest suspension bridge there is , with cables that are out on the side .
you 're used to suspension bridges with big droopy cables on the top .
these cables were on the side of the bridge , like if you took a rubber band and stretched it taut across the thames -- that 's what 's holding up this bridge .
now , everyone was very excited to try it out .
on opening day , thousands of londoners came out , and something happened .
and within two days the bridge was closed to the public .
so i want to first show you some interviews with people who were on the bridge on opening day , who will describe what happened .
man : it really started moving sideways and slightly up and down , rather like being on the boat .
woman : yeah , it felt unstable , and it was very windy , and i remember it had lots of flags up and down the sides , so you could definitely -- there was something going on sideways , it felt , maybe .
interviewer : not up and down ? boy : no .
interviewer : and not forwards and backwards ? boy : no .
interviewer : just sideways . about how much was it moving , do you think ?
boy : it was about -- interviewer : i mean , that much , or this much ?
boy : about the second one .
interviewer : this much ? boy : yeah .
man : it was at least six , six to eight inches , i would have thought .
interviewer : right , so , at least this much ? man : oh , yes .
woman : i remember wanting to get off .
interviewer : oh , did you ? woman : yeah . it felt odd .
interviewer : so it was enough to be scary ? woman : yeah , but i thought that was just me .
interviewer : ah ! now , tell me why you had to do this ?
boy : we had to do this because , to keep in balance because if you didn 't keep your balance , then you would just fall over about , like , to the left or right , about 45 degrees .
interviewer : so just show me how you walk normally . right .
and then show me what it was like when the bridge started to go . right .
so you had to deliberately push your feet out sideways and -- oh , and short steps ?
man : that 's right . and it seemed obvious to me that it was probably the number of people on it .
interviewer : were they deliberately walking in step , or anything like that ?
man : no , they just had to conform to the movement of the bridge .
steven strogatz : all right , so that already gives you a hint of what happened .
think of the bridge as being like this platform .
think of the people as being like metronomes .
now , you might not be used to thinking of yourself as a metronome , but after all , we do walk like -- i mean , we oscillate back and forth as we walk .
and especially if we start to walk like those people did , right ?
they all showed this strange sort of skating gait that they adopted once the bridge started to move .
and so let me show you now the footage of the bridge .
but also , after you see the bridge on opening day , you 'll see an interesting clip of work done by a bridge engineer at cambridge named allan mcrobie , who figured out what happened on the bridge , and who built a bridge simulator to explain exactly what the problem was .
it was a kind of unintended positive feedback loop between the way the people walked and the way the bridge began to move , that engineers knew nothing about .
actually , i think the first person you 'll see is the young engineer who was put in charge of this project . okay .
interviewer : did anyone get hurt ? engineer : no .
interviewer : right . so it was quite small -- engineer : yes . interviewer : -- but real ?
engineer : absolutely . interviewer : you thought , " oh , bother . "
engineer : i felt i was disappointed about it .
we 'd spent a lot of time designing this bridge , and we 'd analyzed it , we 'd checked it to codes -- to heavier loads than the codes -- and here it was doing something that we didn 't know about .
interviewer : you didn 't expect . engineer : exactly .
narrator : the most dramatic and shocking footage shows whole sections of the crowd -- hundreds of people -- apparently rocking from side to side in unison , not only with each other , but with the bridge .
this synchronized movement seemed to be driving the bridge .
but how could the crowd become synchronized ?
was there something special about the millennium bridge that caused this effect ?
this was to be the focus of the investigation .
interviewer : well , at last the simulated bridge is finished , and i can make it wobble .
now , allan , this is all your fault , isn 't it ? allan mcrobie : yes .
interviewer : you designed this , yes , this simulated bridge , and this , you reckon , mimics the action of the real bridge ?
am : it captures a lot of the physics , yes .
interviewer : right . so if we get on it , we should be able to wobble it , yes ?
allan mcrobie is a bridge engineer from cambridge who wrote to me , suggesting that a bridge simulator ought to wobble in the same way as the real bridge -- provided we hung it on pendulums of exactly the right length .
am : this one 's only a couple of tons , so it 's fairly easy to get going .
just by walking . interviewer : well , it 's certainly going now .
am : it doesn 't have to be a real dangle . just walk . it starts to go .
interviewer : it 's actually quite difficult to walk .
you have to be careful where you put your feet down , don 't you , because if you get it wrong , it just throws you off your feet .
am : it certainly affects the way you walk , yes . you can 't walk normally on it .
interviewer : no . if you try and put one foot in front of another , it 's moving your feet away from under you . am : yes .
interviewer : so you 've got to put your feet out sideways .
so already , the simulator is making me walk in exactly the same way as our witnesses walked on the real bridge .
am : ... ice-skating gait . there isn 't all this sort of snake way of walking .
interviewer : for a more convincing experiment , i wanted my own opening-day crowd , the sound check team .
their instructions : just walk normally .
it 's really intriguing because none of these people is trying to drive it .
they 're all having some difficulty walking .
and the only way you can walk comfortably is by getting in step .
but then , of course , everyone is driving the bridge .
you can 't help it . you 're actually forced by the movement of the bridge to get into step , and therefore to drive it to move further .
ss : all right , well , with that from the ministry of silly walks , maybe i 'd better end . i see i 've gone over .
but i hope that you 'll go outside and see the world in a new way , to see all the amazing synchrony around us . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / cary _ fowler _ one _ seed _ at _ a _ time _ protecting _ the _ future _ of _ food.html
the varieties of wheat , corn and rice we grow today may not thrive in a future threatened by climate change . cary fowler takes us inside a vast global seed bank , buried within a frozen mountain in norway , that stores a diverse group of food-crop for whatever tomorrow may bring .
agriculture , biodiversity , biosphere , climate change , disaster relief , environment
622
cary fowler : one seed at a time , protecting the future of food
i 've been fascinated with crop diversity for about 35 years from now , ever since i stumbled across a fairly obscure academic article by a guy named jack harlan .
and he described the diversity within crops -- all the different kinds of wheat and rice and such -- as a genetic resource .
and he said , " this genetic resource , " -- and i 'll never forget the words -- " stands between us and catastrophic starvation on a scale we cannot imagine . " i figured he was either really on to something , or he was one of these academic nutcases .
so , i looked a little further , and what i figured out was that he wasn 't a nutcase .
he was the most respected scientist in the field .
what he understood was that biological diversity -- crop diversity -- is the biological foundation of agriculture .
it 's the raw material , the stuff , of evolution in our agricultural crops .
not a trivial matter .
and he also understood that that foundation was crumbling , literally crumbling .
that indeed , a mass extinction was underway in our fields , in our agricultural system .
and that this mass extinction was taking place with very few people noticing and even fewer caring .
now , i know that many of you don 't stop to think about diversity in agricultural systems and , let 's face it , that 's logical .
you don 't see it in the newspaper every day .
and when you go into the supermarket , you certainly don 't see a lot of choices there .
you see apples that are red , yellow , and green and that 's about it .
so , let me show you a picture of one form of diversity .
here 's some beans ,
and there are about 35 or 40 different varieties of beans on this picture .
now , imagine each one of these varieties as being distinct from another about the same way as a poodle from a great dane .
if i wanted to show you a picture of all the dog breeds in the world , and i put 30 or 40 of them on a slide , it would take about 10 slides because there about 400 breeds of dogs in the world .
but there are 35 to 40,000 different varieties of beans .
so if i were to going to show you all the beans in the world , and i had a slide like this , and i switched it every second , it would take up my entire ted talk , and i wouldn 't have to say anything .
but the interesting thing is that this diversity -- and the tragic thing is -- that this diversity is being lost .
we have about 200,000 different varieties of wheat , and we have about 2 to 400,000 different varieties of rice , but it 's being lost .
and i want to give you an example of that .
it 's a bit of a personal example , in fact .
in the united states , in the 1800s -- that 's where we have the best data -- farmers and gardeners were growing 7,100 named varieties of apples .
imagine that . 7,100 apples with names .
today , 6,800 of those are extinct ,
no longer to be seen again .
i used to have a list of these extinct apples ,
and when i would go out and give a presentation , i would pass the list out in the audience . i wouldn 't tell them what it was , but it was in alphabetical order ,
and i would tell them to look for their names , their family names , their mother 's maiden name .
and at the end of the speech , i would ask , " how many people have found a name ? " and i never had fewer than two-thirds of an audience hold up their hand .
and i said , " you know what ? these apples come from your ancestors , and your ancestors gave them the greatest honor they could give them . they gave them their name .
the bad news is they 're extinct .
the good news is a third of you didn 't hold up your hand . your apple 's still out there .
find it . make sure it doesn 't join the list . "
so , i want to tell you that the piece of the good news is that the fowler apple is still out there .
and there 's an old book back here , and i want to read a piece from it .
this book was published in 1904 .
it 's called " the apples of new york " and this is the second volume .
see , we used to have a lot of apples .
and the fowler apple is described in here -- i hope this doesn 't surprise you -- as , " a beautiful fruit . "
i don 't know if we named the apple or if the apple named us , but ...
but , to be honest , the description goes on and it says that it " doesn 't rank high in quality , however . "
and then he has to go even further . it sounds like it was written by an old school teacher of mine . " as grown in new york , the fruit usually fails to develop properly in size and quality and is , on the whole , unsatisfactory . " and i guess there 's a lesson to be learned here , and the lesson is : so why save it ? i get this question all the time . why don 't we just save the best one ?
and there are a couple of answers to that question .
one thing is that there is no such thing as a best one .
today 's best variety is tomorrow 's lunch for insects or pests or disease .
the other thing is that maybe that fowler apple or maybe a variety of wheat that 's not economical right now has disease or pest resistance or some quality that we 're going to need for climate change that the others don 't .
so it 's not necessary , thank god , that the fowler apple is the best apple in the world .
it 's just necessary or interesting that it might have one good , unique trait .
and for that reason , we ought to be saving it .
why ? as a raw material , as a trait we can use in the future .
think of diversity as giving us options .
and options , of course , are exactly what we need in an era of climate change .
i want to show you two slides , but first , i want to tell you that we 've been working at the global crop diversity trust with a number of scientists -- particularly at stanford and university of washington -- to ask the question : what 's going to happen to agriculture in an era of climate change
and what kind of traits and characteristics do we need in our agricultural crops to be able to adapt to this ? in short , the answer is that in the future , in many countries , the coldest growing seasons are going to be hotter than anything those crops have seen in the past .
the coldest growing seasons of the future , hotter than the hottest of the past .
is agriculture adapted to that ?
i don 't know . can fish play the piano ?
if agriculture hasn 't experienced that , how could it be adapted ?
now , the highest concentration of poor and hungry people in the world , and the place where climate change , ironically , is going to be the worst is in south asia and sub-saharan africa .
so i 've picked two examples here , and i want to show you .
in the histogram before you now , the blue bars represent the historical range of temperatures , going back about far as we have temperature data .
and you can see that there 's some difference between one growing season and another .
some are colder , some are hotter and it 's a bell shaped curve .
the tallest bar is the average temperature for the most number of growing seasons .
in the future , later this century , it 's going to look like the red , totally out of bounds .
the agricultural system and , more importantly , the crops in the field in india have never experienced this before .
here 's south africa . the same story .
but the most interesting thing about south africa is we don 't have to wait for 2070 for there to be trouble .
by 2030 , if the maize , or corn , varieties , which is the dominant crop -- 50 percent of the nutrition in southern africa are still in the field -- in 2030 , we 'll have a 30 percent decrease in production of maize because of the climate change already in 2030 .
30 percent decrease of production in the context of increasing population , that 's a food crisis . it 's global in nature .
we will watch children starve to death on tv .
now , you may say that 20 years is a long way off .
it 's two breeding cycles for maize .
we have two rolls of the dice to get this right .
we have to get climate-ready crops in the field , and we have to do that rather quickly .
now , the good news is that we have conserved . we have collected and conserved a great deal of biological diversity , agricultural diversity , mostly in the form of seed , and we put it in seed banks , which is a fancy way of saying a freezer .
if you want to conserve seed for a long term and you want to make it available to plant breeders and researchers , you dry it and then you freeze it .
unfortunately , these seed banks are located around the world in buildings and they 're vulnerable .
disasters have happened . in recent years we lost the gene bank , the seed bank in iraq and afghanistan . you can guess why .
in rwanda , in the solomon islands .
and then there are just daily disasters that take place in these buildings , financial problems and mismanagement and equipment failures , and all kinds of things , and every time something like this happens , it means extinction . we lose diversity .
and i 'm not talking about losing diversity in the same way that you lose your car keys .
i 'm talking about losing it in the same way that we lost the dinosaurs : actually losing it , never to be seen again .
so , a number of us got together and decided that , you know , enough is enough and we need to do something about that and we need to have a facility that can really offer protection for our biological diversity of -- maybe not the most charismatic diversity .
you don 't look in the eyes of a carrot seed quite in the way you do a panda bear , but it 's very important diversity .
so we needed a really safe place , and we went quite far north to find it .
to svalbard , in fact . this is above mainland norway . you can see greenland there .
that 's at 78 degrees north .
it 's as far as you can fly on a regularly scheduled airplane .
it 's a remarkably beautiful landscape . i can 't even begin to describe it to you .
it 's otherworldly , beautiful .
we worked with the norwegian government and with the norgen , the norwegian genetic resources program , to design this facility .
what you see is an artist 's conception of this facility , which is built in a mountain in svalbard .
the idea of svalbard was that it 's cold , so we get natural freezing temperatures .
but it 's remote . it 's remote and accessible
so it 's safe and we don 't depend on mechanical refrigeration .
this is more than just an artist 's dream , it 's now a reality .
and this next picture shows it in context , in svalbard .
and here 's the front door of this facility .
when you open up the front door , this is what you 're looking at . it 's pretty simple . it 's a hole in the ground . it 's a tunnel , and you go into the tunnel , chiseled in solid rock , about 130 meters .
there are now a couple of security doors , so you won 't see it quite like this .
again , when you get to the back , you get into an area that 's really my favorite place .
i think of it as sort of a cathedral .
and i know that this tags me as a bit of a nerd , but ...
some of the happiest days of my life have been spent ...
in this place there .
if you were to walk into one of these rooms , you would see this .
it 's not very exciting , but if you know what 's there , it 's pretty emotional .
we have now about 425,000 samples of unique crop varieties .
there 's 70,000 samples of different varieties of rice in this facility right now .
about a year from now , we 'll have over half a million samples .
we 're going up to over a million , and someday we 'll basically have samples -- about 500 seeds -- of every variety of agricultural crop that can be stored in a frozen state in this facility .
this is a backup system for world agriculture . it 's a backup system for all the seed banks . storage is free .
it operates like a safety deposit box .
norway owns the mountain and the facility , but the depositors own the seed .
and if anything happens , then they can come back and get it .
this particular picture that you see shows the national collection of the united states , of canada , and an international institution from syria .
i think it 's interesting in that this facility , i think , is almost the only thing i can think of these days where countries , literally , every country in the world -- because we have seeds from every country in the world -- all the countries of the world have gotten together to do something that 's both long term , sustainable and positive .
i can 't think of anything else that 's happened in my lifetime that way .
i can 't look you in the eyes and tell you that i have a solution for climate change , for the water crisis .
agriculture takes 70 percent of fresh water supplies on earth .
i can 't look you in the eyes and tell you that there is such a solution for those things , or the energy crisis , or world hunger , or peace in conflict .
i can 't look you in the eyes and tell you that i have a simple solution for that , but i can look you in the eyes and tell you that we can 't solve any of those problems if we don 't have crop diversity .
because i challenge you to think of an effective , efficient , sustainable solution to climate change if we don 't have crop diversity .
because , quite literally , if agriculture doesn 't adapt to climate change , neither will we .
and if crops don 't adapt to climate change , neither will agriculture , neither will we .
so , this is not something pretty and nice to do .
there are a lot of people who would love to have this diversity exist just for the existence value of it .
it is , i agree , a nice thing to do .
but it 's a necessary thing to do .
so , in a very real sense , i believe that we , as an international community , should get organized to complete the task .
the svalbard global seed vault is a wonderful gift that norway and others have given us , but it 's not the complete answer .
we need to collect the remaining diversity that 's out there .
we need to put it into good seed banks that can offer those seeds to researchers in the future .
we need to catalog it . it 's a library of life ,
but right now i would say we don 't have a card catalog for it .
and we need to support it financially .
my big idea would be that while we think of it as commonplace to endow an art museum or endow a chair at a university , we really ought to be thinking about endowing wheat .
30 million dollars in an endowment would take care of preserving all the diversity in wheat forever .
so we need to be thinking a little bit in those terms .
and my final thought is that we , of course , by conserving wheat , rice , potatoes , and the other crops , we may , quite simply , end up saving ourselves .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / yossi _ vardi _ fights _ local _ warming.html
investor and prankster yossi vardi delivers a ballsy lecture on the dangers of blogging . specifically , for men .
blog , comedy , humor , short talk
203
yossi vardi fights local warming
we are going to talk today about the sequel of " inconvenient truth . "
it 's time again to talk about " inconvenient truth , " a truth that everyone is concerned about , but nobody is willing to talk about .
somebody has to take the lead , and i decided to do it .
if you are scared by global warming , wait until we learn about local warming .
we will talk today about local warming .
important health message : blogging may be hazardous to your health , especially if you are a male .
this message is given as a public service .
blogging affects your posture . we start with the posture .
this is the posture of ladies who are not blogging ; this is the posture of ladies who are blogging .
this is the natural posture of a man sitting , squatting for ventilation purposes .
and this is the natural posture of a standing man ,
and i think this picture inspired chris to insert me into the lateral thinking session .
this is male blogging posture sitting , and the result is , " for greater comfort , men naturally sit with their legs farther apart than women ,
when working on laptop . however , they will adopt a less natural posture in order to balance it on their laps ,
which resulted in a significant rise of body heat between their thighs . " this is the issue of local warming .
this is a very serious newspaper ; it 's times of england --
very serious . this is a very --
-- gentlemen and ladies , be serious .
this is a very serious research , that you should read the underline .
and be careful , your genes are in danger .
will geeks become endangered species ?
the fact : population growth in countries with high laptop --
i need hans rosling to give me a graph .
global warming fun .
how to take care in five easy steps :
first of all , you can use natural ventilation . you can use body breath .
you should stay cool with the appropriate clothing .
you should care about your posture -- this is not right .
can you extract from chris another minute and a half for me , because i have a video i have to show you .
you are great . this is the correct posture .
another benefit of wi-fi , we learned yesterday about the benefits of wi-fi .
wi-fi enables you to avoid the processor . and there are some enhanced protection measures , which i would like to share with you ,
and i would like , in a minute , to thank philips for helping .
this is a research which was done in ' 86 , but it 's still valid .
scrotal temperature reflects intratesticular temperature and is lowered by shaving .
by the way , i must admit , my english is not so good ,
i didn 't know what is scrotal ; i understand it 's a scrotum .
i guess in plural it 's scrotal , like medium and media .
digital scrotum , digital media .
and only last year i recognized that i 'm a proud scrotum owner .
and this research is being precipitated by the u.s. government ,
so you can see that your tax man is working for good causes .
video : man : the philips bodygroom has a sleek , ergonomic design for a safe and easy way to trim those scruffy underarm hairs , the untidy curls on and around your [ bleep ] , as well as the hard to reach locks on the underside of your
[ bleep ] and [ bleep ] . once you use the bodygroom , the world looks different . and so does your [ bleep ] . these days , with a hair-free back , well-groomed shoulders and an extra optical inch on my [ bleep ] , well , let 's just say life has gotten pretty darn cozy .
yossi vardi : this is one of the most popular viral advertisement of last year , known as the optical inch by philips . let 's applaud philips --
-- for this gesture for humanity .
and this is how they are promoting the product . this is --
i didn 't touch it , this is original .
laptop use to solve overpopulation . and if everything failed , there are some secondary uses .
and then our next talk , our next ted if you invite me will be why you should not carry a cell phone in your pocket .
and this is what the young generation says .
and i just want to show you that i 'm not just preaching ,
but i also practice .
4 am in the morning .
you cannot use this picture .
now , i have some mini ted prizes , this is the philips bodygroom , one for our leader .
anybody feels threatened , anybody really need it ?
any lady , any lady ? thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / burt _ rutan _ sees _ the _ future _ of _ space.html
in this passionate talk , legendary spacecraft designer burt rutan lambasts the us government-funded space program for stagnating and asks entrepreneurs to pick up where nasa has left off .
nasa , aircraft , business , design , engineering , entrepreneur , flight , industrial design , invention , rocket science , science , space , technology , transportation
4
burt rutan sees the future of space
i want to start off by saying , houston , we have a problem .
we 're entering a second generation of no progress in terms of human flight in space . in fact , we 've regressed .
we stand a very big chance of losing our ability to inspire our youth to go out and continue this very important thing that we as a species have always done .
and that is , instinctively we 've gone out and climbed over difficult places , went to more hostile places ,
and found out later , maybe to our surprise , that that 's the reason we survived .
and i feel very strongly that it 's not good enough for us to have generations of kids that think that it 's ok to look forward to a better version of a cell phone with a video in it .
they need to look forward to exploration ; they need to look forward to colonization ; they need to look forward to breakthroughs .
we need to inspire them , because they need to lead us and help us survive in the future .
i 'm particularly troubled that what nasa 's doing right now with this new bush doctrine to -- for this next decade and a half -- oh shoot , i screwed up .
we have real specific instructions here not to talk about politics .
what we 're looking forward to is -- what we 're looking forward to is not only the inspiration of our children ,
but the current plan right now is not really even allowing the most creative people in this country -- the boeing 's and lockheed 's space engineers -- to go out and take risks and try new stuff .
we 're going to go back to the moon ... 50 years later ? and we 're going to do it very specifically planned to not learn anything new .
i 'm really troubled by that . but anyway that 's -- the basis of the thing that i want to share with you today , though , is that right back to where we inspire people who will be our great leaders later .
that 's the theme of my next 15 minutes here .
and i think that the inspiration begins when you 're very young : three-year-olds , up to 12- , 14-year-olds .
what they look at is the most important thing .
let 's take a snapshot at aviation .
and there was a wonderful little short four-year time period when marvelous things happened .
it started in 1908 , when the wright brothers flew in paris , and everybody said , " ooh , hey , i can do that . " there 's only a few people that have flown in early 1908 . in four years , 39 countries had hundreds of airplanes , thousand of pilots . airplanes were invented by natural selection .
now you can say that intelligent design designs our airplanes of today , but there was no intelligent design really designing those early airplanes .
there were probably at least 30,000 different things tried , and when they crash and kill the pilot , don 't try that again .
the ones that flew and landed ok because there were no trained pilots who had good flying qualities by definition .
so we , by making a whole bunch of attempts , thousands of attempts , in that four-year time period , we invented the concepts of the airplanes that we fly today . and that 's why they 're so safe , as we gave it a lot of chance to find what 's good .
that has not happened at all in space flying .
there 's only been two concepts tried -- two by the u.s. and one by the russians .
well , who was inspired during that time period ?
aviation week asked me to make a list of who i thought were the movers and shakers of the first 100 years of aviation .
and i wrote them down and i found out later that every one of them was a little kid in that wonderful renaissance of aviation .
well , what happened when i was a little kid was -- some pretty heavy stuff too .
the jet age started : the missile age started . von braun was on there showing how to go to mars -- and this was before sputnik .
and this was at a time when mars was a hell of a lot more interesting than it is now . we thought there 'd be animals there ; we knew there were plants there ; the colors change , right ?
but , you know , nasa screwed that up because they 've sent these robots and they 've landed it only in the deserts .
if you look at what happened -- this little black line is as fast as man ever flew , and the red line is top-of-the-line military fighters and the blue line is commercial air transport .
you notice here 's a big jump when i was a little kid -- and i think that had something to do with giving me the courage to go out and try something that other people weren 't having the courage to try .
well , what did i do when i was a kid ?
i didn 't do the hotrods and the girls and the dancing
and , well , we didn 't have drugs in those days . but i did competition model airplanes .
i spent about seven years during the vietnam war flight-testing airplanes for the air force . and then i went in and i had a lot of fun building airplanes that people could build in their garages .
and some 3,000 of those are flying . of course , one of them is around the world voyager . i founded another company in ' 82 , which is my company now .
and we have developed more than one new type of airplane every year since 1982 .
and there 's a lot of them that i actually can 't show you on this chart .
the most impressive airplane ever , i believe , was designed only a dozen years after the first operational jet .
stayed in service till it was too rusty to fly , taken out of service .
we retreated in ' 98 back to something that was developed in ' 56 . what ?
the most impressive spaceship ever , i believe , was a grumman lunar lander . it was a -- you know , it landed on the moon , take off of the moon , didn 't need any maintenance guys -- that 's kind of cool .
we 've lost that capability . we abandoned it in ' 72 .
this thing was designed three years after gagarin first flew in space in 1961 .
three years , and we can 't do that now . crazy .
talk very briefly about innovation cycles , things that grow , have a lot of activity ; they die out when they 're replaced by something else .
these things tend to happen every 25 years . 40 years long , with an overlap . you can put that statement on all kinds of different technologies . the interesting thing --
by the way , the speed here , excuse me , higher-speed travel is the title of these innovation cycles . there is none here .
these two new airplanes are the same speed as the dc8 that was done in 1958 .
here 's the biggie , and that is , you don 't have innovation cycles if the government develops and the government uses it .
you know , a good example , of course , is the darpa net .
computers were used for artillery first , then irs .
but when we got it , now you have all the level of activity , all the benefit from it . private sector has to do it .
keep that in mind . i put down innovation --
i 've looked for innovation cycles in space ; i found none .
the very first year , starting when gagarin went in space , and a few weeks later alan shepherd , there were five manned space flights in the world -- the very first year .
in 2003 , everyone that the united states sent to space was killed .
there were only three or four flights in 2003 .
in 2004 , there were only two flights : two russian soyuz flights to the international manned station . and i had to fly three in mojave with my little group of a couple dozen people in order to get to a total of five , which was the number the same year back in 1961 .
there is no growth . there 's no activity . there 's no nothing .
this is a picture here taken from spaceshipone .
this is a picture here taken from orbit .
our goal is to make it so that you can see this picture and really enjoy that .
we know how to do it for sub-orbital flying now , do it safe enough -- at least as safe as the early airlines -- so that can be done .
and i think i want to talk a little bit about why we had the courage to go out and try that as a small company .
well , first of all , what 's going to happen next ?
the first industry will be a high volume , a lot of players .
there 's another one announced just last week .
and it will be sub-orbital . and the reason it has to be sub-orbital is , there is not solutions for adequate safety to fly the public to orbit . the governments have been doing this -- three governments have been doing this for 45 years , and still four percent of the people that have left the atmosphere have died .
that 's -- you don 't want to run a business with that kind of a safety record .
it 'll be very high volume ; we think 100,000 people will fly by 2020 .
i can 't tell you when this will start , because i don 't want my competition to know my schedule .
but i think once it does , we will find solutions ,
and very quickly , you 'll see those resort hotels in orbit .
and that real easy thing to do , which is a swing around the moon so you have this cool view . and that will be really cool .
because the moon doesn 't have an atmosphere -- you can do an elliptical orbit and miss it by 10 feet if you want .
oh , it 's going to be so much fun .
ok . my critics say , " hey , rutan 's just spending a lot of these billionaires ' money for joyrides for billionaires .
what 's this ? this is not a transportation system ; it 's just for fun . "
and i used to be bothered by that , and then i got to thinking ,
well , wait a minute . i bought my first apple computer in 1978
and i bought it because i could say , " i got a computer at my house and you don 't .
'what do you use it for ? ' come over . it does frogger . " ok .
not the bank 's computer or lockheed 's computer , but the home computer was for games .
for a whole decade it was for fun -- we didn 't even know what it was for .
but what happened , the fact that we had this big industry , big development , big improvement and capability and so on , and they get out there in enough homes -- we were ripe for a new invention .
and the inventor is in this audience .
al gore invented the internet and because of that , something that we used for a whole year -- excuse me -- a whole decade for fun , became everything -- our commerce , our research , our communication and , if we let the google guys think for another couple weekends , we can add a dozen more things to the list .
and it won 't be very long before you won 't be able to convince kids that we didn 't always have computers in our homes .
so fun is defendable .
ok , i want to show you kind of a busy chart , but in it is my prediction with what 's going to happen .
and in it also brings up another point , right here .
there 's a group of people that have come forward -- and you don 't know all of them -- but the ones that have come forward were inspired as young children , this little three- to 15-year-old age , by us going to orbit and going to the moon here , right in this time period .
paul allen , elan musk , richard branson , jeff bezos , the ansari family , which is now funding the russians ' sub-orbital thing , bob bigelow , a private space station , and carmack .
these people are taking money and putting it in an interesting area , and i think it 's a lot better than they put it in an area of a better cell phone or something -- but they 're putting it in very -- areas and this will lead us into this kind of capability , and it will lead us into the next really big thing and it will allow us to explore . and i think eventually it will allow us to colonize and to keep us from going extinct .
they were inspired by big progress . but look at the progress that 's going on after that .
there were a couple of examples here .
the military fighters had a -- highest-performance military airplane was the sr71 . it went a whole life cycle , got too rusty to fly ,
and was taken out of service . the concorde doubled the speed for airline travel .
it went a whole life cycle without competition , took out of service . and we 're stuck back here with the same kind of capability for military fighters and commercial airline travel that we had back in the late ' 50s .
but something is out there to inspire our kids now .
and i 'm talking about if you 've got a baby now , or if you 've got a 10-year-old now .
what 's out there is there 's something really interesting going to happen here .
relatively soon , you 'll be able to buy a ticket and fly higher and faster than the highest-performance military operational airplane . it 's never happened before .
the fact that they have stuck here with this kind of performance has been , well , you know , you win the war in 12 minutes ; why do you need something better ?
but i think when you guys start buying tickets and flying sub-orbital flights to space , very soon -- wait a minute , what 's happening here , we 'll have military fighters with sub-orbital capability , and i think very soon this .
but the interesting thing about it is the commercial guys are going to go first .
ok , i look forward to a new " capitalist 's space race , " let 's call it .
you remember the space race in the ' 60s was for national prestige , because we lost the first two milestones .
we didn 't lose them technically . the fact that we had the hardware to put something in orbit when we let von braun fly it --
you can argue that 's not a technical loss .
sputnik wasn 't a technical loss , but it was a prestige loss .
america -- the world saw america as not being the leader in technology , and that was a very strong thing .
and then we flew alan shepherd weeks after gagarin , not months or decades , or whatever . so we had the capability .
but america lost . we lost . and because of that , we made a big jump to recover it .
well , again , what 's interesting here is we 've lost to the russians on the first couple of milestones already .
you cannot buy a ticket commercially to fly into space in america --
can 't do it . you can buy it in russia .
you can fly with russian hardware . this is available because a russian space program is starving ,
and it 's nice for them to get 20 million here and there to take one of the seats .
it 's commercial . it can be defined as space tourism . they are also offering a trip to go on this whip around the moon , like apollo 8 was done .
100 million bucks -- hey , i can go to the moon .
but , you know , would you have thought back in the ' 60s , when the space race was going on , that the first commercial capitalist-like thing to do to buy a ticket to go to the moon would be in russian hardware ?
and would you have thought , would the russians have thought , that when they first go to the moon in their developed hardware , the guys inside won 't be russians ? maybe it 'll probably be a japanese or an american billionaire ? well , that 's weird : you know , it really is .
but anyway , i think we need to beat them again .
i think what we 'll do is we 'll see a successful , very successful , private space flight industry . whether we 're first or not really doesn 't matter .
the russians actually flew a supersonic transport before the concorde .
and then they flew a few cargo flights , and took it out of service .
i think you kind of see the same kind of parallel when the commercial stuff is offered .
ok , we 'll talk just a little bit about commercial development for human space flight .
this little thing says here : five times what nasa 's doing by 2020 . i want to tell you , already there 's about 1.5 billion to 1.7 billion investment in private space flight that is not government at all -- already , worldwide . if you read -- if you google it , you 'll find about half of that money , but there 's twice of that being committed out there -- not spent yet , but being committed and planned for the next few years . hey , that 's pretty big .
i 'm predicting , though , as profitable as this industry is going to be -- and it certainly is profitable when you fly people at 200,000 dollars on something that you can actually operate at a tenth of that cost , or less -- this is going to be very profitable .
i predict , also , that the investment that will flow into this will be somewhere around half of what the u.s. taxpayer spends for nasa 's manned spacecraft work .
and every dollar that flows into that will be spent more efficiently by a factor of 10 to 15 . and what that means is before we know it , the progress in human space flight , with no taxpayer dollars , will be at a level of about five times as much as the current nasa budgets for human space flight .
and that is because it 's us . it 's private industry .
you should never depend on the government to do this sort of stuff --
and we 've done it for a long time . the naca , before nasa , never developed an airliner and never ran an airline .
but nasa is developing the space liner , always has , and runs the only space line , ok . and we 've shied away from it because we 're afraid of it . but starting back in june of 2004 , when i showed that a little group out there actually can do it , can get a start with it , everything changed after that time .
ok , thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / william _ li.html
william li presents a new way to think about treating cancer and other diseases : anti-angiogenesis , preventing the growth of blood vessels that feed a tumor . the crucial first step : eating cancer-fighting foods that cut off the supply lines and beat cancer at its own game .
cancer , food , medicine , science , technology
859
william li : can we eat to starve cancer ?
good afternoon .
there 's a medical revolution happening all around us , and it 's one that 's going to help us conquer some of society 's most dreaded conditions , including cancer .
the revolution is called angiogenesis , and it 's based on the process that our bodies use to grow blood vessels .
so why should we care about blood vessels ?
well , the human body is literally packed with them : 60,000 miles worth in a typical adult .
end to end , that would form a line that would circle the earth twice .
the smallest blood vessels are called capillaries ;
we 've got 19 billion of them in our bodies .
and these are the vessels of life , and , as i 'll show you , they can also be the vessels of death .
now the remarkable thing about blood vessels is that they have this ability to adapt to whatever environment they 're growing in .
for example , in the liver they form channels to detoxify the blood ;
in the lung they line air sacs for gas exchange ;
in muscle they corkscrew so that muscles can contract without cutting off circulation ;
and in nerves they course along like power lines , keeping those nerves alive .
we get most of these blood vessels when we 're actually still in the womb ,
and what that means is that as adults , blood vessels don 't normally grow . except in a few special circumstances :
in women , blood vessels grow every month to build the lining of the uterus ;
during pregnancy , they form the placenta , which connects mom and baby .
and after injury , blood vessels actually have to grow under the scab in order to heal a wound .
and this is actually what it looks like ,
hundreds of blood vessels all growing toward the center of the wound .
so the body has the ability to regulate the amount of blood vessels that are present at any given time .
it does this through an elaborate and elegant system of checks and balances , stimulators and inhibitors of angiogenesis , such that , when we need a brief burst of blood vessels , the body can do this by releasing stimulators , proteins called angiogenic factors that act as natural fertilizer and stimulate new blood vessels to sprout . and when those excess vessels are no longer needed , the body prunes them back to baseline using naturally occurring inhibitors of angiogenesis .
now there are other situations where we start beneath the baseline and we need to grow more blood vessels just to get back to normal levels --
for example , after an injury --
and a body can do that too , but only to that normal level , that set point .
but what we now know is that for a number of diseases , there are defects in the system where the body can 't prune back extra blood vessels or can 't grow enough new ones in the right place at the right time .
and in these situations , angiogenesis is out of balance . and when angiogenesis is out of balance , a myriad of diseases result .
for example , insufficient angiogenesis -- not enough blood vessels -- leads to wounds that don 't heal , heart attacks , legs without circulation , death from stroke , nerve damage .
and on the other end , excessive angiogenesis -- too many blood vessels -- drives disease ,
and we see this in cancer , blindness , arthritis , obesity , alzheimer 's disease .
in total , there are more than 70 major diseases affecting more than a billion people worldwide , that all look on the surface to be different from one another , but all actually share abnormal angiogenesis as their common denominator .
and this realization is allowing us to reconceptualize the way that we actually approach these diseases by controlling angiogenesis .
now i 'm going to focus on cancer because angiogenesis is a hallmark of cancer , every type of cancer .
so here we go .
this is a tumor : dark , gray , ominous mass growing inside a brain .
and under the microscope , you can see hundreds of these brown staining blood vessels , capillaries that are feeding cancer cells , bringing oxygen and nutrients .
but cancers don 't start out like this .
and , in fact , cancers don 't start out with a blood supply .
they start out as small , microscopic nests of cells that can only grow to one half a cubic millimeter in size ;
that 's the tip of a ballpoint pen .
then they can 't get any larger because they don 't have a blood supply , so they don 't have enough oxygen or nutrients .
in fact , we 're probably forming these microscopic cancers all the time in our body .
autopsy studies from people who died in car accidents have shown that about 40 percent of women between the ages of 40 and 50 actually have microscopic cancers in their breasts ,
about 50 percent of men in their 50s and 60s have microscopic prostate cancers ,
and virtually 100 percent of us , by the time we reach our 70s , will have microscopic cancers growing in our thyroid .
yet , without a blood supply , most of these cancers will never become dangerous .
dr. judah folkman , who was my mentor and who was the pioneer of the angiogenesis field , once called this " cancer without disease . "
so the body 's ability to balance angiogenesis , when it 's working properly , prevents blood vessels from feeding cancers .
and this turns out to be one of our most important defense mechanisms against cancer .
in fact , if you actually block angiogenesis and prevent blood vessels from ever reaching cancer cells , tumors simply can 't grow up .
but once angiogenesis occurs , cancers can grow exponentially .
and this is actually how a cancer goes from being harmless to deadly .
cancer cells mutate and they gain the ability to release lots of those angiogenic factors , natural fertilizer , that tip the balance in favor of blood vessels invading the cancer .
and once those vessels invade the cancer , it can expand , it can invade local tissues .
and the same vessels that are feeding tumors allow cancer cells to exit into the circulation as metastases .
and , unfortunately , this late stage of cancer is the one at which it 's most likely to be diagnosed , when angiogenesis is already turned on and cancer cells are growing like wild .
so , if angiogenesis is a tipping point between a harmless cancer and a harmful one , then one major part of the angiogenesis revolution is a new approach to treating cancer by cutting off the blood supply .
we call this antiangiogenic therapy , and it 's completely different from chemotherapy because it selectively aims at the blood vessels that are feeding the cancers .
and we can do this because tumor blood vessels are unlike normal , healthy vessels we see in other places of the body :
they 're abnormal ; they 're very poorly constructed ; and , because of that , they 're highly vulnerable to treatments that target them .
in effect , when we give cancer patients antiangiogenic therapy -- here , an experimental drug for a glioma , which is a type of brain tumor -- you can see that there are dramatic changes that occur when the tumor is being starved .
here 's a woman with a breast cancer being treated with the antiangiogenic drug called avastin , which is fda approved . and you can see that the halo of blood flow disappears after treatment .
well , i 've just shown you two very different types of cancer that both responded to antiangiogenic therapy .
so , a few years ago , i asked myself , " can we take this one step further and treat other cancers , even in other species ? "
so here is a nine year-old boxer named milo who had a very aggressive tumor called a malignant neurofibroma growing on his shoulder .
it invaded into his lungs .
his veterinarian only gave him three months to live .
so we created a cocktail of antiangiogenic drugs that could be mixed into his dog food as well as an antiangiogenic cream that could be applied on the surface of the tumor .
and within a few weeks of treatment , we were able to slow down that cancer 's growth such that we were ultimately able to extend milo 's survival to six times what the veterinarian had initially predicted , all with a very good quality of life .
and we subsequently treated more than 600 dogs .
we have about a 60 percent response rate and improved survival for these pets that were about to be euthanized .
so let me show you a couple of even more interesting examples .
this is 20-year-old dolphin living in florida , and she had these lesions in her mouth that , over the course of three years , developed into invasive squamous cell cancers .
so we created an antiangiogenic paste .
we had it painted on top of the cancer three times a week .
and over the course of seven months , the cancers completely disappeared , and the biopsies came back as normal .
here 's a cancer growing on the lip of a wuarter horse named guinness .
it 's a very , very deadly type of cancer called an angiosarcoma .
it had already spread to his lymph nodes , so we used an antiangiogenic skin cream for the lip and an oral cocktail , so we could treat from the inside as well as the outside .
and over the course of six months , he experienced a complete remission .
and here he is six years later , guinness , with his very happy owner .
now , obviously , antiangiogenic therapy could be used for a wide range of cancers .
and , in fact , the first pioneering treatments for people , as well as dogs , are already becoming available .
there 's 12 different drugs , 11 different cancer types . but the real question is : how well do these work in practice ?
so here 's actually the patient survival data from eight different types of cancer .
the bars represent survival time taken from the era in which there was only chemotherapy , or surgery , or radiation available .
but starting in 2004 , when antiangiogenic therapies first became available , well you can see that there has been a 70 to 100 percent improvement in survival for people with kidney cancer , multiple myeloma , colorectal cancer , and gastrointestinal stromal tumors .
that 's impressive .
but for other tumors and cancer types , the improvements have only been modest .
so i started asking myself , " why haven 't we been able to do better ? "
and the answer , to me , is obvious ; we 're treating cancer too late in the game , when it 's already established and , oftentimes , it 's already spread or metastasized .
and as a doctor , i know that once a disease progresses to an advanced stage , achieving a cure can be difficult , if not impossible .
so i went back to the biology of angiogenesis and started thinking : could the answer to cancer be preventing angiogenesis , beating cancer at its own game so the cancers could never become dangerous ?
this could help healthy people as well as people who 've already beaten cancer once or twice and want to find a way to keep it from coming back .
so to look for a way to prevent angiogenesis in cancer , i went back to look at cancer 's causes .
and what really intrigued me was when i saw that diet accounts for 30 to 35 percent of environmentally caused cancers .
now , the obvious thing is to think about what we could remove from our diet , what to strip out , take away . but i actually took a completely opposite approach and began asking : what could we be adding to our diet that 's naturally antiangiogenic , that could boost the body 's defense system and beat back those blood vessels that are feeding cancers ?
in other words , can we eat to starve cancer ?
well , the answer 's yes ,
and i 'm going to show you how .
our search for this has taken us to the market , the farm and to the spice cabinet , because what we 've discovered is that mother nature has laced a large number of foods and beverages and herbs with naturally occurring inhibitors of angiogenesis .
so here 's a test system we developed .
at the center is a ring from which hundreds of blood vessels are growing out in a starburst fashion .
and we can use this system to test dietary factors at concentrations that are obtainable by eating .
so let me show you what happens when we put in an extract from red grapes .
the active ingredient 's resveratrol ,
it 's also found in red wine .
this inhibits abnormal angiogenesis by 60 percent .
here 's what happens when we added an extract from strawberries ;
it potently inhibits angiogenesis .
and extract from soybeans .
and here is a growing list of our antiangiogenic foods and beverages that we 're interested in studying . for each food type , we believe that there are different potencies within different strains and varietals .
and we want to measure this because , well , while you 're eating a strawberry or drinking tea , why not select the one that 's most potent for preventing cancer .
so here are four different teas that we 've tested .
they 're all common ones : chinese jasmine , japanese sencha , earl grey and a special blend that we prepared .
and you can see clearly that the teas vary in their potency from less potent to more potent .
but what 's very cool is when we actually combined the two less potent teas together , the combination , the blend , is more potent than either one alone .
this means there 's food synergy .
here 's some more data from our testing .
now , in the lab , we can simulate tumor angiogenesis represented here in a black bar .
and using this system , we can test the potency of cancer drugs .
so the shorter the bar , less angiogenesis , that 's good .
and here are some common drugs that have been associated with reducing the risk of cancer in people .
statins , nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and a few others , they inhibit angiogenesis too .
and here are the dietary factors going head to head against these drugs .
you can see , they clearly hold their own and , in some cases , they 're more potent than the actual drugs .
soy , parsley , garlic , grapes , berries ; i could go home and cook a tasty meal using these ingredients .
so imagine if we could create the world 's first rating system in which we could score foods according to their antiangiogenic , cancer-preventative properties .
and that 's what we 're doing right now .
now , i 've shown you a bunch of lab data , and so the real question is : what is the evidence in people that eating certain foods can reduce angiogenesis in cancer ?
well , the best example i know is a study of 79,000 men followed over 20 years , in which it was found that men who consumed cooked tomatoes two to three times a week had up to a 50 percent reduction in their risk of developing prostate cancer .
now , we know that tomatoes are a good source of lycopene , and lycopene is antiangiogenic .
but what 's even more interesting from this study is that in those men who did develop prostate cancer , those who ate more servings of tomato sauce actually had fewer blood vessels feeding their cancer .
so this human study is a prime example of how antiangiogenic substances present in food and consumed at practical levels can impact on cancer .
and we 're now studying the role of a healthy diet with dean ornish at ucsf and tufts university on the role of this healthy diet on markers of angiogenesis that we can find in the bloodstream .
now , obviously , what i 've shared with you has some far-ranging implications , even beyond cancer research .
because if we 're right , it could impact on consumer education , food services , public health and even the insurance industry .
and , in fact , some insurance companies are already beginning to think along these lines .
check out this ad from blue cross blue shield of minnesota .
and for many people around the world , dietary cancer prevention may be the only practical solution because not everybody can afford expensive end-stage cancer treatments , but everybody could benefit from a healthy diet based on local , sustainable , antiangiogenic crops .
now , finally , i 've talked to you about food , and i 've talked to you about cancer , so there 's just one more disease that i have to tell you about and that 's obesity .
because it turns out that adipose tissue , fat , is highly angiogenesis dependent .
and , like a tumor , fat grows when blood vessels grow .
so the question is : can we shrink fat by cutting off its blood supply ?
so the top curve shows the body weight of a genetically obese mouse that eats nonstop until it turns fat , like this furry tennis ball .
and the bottom curve is the weight of a normal mouse .
if you take the obese mouse and give it an angiogenesis inhibitor , it loses weight .
stop the treatment , gains the weight back .
restart the treatment , loses the weight again .
stop the treatment , it gains the weight back .
and , in fact , you can cycle the weight up and down simply by inhibiting angiogenesis .
so this approach that we 're taking for cancer prevention may also have an application for obesity .
the really , truly interesting thing about this is that we can 't take these obese mice and make them lose more weight than what the normal mouse 's weight is supposed to be .
in other words , we can 't create supermodel mice .
and this speaks to the role of angiogenesis in regulating healthy set points .
albert szent-gyorgi once said that , " discovery consists of seeing what everyone has seen , and thinking what no one has thought . "
i hope i 've convinced you that , for diseases like cancer , obesity and other conditions , that there may be a great power in attacking their common denominator : angiogenesis .
and that 's what i think the world needs now . thank you .
june cohen : i have a quick question for you . so these drugs aren 't exactly ... they 're not exactly in mainstream cancer treatments right now .
for anyone out here who has cancer , what would you recommend ?
do you recommend pursuing these treatments now , for most cancer patients ?
william li : so there are antiangiogenic treatments that are fda approved ,
and if you 're a cancer patient or working for one or advocating for one , you should ask about them .
and there are many clinical trials .
the angiogenesis foundation is following almost 300 companies , and there are about 100 more drugs in that pipeline .
so consider the approved ones , look for clinical trials , but then between what the doctor can do for you , we need to start asking what can we do for ourselves .
and this is one of the themes that i 'm talking about is we can empower ourselves to do the things that doctors can 't do for us , which is to use knowledge and take action .
and if mother nature has given us some clues , we think that there might be a new future in the value of how we eat .
and what we eat is really our chemotherapy three times a day .
jc : right . and along those lines , for people who might have risk factors for cancer , would you recommend pursuing any treatments sort of prophylactically or simply pursuing the right diet with lots of tomato sauce ?
wl : well , you know , there 's abundant epidemiological evidence .
and i think in the information age , it doesn 't take long to go to a credible source like pubmed , the national library of medicine , to look for epidemiological studies for cancer risk reduction based on diet and based on common medications .
and that 's certainly something that anybody can look into .
jc : okay . well , thank you so much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / scott _ kim _ takes _ apart _ the _ art _ of _ puzzles.html
at the 2008 eg conference , famed puzzle designer scott kim takes us inside the puzzle-maker 's frame of mind . sampling his career 's work , he introduces a few of the most popular types , and shares the fascinations that inspired some of his best .
art , computers , design , gaming , math , video
705
scott kim takes apart the art of puzzles
for the last 20 years i 've been designing puzzles .
and i 'm here today to give you a little tour , starting from the very first puzzle i designed , through what i 'm doing now .
i 've designed puzzles for books , printed things .
i 'm the puzzle columnist for discover magazine .
i 've been doing that for about 10 years .
i have a monthly puzzle calendar .
i do toys . the bulk of my work is in computer games .
i did puzzles for " bejeweled . "
i didn 't invent " bejeweled . " i can 't take credit for that .
so , very first puzzle , sixth grade , my teacher said , " oh , let 's see , that guy , he likes to make stuff .
i 'll have him cut out letters out of construction paper for the board . "
i thought this was a great assignment .
and so here is what i came up with . i start fiddling with it .
i came up with this letter . this is a letter of the alphabet that 's been folded just once .
the question is , which letter is it if i unfold it ?
one hint : it 's not " l. "
it could be an " l , " of course .
so , what else could it be ?
yeah , a lot of you got it .
oh yeah . so , clever thing .
now , that was my first puzzle . i got hooked .
i created something new , i was very excited because , you know , i 'd made crossword puzzles , but that 's sort of like filling in somebody else 's matrix .
this was something really original . i got hooked .
i read martin gardner 's columns in scientific american .
went on , and eventually decided to devote myself , full time , to that .
now , i should pause and say , what do i mean by puzzle ?
a puzzle is a problem that is fun to solve and has a right answer .
" fun to solve , " as opposed to everyday problems , which , frankly , are not very well-designed puzzles .
you know , they might have a solution . it might take a long time . nobody wrote down the rules clearly .
who designed this ?
it 's like , you know , life is not a very well-written story so we have to hire writers to make movies .
well , i take everyday problems , and i make puzzles out of them .
and " right answer , " of course there might be more than one right answer ; many puzzles have more than one .
but as opposed to a couple other forms of play , toys and games -- by toy i mean , something you play with that doesn 't have a particular goal .
you can create one out of legos . you know , you can do anything you want .
or competitive games like chess where , well , you 're not trying to solve ... you can make a chess puzzle , but the goal really is to beat another player .
i consider that puzzles are an art form .
they 're very ancient . it goes back as long as there is written history .
it 's a very small form , like a joke , a poem , a magic trick or a song , very compact form .
at worst , they 're throwaways , they 're for amusement .
but at best they can reach for something more and create a memorable impression .
the progression of my career that you 'll see is looking for creating puzzles that have a memorable impact .
so , one thing i found early on , when i started doing computer games , is that i could create puzzles that will alter your perception .
i 'll show you how . here is a famous one .
so , it 's two profiles in black , or a white vase in the middle .
this is called a figure-ground illusion .
the artist m.c. escher exploited that in some of his wonderful prints . here we have " day and night . "
here is what i did with figure and ground .
so , here we have " figure " in black .
here we have " figure " in white .
and it 's all part of the same design .
the background to one is the other .
originally i tried to do the words " figure " and " ground . "
but i couldn 't do that , i realized . i changed the problem .
it 's all " figure . "
a few other things . here is my name .
and that turns into the title of my first book , " inversions . "
these sorts of designs now go by the word " ambigram . "
i 'll show you just a couple others . here we have the numbers one through 10 , the digits zero through nine , actually .
each letter here is one of these digits .
not strictly an ambigram in the conventional sense .
i like pushing on what an ambigram can mean .
here 's the word " mirror . " no , it 's not the same upside-down . it 's the same this way .
and a marvelous fellow from the media lab who just got appointed head of risd , is john maeda .
and so i did this for him . it 's sort of a visual canon .
and recently in magic magazine i 've done a number of ambigrams on magician 's names .
so here we have penn and teller , same upside-down . this appears in my puzzle calendar .
okay , let 's go back to the slides .
thank you very much .
now , those are fun to look at .
now how would you do it interactively ?
for a while i was an interface designer .
and so i think a lot about interaction .
well , let 's first of all simplify the vases illusion ,
make the thing on the right .
now , if you could pick up the black vase , it would look like the figure on top .
if you could pick up the white area , it would look like the figure on the bottom .
well , you can 't do that physically ,
but on a computer you can do it . let 's switch over to the p.c .
and here it is , figure-ground .
the goal here is to take the pieces on the left and make them so they look like the shape on the right .
and this follows the rules i just said : any black area that is surrounded by white can be picked up . but that is also true of any white area .
so , here we got the white area in the middle , and you can pick it up .
i 'll just go one step further .
so , here is -- here is a couple pieces . move them together , and now this is an active piece .
you can really get inside somebody 's perception and have them experience something .
it 's like the old maxim of " you can tell somebody something and show them , but if they do it they really learn it . "
here is another thing you can do .
there is a game called rush hour . this is one of the true masterpieces in puzzle design besides rubik 's cube .
so , here we have a crowded parking lot with cars all over the place .
the goal is to get the red car out . it 's a sliding block puzzle .
it 's made by the company think fun .
it 's done very well . i love this puzzle .
well , let 's play one . here . so , here is a very simple puzzle .
well , that 's too simple , let 's add another piece .
okay , so how would you solve this one ?
well , move the blue one out of the way .
here , let 's make it a little harder . still pretty easy .
now we 'll make it harder , a little harder .
now , this one is a little bit trickier . you know ? what do you do here ?
the first move is going to be what ?
you 're going to move the blue one up in order to get the lavender one to the right .
and you can make puzzles like this one that aren 't solvable at all .
those four are locked in a pinwheel ; you can 't get them apart .
i wanted to make a sequel .
i didn 't come up with the original idea . but this is another way i work as an inventor is to create a sequel .
i came up with this . this is railroad rush hour .
it 's the same basic game except i introduced a new piece , a square piece that can move both horizontally and vertically .
in the other game the cars can only move forward and back .
created a whole bunch of levels for it . now i 'm making it available to schools .
and it includes exercises that show you not just how to solve these puzzles , but how to extract the principles that will let you solve mathematical puzzles or problems in science , other areas .
so , i 'm really interested in you learning how to make your own puzzles as well as just me creating them .
garry trudeau calls himself an investigative cartoonist .
you know , he does a lot of research before he writes a cartoon .
in discover magazine , i 'm an investigative puzzle maker .
i got interested in gene sequencing .
and i said , " well , how on earth can you come up with a sequence of the base pairs in dna ? "
cut up the dna , you sequence individual pieces , and then you look for overlaps ,
and you basically match them at the edges . and i said , " this is kind of like a jigsaw puzzle , except the pieces overlap . "
so , here is what i created for discover magazine .
and it has to be solvable in a magazine .
you know , you can 't cut out the pieces and move them around .
so , here is the nine pieces . and you 're supposed to put them into this grid .
and you have to choose pieces that overlap on the edge .
there is only one solution . it 's not that hard .
but it takes some persistence .
and when you 're done , it makes this design , which , if you squint , is the word " helix . "
so , that 's the form of the puzzle coming out of the content , rather than the other way around .
here is a couple more . here is a physics-based puzzle .
which way will these fall ?
one of these weighs 50 pounds , 30 pounds and 10 pounds .
and depending on which one weighs which amount , they 'll fall different directions .
and here is a puzzle based on color mixing .
i separated this image into cyan , magenta , yellow , black , the basic printing colors , and then mixed up the separations , and you get these peculiar pictures .
which separations were mixed up to make those pictures ?
gets you thinking about color .
finally , what i 'm doing now . so , shufflebrain.com , website you can go visit , i joined up with my wife , amy-jo kim .
she could easily be up here giving a talk about her work .
so , we 're making smart games for social media .
i 'll explain what that means . we 're looking at three trends .
this is what 's going on in the games industry right now .
first of all , you know , for a long time computer games meant things like " doom , " where you 're going around shooting things , very violent games , very fast , aimed at teenage boys . right ? that 's who plays computer games .
well , guess what ? that 's changing .
" bejeweled " is a big hit . it was the game that really broke open what 's called casual games .
and the main players are over 35 , and are female .
then recently " rock band " has been a big hit .
and it 's a game you play with other people . it 's very physical . it looks nothing like a traditional game . this is what 's becoming the dominant form of electronic gaming .
now , within that there is some interesting things happening .
there is also a trend towards games that are good for you . why ? well , we aging boomers , baby boomers , we 're eating our healthy food , we 're exercising . what about our minds ?
oh no , our parents are getting alzheimer 's . we better do something .
turns out doing crossword puzzles can stave off some of the effects of alzheimer 's .
so , we got games like " brain age " coming out for the nintendo ds , huge hit .
a lot of people do sudoku . in fact some doctors prescribe it .
and then there is social media , and what 's happening on the internet .
everybody now considers themselves a creator , and not just a viewer .
and what does this add up to ?
here is what we see coming .
it 's games that fit into a healthy lifestyle .
they 're part of your life . they 're not necessarily a separate thing .
and they are both , something that is good for you , and they 're fun .
i 'm a puzzle guy . my wife is an expert in social media .
and we decided to combine our skills . our first game is called " photo grab . " the game takes about a minute and 20 seconds .
this is your first time playing my game . okay .
let 's see how well we can do . there are three images . and we have 24 seconds each .
where is that ?
i 'll play as fast as i can .
but if you can see it , shout out the answer .
you get more -- down , okay , yeah where is that ?
oh , yeah . there , okay . j-o and -- i guess that 's that part . we got the bow . that bow helps .
that 's his hair . you get a lot of figure-ground problems .
yeah , that one is easy . okay . so , ahhh ! okay on to the next one .
okay , so that 's the lens .
anybody ?
looks like a black shape . so , where is that ?
that 's the corner of the whole thing .
yeah , i 've played this image before , but even when i make up my own puzzles -- and you can put your own images in here .
and we have people all over the world doing that now .
there we are . visit shufflebrain.com if you want to try it yourself . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eve _ ensler _ embrace _ your _ inner _ girl.html
in this passionate talk , eve ensler declares that there is a girl cell in us all -- a cell that we have all been taught to suppress . she tells heartfelt stories of girls around the world who have overcome shocking adversity and violence to reveal the astonishing strength of being a girl .
culture , gender , self , social change , women
751
eve ensler : embrace your inner girl
namaste . good morning .
i 'm very happy to be here in india .
and i 've been thinking a lot about what i have learned over these last particularly 11 years with v-day and " the vagina monologues , " traveling the world , essentially meeting with women and girls across the planet to stop violence against women .
what i want to talk about today is this particular cell , or grouping of cells , that is in each and every one of us .
and i want to call it the girl cell .
and it 's in men as well as in women .
i want you to imagine that this particular grouping of cells is central to the evolution of our species and the continuation of the human race .
and i want you imagine that at some point in history a group of powerful people invested in owning and controlling the world understood that the suppression of this particular cell , the oppression of these cells , the reinterpretation of these cells , the undermining of these cells , getting us to believe in the weakness of these cells and the crushing , eradicating , destroying , reducing these cells , basically began the process of killing off the girl cell , which was , by the way , patriarchy .
i want you to imagine that the girl is a chip in the huge macrocosm of collective consciousness .
and it is essential to balance , to wisdom and to actually the future of all of us .
and then i want you to imagine that this girl cell is compassion , and it 's empathy , and it 's passion itself , and it 's vulnerability , and it 's openness , and it 's intensity , and it 's association , and it 's relationship , and it is intuitive .
and then let 's think how compassion informs wisdom , and that vulnerability is our greatest strength , and that emotions have inherent logic , which lead to radical , appropriate , saving action .
and then let 's remember that we 've been taught the exact opposite by the powers that be , that compassion clouds your thinking , that vulnerability is weakness , that emotions are not to be trusted , and you 're not supposed to take things personally , which is one of my favorites .
i think the whole world has essentially been brought up not to be a girl .
how do we bring up boys ? what does it mean to be a boy ?
to be a boy really means not to be a girl .
to be a man means not to be a girl .
to be a woman means not to be a girl .
to be strong means not to be a girl .
to be a leader means not to be a girl .
i actually think that being a girl is so powerful that we 've had to train everyone not to be that .
and i 'd also like to say that the irony of course , is that denying girl , suppressing girl , suppressing emotion , refusing feeling has lead thus here .
where we have now come to live in a world where the most extreme forms of violence , the most horrific poverty , genocide , mass rapes , the destruction of the earth , is completely out of control .
and because we have suppressed our girl cells and suppressed our girl-ship , we do not feel what is going on .
so , we are not being charged with the adequate response to what is happening .
i want to talk a little bit about the democratic republic of congo .
for me , it was the turning point of my life .
i have spent a lot of time there in the last three years .
i feel up to that point i had seen a lot in the world , a lot of violence .
i essentially lived in the rape mines of the world for the last 12 years .
but the democratic republic of congo really was the turning point in my soul .
i went and i spent time in a place called bukavu in a hospital called the panzi hospital , with a doctor who was as close to a saint as any person i 've ever met .
his name is dr. denis mukwege .
in the congo , for those of you who don 't know , there has been a war raging for the last 12 years , a war that has killed nearly six million people .
it is estimated that somewhere between 300,000 and 500,000 women have been raped there .
when i spent my first weeks at panzi hospital i sat with women who sat and lined up every day to tell me their stories .
their stories were so horrific , and so mind-blowing and so on the other side of human existence , that to be perfectly honest with you , i was shattered .
and i will tell you that what happened is through that shattering , listening to the stories of eight-year-old girls who had their insides eviscerated , who had guns and bayonets and things shoved inside them so they had holes , literally , inside them where their pee and poop came out of them .
listening to the story of 80-year-old women who were tied to chains and circled , and where groups of men would come and rape them periodically , all in the name of economic exploitation to steal the minerals so the west can have it and profit from them .
my mind was so shattered .
but what happened for me is that that shattering actually emboldened me
in a way i have never been emboldened .
that shattering , that opening of my girl cell , that kind of massive breakthrough of my heart allowed me to become more courageous , and braver , and actually more clever than i had been in the past in my life .
i want to say that i think the powers that be know that empire-building is actually -- that feelings get in the way of empire-building .
feelings get in the way of the mass acquisition of the earth , and excavating the earth , and destroying things .
i remember , for example , when my father , who was very , very violent , used to beat me .
and he would actually say , while he was beating me , " don 't you cry . don 't you dare cry . "
because my crying somehow exposed his brutality to him .
and even in the moment he didn 't want to be reminded of what he was doing .
i know that we have systematically annihilated the girl cell .
and i want to say we 've annihilated it in men as well as in women .
and i think in some ways we 've been much harsher to men in the annihilation of their girl cell .
i see how boys have been brought up , and i see this across the planet : to be tough , to be hardened , to distance themselves from their tenderness , to not cry .
i actually realized once in kosovo , when i watched a man break down , that bullets are actually hardened tears , that when we don 't allow men to have their girl self and have their vulnerability , and have their compassion , and have their hearts , that they become hardened and hurtful and violent .
and i think we have taught men to be secure when they are insecure , to pretend they know things when they don 't know things , or why would we be where we are ?
to pretend they 're not a mess when they are a mess .
and i will tell you a very funny story .
on my way here on the airplane , i was walking up and down the aisle of the plane .
and all these men , literally at least 10 men , were in their little seats watching chick flicks .
and they were all alone , and i thought , " this is the secret life of men . "
i 've traveled , as i said , to many , many countries , and i 've seen , if we do what we do to the girl inside us then obviously it 's horrific to think what we do to girls in the world .
and we heard from sunitha yesterday , and kavita about what we do to girls .
but i just want to say that i 've met girls with knife wounds and cigarette burns , who are literally being treated like ashtrays .
i 've seen girls be treated like garbage cans .
i 've seen girls who were beaten by their mothers and brothers and fathers and uncles .
i 've seen girls starving themselves to death in america in institutions to look like some idealized version of themselves .
i 've seen that we cut girls and we control them and we keep them illiterate , or we make them feel bad about being too smart .
we silence them . we make them feel guilty for being smart . we get them to behave , to tone it down , not to be too intense .
we sell them , we kill them as embryos ,
we enslave them , we rape them .
we are so accustomed to robbing girls of the subject of being the subjects of their lives that we have now actually objectified them and turned them into commodities .
the selling of girls is rampant across the planet .
and in many places they are worth less than goats and cows .
but i also want to talk about the fact that if one in eight people on the planet are girls between the ages of 10 to 24 , they are they key , really , in the developing world , as well as in the whole world , to the future of humanity .
and if girls are in trouble because they face systematic disadvantages that keep them where society wants them to be , including lack of access to healthcare , education , healthy foods , labor force participation .
the burden of all the household tasks usually falls on girls and younger siblings ,
which ensures that they will never overcome these barriers .
the state of girls , the condition of girls , will , in my belief -- and that 's the girl inside us and the girl in the world -- determine whether the species survives .
and what i want to suggest is that , having talked to girls , because i just finished a new book called " i am an emotional creature : the secret life of girls around the world , " i 've been talking to girls for five years , and one of the things that i 've seen is true everywhere is that the verb that 's been enforced on girl is the verb " to please . "
girls are trained to please .
i want to change the verb .
i want us all to change the verb .
i want the verb to be " educate , " or " activate , " or " engage , " or " confront , " or " defy , " or " create . "
if we teach girls to change the verb we will actually enforce the girl inside us and the girl inside them .
and i have to now share a few stories of girls i 've seen across the planet who have engaged their girl , who have taken on their girl in spite of all the circumstances around them .
i know a 14-year-old girl in the netherlands , for example , who is demanding that she take a boat and go around the entire world by herself .
there is a teenage girl who just recently went out and knew that she needed 56 stars tattooed on the right side of her face .
there is a girl , julia butterfly hill , who lived for a year in a tree because she wanted to protect the wild oaks .
there is a girl who i met 14 years ago in afghanistan who i have adopted as my daughter because her mother was killed . her mother was a revolutionary .
and this girl , when she was 17 years old , wore a burqa in afghanistan , and went into the stadiums and documented the atrocities that were going on towards women , underneath her burqa , with a video .
and that video became the video that went out all over the world after 9 / 11 to show what was going on in afghanistan .
i want to talk about rachel corrie who was in her teens when she stood in front of an israeli tank to say , " end the occupation . "
and she knew she risked death and she was literally gunned down and rolled over by that tank .
and i want to talk about a girl that i just met recently in bukavu , who was impregnated by her rapist .
and she was holding her baby .
and i asked her if she loved her baby .
and she looked into her baby 's eyes and she said , " of course i love my baby . how could i not love my baby ?
it 's my baby and it 's full of love . " the capacity for girls to overcome situations and to move on levels , to me , is mind-blowing .
there is a girl named dorcas , and i just met her in kenya .
dorcas is 15 years old , and she was trained in self-defense .
a few months ago she was picked up on the street by three older men .
they kidnapped her , they put her in a car .
and through her self-defense , she grabbed their adam 's apples , she punched them in the eyes and she got herself free and out of the car .
in kenya , in august , i went to visit one of the v-day safe houses for girls , a house we opened seven years ago with an amazing woman named agnes pareyio .
agnes was a woman who was cut when she was a little girl , she was female genitally mutilated .
and she made a decision as many women do across this planet , that what was done to her would not be enforced and done to other women and girls .
so , for years agnes walked through the rift valley .
she taught girls what a healthy vagina looked like , and what a mutilated vagina looked like .
and in that time she saved many girls . and when we met her we asked her what we could do for her , and she said , " well , if you got me a jeep i could get around a lot faster . " so , we got her a jeep . and then she saved 4,500 girls .
and then we asked her , " okay , what else do you need ? " and she said , " well , now , i need a house . " so , seven years ago agnes built the first v-day safe house in narok , kenya , in the masai land .
and it was a house where girls could run away , they could save their clitoris , they wouldn 't be cut , they could go to school .
and in the years that agnes has had the house , she has changed the situation there .
she has literally become deputy mayor .
she 's changed the rules .
the whole community has bought in to what she 's doing .
when we were there she was doing a ritual where she reconciles girls , who have run away , with their families .
and there was a young girl named jaclyn .
jaclyn was 14 years old and she was in her masai family and there 's a drought in kenya .
so cows are dying , and cows are the most valued possession .
and jaclyn overheard her father talking to an old man about how he was about to sell her for the cows .
and she knew that meant she would be cut .
she knew that meant she wouldn 't go to school .
she knew that meant she wouldn 't have a future .
she knew she would have to marry that old man , and she was 14 .
so , one afternoon , she 'd heard about the safe house , jaclyn left her father 's house and she walked for two days , two days through masai land .
she slept with the hyenas . she hid at night .
she imagined her father killing her on one hand , and mama agnes greeting her , with the hope that she would greet her when she got to the house .
and when she got to the house she was greeted .
agnes took her in , and agnes loved her ,
and agnes supported her for the year .
she went to school and she found her voice , and she found her identity , and she found her heart .
then , her time was ready when she had to go back to talk to her father about the reconciliation , after a year .
i had the privilege of being in the hut when she was reunited with her father and reconciled .
in that hut , we walked in , and her father and his four wives were sitting there , and her sisters who had just returned because they had all fled when she had fled , and her primary mother , who had been beaten in standing up for her with the elders .
when her father saw her and saw who she had become , in her full girl self , he threw his arms around her and broke down crying .
he said , " you are beautiful . you have grown into a gorgeous woman .
we will not cut you .
and i give you my word , here and now , that we will not cut your sisters either . "
and what she said to him was , " you were willing to sell me for four cows , and a calf and some blankets .
but i promise you , now that i will be educated i will always take care of you , and i will come back and i will build you a house .
and i will be in your corner for the rest of your life . " for me , that is the power of girls .
and that is the power of transformation .
i want to close today with a new piece from my book .
and i want to do it tonight for the girl in everybody here .
and i want to do it for sunitha .
and i want to do it for the girls that sunitha talked about yesterday , the girls who survive , the girls who can become somebody else .
but i really want to do it for each and every person here , to value the girl in us , to value the part that cries , to value the part that 's emotional , to value the part that 's vulnerable , to understand that 's where the future lies . this is called " i 'm an emotional creature . " and it happened because i met a girl in watts , l.a .
i was asking girls if they like being a girl , and all the girls were like , " no , i hate it . i can 't stand it .
it 's all bad . my brothers get everything . " and this girl just sat up and went , " i love being a girl .
i 'm an emotional creature ! " this is for her : i love being a girl .
i can feel what you 're feeling as you 're feeling inside the feeling before .
i am an emotional creature .
things do not come to me as intellectual theories or hard-pressed ideas .
they pulse through my organs and legs and burn up my ears .
oh , i know when your girlfriend 's really pissed off , even though she appears to give you what you want .
i know when a storm is coming .
i can feel the invisible stirrings in the air .
i can tell you he won 't call back . it 's a vibe i share .
i am an emotional creature .
i love that i do not take things lightly .
everything is intense to me , the way i walk in the street , the way my momma wakes me up , the way it 's unbearable when i lose , the way i hear bad news .
i am an emotional creature .
i am connected to everything and everyone . i was born like that .
don 't you say all negative that it 's only only a teenage thing , or it 's only because i 'm a girl .
these feelings make me better .
they make me present . they make me ready . they make me strong .
i am an emotional creature .
there is a particular way of knowing . it 's like the older women somehow forgot .
i rejoice that it 's still in my body .
oh , i know when the coconut 's about to fall .
i know we have pushed the earth too far .
i know my father isn 't coming back , and that no one 's prepared for the fire .
i know that lipstick means more than show , and boys are super insecure , and so-called terrorists are made , not born .
i know that one kiss could take away all my decision-making ability .
and you know what ? sometimes it should .
this is not extreme . it 's a girl thing , what we would all be if the big door inside us flew open .
don 't tell me not to cry , to calm it down , not to be so extreme , to be reasonable .
i am an emotional creature .
it 's how the earth got made , how the wind continues to pollinate .
you don 't tell the atlantic ocean to behave .
i am an emotional creature .
why would you want to shut me down or turn me off ?
i am your remaining memory .
i can take you back .
nothing 's been diluted .
nothing 's leaked out .
i love , hear me , i love that i can feel the feelings inside you , even if they stop my life , even if they break my heart , even if they take me off track , they make me responsible .
i am an emotional , i am an emotional , incondotional , devotional creature .
and i love , hear me , i love , love , love being a girl .
can you say it with me ?
i love , i love , love , love being a girl !
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / ron _ eglash _ on _ african _ fractals.html
'i am a mathematician , and i would like to stand on your roof . ' that is how ron eglash greeted many african families he met while researching the fractal patterns he 'd noticed in villages across the continent .
africa , architecture , culture , design , education , math , technology
198
ron eglash on african fractals
i want to start my story in germany , in 1877 , with a mathematician named georg cantor .
and cantor decided he was going to take a line and erase the middle third of the line , and then take those two resulting lines and bring them back into the same process , a recursive process .
so he starts out with one line , and then two , and then four , and then 16 , and so on .
and if he does this an infinite number of times , which you can do in mathematics , he ends up with an infinite number of lines , each of which has an infinite number of points in it .
so he realized he had a set whose number of elements was larger than infinity .
and this blew his mind . literally . he checked into a sanitarium .
and when he came out of the sanitarium , he was convinced that he had been put on earth to found transfinite set theory because the largest set of infinity would be god himself .
he was a very religious man .
he was a mathematician on a mission .
and other mathematicians did the same sort of thing .
a swedish mathematician , von koch , decided that instead of subtracting lines , he would add them .
and so he came up with this beautiful curve .
and there 's no particular reason why we have to start with this seed shape ; we can use any seed shape we like .
and i 'll rearrange this and i 'll stick this somewhere -- down there , ok -- and now upon iteration , that seed shape sort of unfolds into a very different looking structure .
so these all have the property of self-similarity : the part looks like the whole .
it 's the same pattern at many different scales .
now , mathematicians thought this was very strange because as you shrink a ruler down , you measure a longer and longer length .
and since they went through the iterations an infinite number of times , as the ruler shrinks down to infinity , the length goes to infinity .
this made no sense at all ,
so they consigned these curves to the back of the math books .
they said these are pathological curves , and we don 't have to discuss them . and that worked for a hundred years .
and then in 1977 , benoit mandelbrot , a french mathematician , realized that if you do computer graphics and used these shapes he called fractals , you get the shapes of nature .
you get the human lungs , you get acacia trees , you get ferns , you get these beautiful natural forms .
if you take your thumb and your index finger and look right where they meet -- go ahead and do that now -- -- and relax your hand , you 'll see a crinkle , and then a wrinkle within the crinkle , and a crinkle within the wrinkle . right ?
your body is covered with fractals .
the mathematicians who were saying these were pathologically useless shapes ?
they were breathing those words with fractal lungs .
it 's very ironic . and i 'll show you a little natural recursion here .
again , we just take these lines and recursively replace them with the whole shape .
so here 's the second iteration , and the third , fourth and so on .
so nature has this self-similar structure .
nature uses self-organizing systems .
now in the 1980s , i happened to notice that if you look at an aerial photograph of an african village , you see fractals .
and i thought , " this is fabulous ! i wonder why ? " and of course i had to go to africa and ask folks why .
so i got a fulbright scholarship to just travel around africa for a year asking people why they were building fractals , which is a great job if you can get it .
and so i finally got to this city , and i 'd done a little fractal model for the city just to see how it would sort of unfold -- but when i got there , i got to the palace of the chief , and my french is not very good ; i said something like , " i am a mathematician and i would like to stand on your roof . " but he was really cool about it , and he took me up there , and we talked about fractals .
and he said , " oh yeah , yeah ! we knew about a rectangle within a rectangle , we know all about that . " and it turns out the royal insignia has a rectangle within a rectangle within a rectangle , and the path through that palace is actually this spiral here .
and as you go through the path , you have to get more and more polite .
so they 're mapping the social scaling onto the geometric scaling ; it 's a conscious pattern . it is not unconscious like a termite mound fractal .
this is a village in southern zambia .
the ba-ila built this village about 400 meters in diameter .
you have a huge ring .
the rings that represent the family enclosures get larger and larger as you go towards the back , and then you have the chief 's ring here towards the back and then the chief 's immediate family in that ring .
so here 's a little fractal model for it .
here 's one house with the sacred altar , here 's the house of houses , the family enclosure , with the humans here where the sacred altar would be , and then here 's the village as a whole -- a ring of ring of rings with the chief 's extended family here , the chief 's immediate family here , and here there 's a tiny village only this big .
now you might wonder , how can people fit in a tiny village only this big ? that 's because they 're spirit people . it 's the ancestors .
and of course the spirit people have a little miniature village in their village , right ?
so it 's just like georg cantor said , the recursion continues forever .
this is in the mandara mountains , near the nigerian border in cameroon , mokoulek .
i saw this diagram drawn by a french architect , and i thought , " wow ! what a beautiful fractal ! " so i tried to come up with a seed shape , which , upon iteration , would unfold into this thing .
i came up with this structure here .
let 's see , first iteration , second , third , fourth .
now , after i did the simulation , i realized the whole village kind of spirals around , just like this , and here 's that replicating line -- a self-replicating line that unfolds into the fractal .
well , i noticed that line is about where the only square building in the village is at .
so , when i got to the village , i said , " can you take me to the square building ?
i think something 's going on there . " and they said , " well , we can take you there , but you can 't go inside because that 's the sacred altar , where we do sacrifices every year to keep up those annual cycles of fertility for the fields . " and i started to realize that the cycles of fertility were just like the recursive cycles in the geometric algorithm that builds this .
and the recursion in some of these villages continues down into very tiny scales .
so here 's a nankani village in mali .
and you can see , you go inside the family enclosure -- you go inside and here 's pots in the fireplace , stacked recursively .
here 's calabashes that issa was just showing us , and they 're stacked recursively .
now , the tiniest calabash in here keeps the woman 's soul .
and when she dies , they have a ceremony where they break this stack called the zalanga and her soul goes off to eternity .
once again , infinity is important .
now , you might ask yourself three questions at this point .
aren 't these scaling patterns just universal to all indigenous architecture ?
and that was actually my original hypothesis .
when i first saw those african fractals , i thought , " wow , so any indigenous group that doesn 't have a state society , that sort of hierarchy , must have a kind of bottom-up architecture . " but that turns out not to be true .
i started collecting aerial photographs of native american and south pacific architecture ; only the african ones were fractal .
and if you think about it , all these different societies have different geometric design themes that they use .
so native americans use a combination of circular symmetry and fourfold symmetry .
you can see on the pottery and the baskets .
here 's an aerial photograph of one of the anasazi ruins ; you can see it 's circular at the largest scale , but it 's rectangular at the smaller scale , right ?
it is not the same pattern at two different scales .
second , you might ask , " well , dr. eglash , aren 't you ignoring the diversity of african cultures ? " and three times , the answer is no .
first of all , i agree with mudimbe 's wonderful book , " the invention of africa , " that africa is an artificial invention of first colonialism , and then oppositional movements .
no , because a widely shared design practice doesn 't necessarily give you a unity of culture -- and it definitely is not " in the dna . "
and finally , the fractals have self-similarity -- so they 're similar to themselves , but they 're not necessarily similar to each other -- you see very different uses for fractals .
it 's a shared technology in africa .
and finally , well , isn 't this just intuition ?
it 's not really mathematical knowledge .
africans can 't possibly really be using fractal geometry , right ?
it wasn 't invented until the 1970s .
well , it 's true that some african fractals are , as far as i 'm concerned , just pure intuition .
so some of these things , i 'd wander around the streets of dakar asking people , " what 's the algorithm ? what 's the rule for making this ? " and they 'd say , " well , we just make it that way because it looks pretty , stupid . " but sometimes , that 's not the case .
in some cases , there would actually be algorithms , and very sophisticated algorithms .
so in manghetu sculpture , you 'd see this recursive geometry .
in ethiopian crosses , you see this wonderful unfolding of the shape .
in angola , the chokwe people draw lines in the sand , and it 's what the german mathematician euler called a graph ; we now call it an eulerian path -- you can never lift your stylus from the surface and you can never go over the same line twice .
but they do it recursively , and they do it with an age-grade system , so the little kids learn this one , and then the older kids learn this one , then the next age-grade initiation , you learn this one .
and with each iteration of that algorithm , you learn the iterations of the myth .
you learn the next level of knowledge .
and finally , all over africa , you see this board game .
it 's called owari in ghana , where i studied it ; it 's called mancala here on the east coast , bao in kenya , sogo elsewhere .
well , you see self-organizing patterns that spontaneously occur in this board game .
and the folks in ghana knew about these self-organizing patterns and would use them strategically .
so this is very conscious knowledge .
here 's a wonderful fractal .
anywhere you go in the sahel , you 'll see this windscreen .
and of course fences around the world are all cartesian , all strictly linear .
but here in africa , you 've got these nonlinear scaling fences .
so i tracked down one of the folks who makes these things , this guy in mali just outside of bamako , and i asked him , " how come you 're making fractal fences ? because nobody else is . " and his answer was very interesting .
he said , " well , if i lived in the jungle , i would only use the long rows of straw because they 're very quick and they 're very cheap .
it doesn 't take much time , doesn 't take much straw . " he said , " but wind and dust goes through pretty easily .
now , the tight rows up at the very top , they really hold out the wind and dust .
but it takes a lot of time , and it takes a lot of straw because they 're really tight . " " now , " he said , " we know from experience that the farther up from the ground you go , the stronger the wind blows . " right ? it 's just like a cost-benefit analysis .
and i measured out the lengths of straw , put it on a log-log plot , got the scaling exponent , and it almost exactly matches the scaling exponent for the relationship between wind speed and height in the wind engineering handbook .
so these guys are right on target for a practical use of scaling technology .
the most complex example of an algorithmic approach to fractals that i found was actually not in geometry , it was in a symbolic code , and this was bamana sand divination .
and the same divination system is found all over africa .
you can find it on the east coast as well as the west coast , and often the symbols are very well preserved , so each of these symbols has four bits -- it 's a four-bit binary word -- you draw these lines in the sand randomly , and then you count off , and if it 's an odd number , you put down one stroke , and if it 's an even number , you put down two strokes . and they did this very rapidly , and i couldn 't understand where they were getting -- they only did the randomness four times -- i couldn 't understand where they were getting the other 12 symbols .
and they wouldn 't tell me .
they said , " no , no , i can 't tell you about this . "
and i said , " well look , i 'll pay you , you can be my teacher , and i 'll come each day and pay you . " they said , " it 's not a matter of money . this is a religious matter . "
and finally , out of desperation , i said , " well , let me explain georg cantor in 1877 . " and i started explaining why i was there in africa , and they got very excited when they saw the cantor set .
and one of them said , " come here . i think i can help you out here . " and so he took me through the initiation ritual for a bamana priest .
and of course , i was only interested in the math , so the whole time , he kept shaking his head going , " you know , i didn 't learn it this way . " but i had to sleep with a kola nut next to my bed , buried in sand , and give seven coins to seven lepers and so on .
and finally , he revealed the truth of the matter .
and it turns out it 's a pseudo-random number generator using deterministic chaos .
when you have a four-bit symbol , you then put it together with another one sideways .
so even plus odd gives you odd .
odd plus even gives you odd .
even plus even gives you even . odd plus odd gives you even .
it 's addition modulo 2 , just like in the parity bit check on your computer .
and then you take this symbol , and you put it back in so it 's a self-generating diversity of symbols .
they 're truly using a kind of deterministic chaos in doing this .
now , because it 's a binary code , you can actually implement this in hardware -- what a fantastic teaching tool that should be in african engineering schools .
and the most interesting thing i found out about it was historical .
in the 12th century , hugo of santalla brought it from islamic mystics into spain .
and there it entered into the alchemy community as geomancy : divination through the earth .
this is a geomantic chart drawn for king richard ii in 1390 .
leibniz , the german mathematician , talked about geomancy in his dissertation called " de combinatoria . " and he said , " well , instead of using one stroke and two strokes , let 's use a one and a zero , and we can count by powers of two . " right ? ones and zeros , the binary code .
george boole took leibniz 's binary code and created boolean algebra , and john von neumann took boolean algebra and created the digital computer .
so all these little pdas and laptops -- every digital circuit in the world -- started in africa .
and i know brian eno says there 's not enough africa in computers , but you know , i don 't think there 's enough african history in brian eno .
so let me end with just a few words about applications that we 've found for this .
and you can go to our website , the applets are all free ; they just run in the browser .
anybody in the world can use them .
the national science foundation 's broadening participation in computing program recently awarded us a grant to make a programmable version of these design tools , so hopefully in three years , anybody 'll be able to go on the web and create their own simulations and their own artifacts .
we 've focused in the u.s. on african-american students as well as native american and latino .
we 've found statistically significant improvement with children using this software in a mathematics class in comparison with a control group that did not have the software .
so it 's really very successful teaching children that they have a heritage that 's about mathematics , that it 's not just about singing and dancing .
we 've started a pilot program in ghana . we got a small seed grant , just to see if folks would be willing to work with us on this ; we 're very excited about the future possibilities for that .
we 've also been working in design .
i didn 't put his name up here -- my colleague , kerry , in kenya , has come up with this great idea for using fractal structure for postal address in villages that have fractal structure , because if you try to impose a grid structure postal system on a fractal village , it doesn 't quite fit .
bernard tschumi at columbia university has finished using this in a design for a museum of african art .
david hughes at ohio state university has written a primer on afrocentric architecture in which he 's used some of these fractal structures .
and finally , i just wanted to point out that this idea of self-organization , as we heard earlier , it 's in the brain .
it 's in the -- it 's in google 's search engine .
actually , the reason that google was such a success is because they were the first ones to take advantage of the self-organizing properties of the web .
it 's in ecological sustainability .
it 's in the developmental power of entrepreneurship , the ethical power of democracy .
it 's also in some bad things .
self-organization is why the aids virus is spreading so fast .
and if you don 't think that capitalism , which is self-organizing , can have destructive effects , you haven 't opened your eyes enough .
so we need to think about , as was spoken earlier , the traditional african methods for doing self-organization .
these are robust algorithms .
these are ways of doing self-organization -- of doing entrepreneurship -- that are gentle , that are egalitarian .
so if we want to find a better way of doing that kind of work , we need look only no farther than africa to find these robust self-organizing algorithms .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / mark _ shaw _ one _ very _ dry _ demo.html
mark shaw demos ultra-ever dry , a liquid-repellent coating that acts as an astonishingly powerful shield against water and water-based materials . at the nano level , the spray covers a surface with an umbrella of air so that water bounces right off . watch for an exciting two-minute kicker .
demo , invention , nanoscale , technology , water
1700
mark shaw : one very dry demo
i 'm here to show you how something you can 't see can be so much fun to look at .
you 're about to experience a new , available and exciting technology that 's going to make us rethink how we waterproof our lives .
what i have here is a cinder block that we 've coated half with a nanotechnology spray that can be applied to almost any material .
it 's called ultra-ever dry , and when you apply it to any material , it turns into a superhydrophobic shield .
so this is a cinder block , uncoated , and you can see that it 's porous , it absorbs water .
not anymore .
porous , nonporous .
so what 's superhydrophobic ?
superhydrophobic is how we measure a drop of water on a surface .
the rounder it is , the more hydrophobic it is , and if it 's really round , it 's superhydrophobic .
a freshly waxed car , the water molecules slump to about 90 degrees .
a windshield coating is going to give you about 110 degrees .
but what you 're seeing here is 160 to 175 degrees , and anything over 150 is superhydrophobic .
so as part of the demonstration , what i have is a pair of gloves , and we 've coated one of the gloves with the nanotechnology coating , and let 's see if you can tell which one , and i 'll give you a hint .
did you guess the one that was dry ?
when you have nanotechnology and nanoscience , what 's occurred is that we 're able to now look at atoms and molecules and actually control them for great benefits .
and we 're talking really small here .
the way you measure nanotechnology is in nanometers , and one nanometer is a billionth of a meter ,
and to put some scale to that , if you had a nanoparticle that was one nanometer thick , and you put it side by side , and you had 50,000 of them , you 'd be the width of a human hair .
so very small , but very useful .
and it 's not just water that this works with . it 's a lot of water-based materials like concrete , water-based paint , mud , and also some refined oils as well .
you can see the difference .
moving onto the next demonstration , we 've taken a pane of glass and we 've coated the outside of it , we 've framed it with the nanotechnology coating , and we 're going to pour this green-tinted water inside the middle , and you 're going to see , it 's going to spread out on glass like you 'd normally think it would , except when it hits the coating , it stops , and i can 't even coax it to leave .
it 's that afraid of the water .
so what 's going on here ? what 's happening ?
well , the surface of the spray coating is actually filled with nanoparticles that form a very rough and craggly surface .
you 'd think it 'd be smooth , but it 's actually not .
and it has billions of interstitial spaces , and those spaces , along with the nanoparticles , reach up and grab the air molecules , and cover the surface with air .
it 's an umbrella of air all across it ,
and that layer of air is what the water hits , the mud hits , the concrete hits , and it glides right off .
so if i put this inside this water here , you can see a silver reflective coating around it , and that silver reflective coating is the layer of air that 's protecting the water from touching the paddle , and it 's dry .
so what are the applications ?
i mean , many of you right now are probably going through your head .
everyone that sees this gets excited , and says , " oh , i could use it for this and this and this . " the applications in a general sense could be anything that 's anti-wetting . we 've certainly seen that today .
it could be anything that 's anti-icing , because if you don 't have water , you don 't have ice .
it could be anti-corrosion .
no water , no corrosion .
it could be anti-bacterial .
without water , the bacteria won 't survive .
and it could be things that need to be self-cleaning as well .
so imagine how something like this could help revolutionize your field of work .
and i 'm going to leave you with one last demonstration , but before i do that , i would like to say thank you , and think small .
it 's going to happen . wait for it . wait for it .
chris anderson : you guys didn 't hear about us cutting out the design from ted ?
[ two minutes later ... ] he ran into all sorts of problems in terms of managing the medical research part .
it 's happening !
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / morley _ sings _ women _ of _ hope.html
inspired by aung san suu kyi 's call to action , " if you 're feeling helpless , help someone , " morley composed this song . she sings it at tedxwomen in her gorgeous , warm voice .
activism , arts , music , poetry , women
1323
morley sings " women of hope "
 they stood together   under a tree in tall grass   on tv   telling the world   their story   we will be left to wander   and fade away   soldiers came and took our husbands   at the break of day   we will live on   then fade away   soldiers came and killed our children   at the break of day   women of hope   women of change   women of war and pain   i believe   i believe the almighty knows each and every one of you   by your name   women of hope   women of change   women of love , joy , no shame   you 've got something this little life   can never take away   running through the darkness of night   with a child by her side   oh lord , won 't you give them   a shining armor of light   oh lord , won 't you give them   a shining armor of light   daybreak brings a sign of new life   with the power to stand   crossing the border   she said , " you will grow free on this land "   women of hope   women of change   women of war and pain   i can feel your power   in these words she said   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   nobody really knows   how far they will go   to keep on living   nobody really knows   how far they will go   to keep on giving   and forgiving   aung san suu kyi   living under house arrest   for her peaceful protest   under house arrest   for her peaceful protest   when her people asked her for a message   she said   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone  now we know the words , let 's sing .
 if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   if you 're feeling helpless   help someone   people of hope   people of change   people of love , joy , no shame   i believe the almighty   knows each and every one of you   by your name  thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / the _ jill _ and _ julia _ show.html
two ted favorites , jill sobule and julia sweeney , team up for a delightful set that mixes witty songwriting with a little bit of social commentary .
collaboration , entertainment , guitar , humor , short talk , singer , storytelling
222
the jill and julia show
 jill sobule : at a conference in monterey by the big , big jellyfish tank ,   i first saw you and i got so shy .   you see , i was a little paranoid ' cause i might have been high .   and i hadn 't done that in ages and i won 't do that again .   but that 's another story .   loved you forever and i 've been a big fan ,   the one-woman shows , i even rented " pat . "   i got enough nerve to come up to you ,   but little did i know one year later we 'd be doing this show .   i sing . julia sweeney : i tell stories . together : the jill and julia show .   sobule : sometimes it works . sweeney : sometimes it doesn 't .   together : the jill and julia show .   sweeney : at a conference in monterey next to the big , big jellyfish tank ,   i first saw you and i wasn 't so shy .  i made a beeline for you and told you what a huge fan i was
ever since i was writing that pilot for fox , and wendy and i wanted you to do the theme song .
and then the pilot didn 't go and i was so sad , but i kept remaining a fan of yours .
and then when i went through that big , horrible breakup with carl and i couldn 't get off the couch , i listened to your song ,  " now that i don 't have you , "  over and over and over and over again .
and i can 't believe you 're here and that i 'm meeting you here at ted .
and also , i can 't believe that we 're eating sushi in front of the fish tank , which , personally , i think is really inappropriate .
and little did i know that one year later ...  we 'd be doing this show .   sobule : i sing . sweeney : i tell stories . together : the jill and julia show .  sobule : hey , they asked us back ! sweeney : can you stand it ? !
 together : the jill and julia , the jill and julia , the jill and julia show .   sobule : why are all our heroes so imperfect ?   why do they always bring me down ?   why are all our heroes so imperfect ?   statue in the park has lost his crown .   william faulkner , drunk and depressed .  sweeney : mmm .  dorothy parker , mean , drunk and depressed .  sweeney : i know .  and that guy , " seven years in tibet , " turned out to be a nazi .  sweeney : yeah .  founding fathers all had slaves .  sweeney : i know .  the explorers slaughtered the braves .  sweeney : horribly .
 sobule : the old testament god can be so petty .  sweeney : don 't get me started on that .
 sobule : paul mccartney , jealous of john , even more so now that he 's gone .   dylan was so mean to donovan in that movie .   pablo picasso , cruel to his wives .  sweeney : horrible .
 sobule : my favorite poets took their own lives .   orson welles peaked at twenty-five , below before our eyes .   and he sold bad wine .   together : why are all our heroes so imperfect ? yeah   why do they always bring me down ?   sobule : heard babe ruth was full of malice .  sweeney : oh .  lewis carroll i 'm sure did alice .  sweeney : what ? !  plato in the cave with those very young boys .  sweeney : ooh ...
 sobule : hillary supported the war .   sweeney : even thomas friedman supported the war .   sobule : colin powell turned out to be ... together : ... such a pussy .   sobule : william faulkner , drunk and depressed ,   tennessee williams , drunk and depressed .  sweeney : yeah .  sobule : take it , julia . 
sweeney : okay . oprah was never necessarily a big hero of mine .
i mean , i watch oprah mostly when i 'm home in spokane visiting my mother . and to my mother , oprah is a greater moral authority than the pope , which is actually saying something because she 's a devout catholic .
anyway , i like oprah -- i like her girlfriendy-ness ,
i like her weight issues ,
i like how she 's transformed talk television ,
i like how she 's brought reading back to america --
but there was something that happened the last two weeks that was ... i call it the soon-yi moment :
it is the moment when i cannot continue supporting someone .
and that was that she did two entire shows promoting that movie " the secret . "
do you guys know about that movie " the secret " ?
it makes " what the bleep do we know " seem like a doctoral dissertation from harvard on quantum mechanics -- that 's how bad it is .
it makes " the davinci code " seem like " war and peace . "
that movie is so horrible . it promotes such awful pseudoscience .
and the basic idea is that there 's this law of attraction , and your thoughts have this vibrating energy that goes out into the universe and then you attract good things to happen to you .
on a scientific basis , it 's more than just " power of positive thinking " -- it has a horrible , horrible dark side . like if you get ill , it 's because you 've just been thinking negative thoughts .
yeah , stuff like that was in the movie and she 's promoting it .
and all i 'm saying is that i really wish that murray gell-mann would go on oprah and just explain to her that the law of attraction is , in fact , not a law .
so that 's what i have to say .
 sobule : i sing . sweeney : i tell stories . together : the jill and julia show .   sobule : sometimes it works . sweeney : sometimes it doesn 't .   together : the jill and julia , the jill and julia , the jill and julia show . 
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / robert _ full _ on _ engineering _ and _ evolution.html
insects and animals have evolved some amazing skills -- but , as robert full notes , many animals are actually over-engineered . the trick is to copy only what 's necessary . he shows how human engineers can learn from animals ' tricks .
animals , design , evolution , robots , science , technology , transportation
280
robert full on engineering and evolution
welcome . if i could have the first slide , please ?
contrary to calculations made by some engineers , bees can fly , dolphins can swim , and geckos can even climb up the smoothest surfaces . now , what i want to do , in the short time i have , is to try to allow each of you to experience the thrill of revealing nature 's design .
i get to do this all the time , and it 's just incredible .
i want to try to share just a little bit of that with you in this presentation .
the challenge of looking at nature 's designs -- and i 'll tell you the way that we perceive it , and the way we 've used it .
the challenge , of course , is to answer this question : what permits this extraordinary performance of animals that allows them basically to go anywhere ?
and if we could figure that out , how can we implement those designs ?
well , many biologists will tell engineers , and others , organisms have millions of years to get it right ; they 're spectacular ; they can do everything wonderfully well .
so , the answer is bio-mimicry : just copy nature directly .
we know from working on animals that the truth is that 's exactly what you don 't want to do -- because evolution works on the just-good-enough principle , not on a perfecting principle .
and the constraints in building any organism , when you look at it , are really severe . natural technologies have incredible constraints .
think about it . if you were an engineer and i told you that you had to build an automobile , but it had to start off to be this big , then it had to grow to be full size and had to work every step along the way .
or think about the fact that if you build an automobile , i 'll tell you that you also -- inside it -- have to put a factory that allows you to make another automobile .
and you can absolutely never , absolutely never , because of history and the inherited plan , start with a clean slate .
so , organisms have this important history .
really evolution works more like a tinkerer than an engineer .
and this is really important when you begin to look at animals .
instead , we believe you need to be inspired by biology . you need to discover the general principles of nature , and then use these analogies when they 're advantageous .
this is a real challenge to do this , because animals , when you start to really look inside them -- how they work -- appear hopelessly complex . there 's no detailed history of the design plans , you can 't go look it up anywhere .
they have way too many motions for their joints , too many muscles . even the simplest animal we think of , something like an insect , and they have more neurons and connections than you can imagine .
how can you make sense of this ? well , we believed --
and we hypothesized -- that one way animals could work simply , is if the control of their movements tended to be built into their bodies themselves .
what we discovered was that two- , four- , six- and eight-legged animals all produce the same forces on the ground when they move .
they all work like this kangaroo , they bounce .
and they can be modeled by a spring-mass system that we call the spring mass system because we 're biomechanists . it 's actually a pogo stick .
they all produce the pattern of a pogo stick . how is that true ?
well , a human , one of your legs works like two legs of a trotting dog , or works like three legs , together as one , of a trotting insect , or four legs as one of a trotting crab .
and then they alternate in their propulsion , but the patterns are all the same . almost every organism we 've looked at this way -- you 'll see next week , i 'll give you a hint , there 'll be an article coming out that says that really big things like t. rex probably couldn 't do this , but you 'll see that next week .
now , what 's interesting is the animals , then -- we said -- bounce along the vertical plane this way , and in our collaborations with pixar , in " a bug 's life , " we discussed the bipedal nature of the characters of the ants .
and we told them , of course , they move in another plane as well . and they asked us this question . they say , " why model just in the sagittal plane or the vertical plane , when you 're telling us these animals are moving in the horizontal plane ? " this is a good question .
nobody in biology ever modeled it this way .
we took their advice and we modeled the animals moving in the horizontal plane as well . we took their three legs , we collapsed them down as one . we got some of the best mathematicians in the world from princeton to work on this problem .
and we were able to create a model where animals are not only bouncing up and down , but they 're also bouncing side to side at the same time .
and many organisms fit this kind of pattern .
now , why is this important to have this model ?
because it 's very interesting . when you take this model and you perturb it , you give it a push , as it bumps into something , it self-stabilizes , with no brain or no reflexes , just by the structure alone .
it 's a beautiful model . let 's look at the mathematics . that 's enough !
the animals , when you look at them running , appear to be self-stabilizing like this , using basically springy legs . that is , the legs can do computations on their own ; the control algorithms , in a sense , are embedded in the form of the animal itself .
why haven 't we been more inspired by nature and these kinds of discoveries ?
well , i would argue that human technologies are really different from natural technologies , at least they have been so far .
think about the typical kind of robot that you see .
human technologies have tended to be large , flat , with right angles , stiff , made of metal . they have rolling devices and axles . there are very few motors , very few sensors .
whereas nature tends to be small , and curved , and it bends and twists , and has legs instead , and appendages , and has many muscles and many , many sensors .
so it 's a very different design . however , what 's changing , what 's really exciting -- and i 'll show you some of that next -- is that as human technology takes on more of the characteristics of nature , then nature really can become a much more useful teacher .
and here 's one example that 's really exciting .
this is a collaboration we have with stanford .
and they developed this new technique , called shape deposition manufacturing . it 's a technique where they can mix materials together and mold any shape that they like , and put in the material properties .
they can embed sensors and actuators right in the form itself .
for example , here 's a leg : the clear part is stiff , the white part is compliant , and you don 't need any axles there or anything .
it just bends by itself beautifully .
so , you can put those properties in . it inspired them to show off this design by producing a little robot they named sprawl .
our work has also inspired another robot , a biologically inspired bouncing robot , from the university of michigan and mcgill named rhex , for robot hexapod , and this one 's autonomous .
let 's go to the video , and let me show you some of these animals moving
and then some of the simple robots that have been inspired by our discoveries .
here 's what some of you did this morning , although you did it outside , not on a treadmill .
here 's what we do . this is a death 's head cockroach . this is an american cockroach you think you don 't have in your kitchen .
this is an eight-legged scorpion , six-legged ant , forty-four-legged centipede .
now , i said all these animals are sort of working like pogo sticks -- they 're bouncing along as they move . and you can see that in this ghost crab , from the beaches of panama and north carolina .
it goes up to four meters per second when it runs .
it actually leaps into the air , and has aerial phases when it does it , like a horse , and you 'll see it 's bouncing here .
what we discovered is whether you look at the leg of a human like richard , or a cockroach , or a crab , or a kangaroo , the relative leg stiffness of that spring is the same for everything we 've seen so far .
now , what good are springy legs then ? what can they do ?
well , we wanted to see if they allowed the animals to have greater stability and maneuverability .
so , we built a terrain that had obstacles three times the hip height of the animals that we 're looking at . and we were certain they couldn 't do this . and here 's what they did .
the animal ran over it and it didn 't even slow down !
it didn 't decrease its preferred speed at all .
we couldn 't believe that it could do this . it said to us that if you could build a robot with very simple , springy legs , you could make it as maneuverable as any that 's ever been built .
here 's the first example of that . this is the stanford shape deposition manufactured robot , named sprawl .
it has six legs -- there are the tuned , springy legs .
it moves in a gait that an insect uses , and here it is going on the treadmill . now , what 's important about this robot , compared to other robots , is that it can 't see anything , it can 't feel anything , it doesn 't have a brain , yet it can maneuver over these obstacles without any difficulty whatsoever .
it 's this technique of building the properties into the form .
this is a graduate student . this is what he 's doing to his thesis project -- very robust , if a graduate student does that to his thesis project .
this is from mcgill and university of michigan . this is the rhex , making its first outing in a demo .
same principle : it only has six moving parts ,
six motors , but it has springy , tuned legs . it moves in the gait of the insect . it has the middle leg moving in synchrony with the front , and the hind leg on the other side . sort of an alternating tripod , and they can negotiate obstacles just like the animal .
robert full : it 'll go on different surfaces -- here 's sand -- although we haven 't perfected the feet yet , but i 'll talk about that later .
here 's rhex entering the woods .
again , this robot can 't see anything , it can 't feel anything , it has no brain . it 's just working with a tuned mechanical system , with very simple parts , but inspired from the fundamental dynamics of the animal .
rf : here 's it going down a pathway .
i presented this to the jet propulsion lab at nasa , and they said that they had no ability to go down craters to look for ice , and life , ultimately , on mars . and he said -- especially with legged-robots , because they 're way too complicated .
nothing can do that . and i talk next . i showed them this video with the simple design of rhex here . and just to convince them we should go to mars in 2011 , i tinted the video orange just to give them the sense of being on mars .
another reason why animals have extraordinary performance , and can go anywhere , is because they have an effective interaction with the environment . the animal i 'm going to show you , that we studied to look at this , is the gecko .
we have one here and notice its position . it 's holding on .
now i 'm going to challenge you . i 'm going show you a video .
one of the animals is going to be running on the level , and the other one 's going to be running up a wall . which one 's which ?
they 're going at a meter a second . how many think the one on the left is running up the wall ?
okay . the point is it 's really hard to tell , isn 't it ? it 's incredible , we looked at students do this and they couldn 't tell .
they can run up a wall at a meter a second , 15 steps per second , and they look like they 're running on the level . how do they do this ?
it 's just phenomenal . the one on the right was going up the hill .
how do they do this ? they have bizarre toes . they have toes that uncurl like party favors when you blow them out , and then peel off the surface , like tape .
like if we had a piece of tape now , we 'd peel it this way .
they do this with their toes . it 's bizarre ! this peeling inspired irobot -- that we work with -- to build mecho-geckos .
here 's a legged version and a tractor version , or a bulldozer version .
let 's see some of the geckos move with some video , and then i 'll show you a little bit of a clip of the robots .
here 's the gecko running up a vertical surface . there it goes , in real time . there it goes again . obviously , we have to slow this down a little bit .
you can 't use regular cameras .
you have to take 1,000 pictures per second to see this .
and here 's some video at 1,000 frames per second .
now , i want you to look at the animal 's back .
do you see how much it 's bending like that ? we can 't figure that out -- that 's an unsolved mystery . we don 't know how it works .
if you have a son or a daughter that wants to come to berkeley , come to my lab and we 'll figure this out . okay , send them to berkeley because that 's the next thing i want to do . here 's the gecko mill .
it 's a see-through treadmill with a see-through treadmill belt , so we can watch the animal 's feet , and videotape them through the treadmill belt , to see how they move .
here 's the animal that we have here , running on a vertical surface . pick a foot and try to watch a toe , and see if you can see what the animal 's doing .
see it uncurl and then peel these toes .
it can do this in 14 milliseconds . it 's unbelievable .
here are the robots that they inspire , the mecho-geckos from irobot .
first we 'll see the animals toes peeling -- look at that .
and here 's the peeling action of the mecho-gecko . it uses a pressure-sensitive adhesive to do it .
peeling in the animal . peeling in the mecho-gecko -- that allows them climb autonomously . can go on the flat surface , transition to a wall , and then go onto a ceiling .
there 's the bulldozer version . now , it doesn 't use pressure-sensitive glue .
the animal does not use that .
but that 's what we 're limited to , at the moment .
what does the animal do ? the animal has weird toes . and if you look at the toes , they have these little leaves there , and if you blow them up and zoom in , you 'll see that 's there 's little striations in these leaves .
and if you zoom in 270 times , you 'll see it looks like a rug .
and if you blow that up , and zoom in 900 times , you see there are hairs there , tiny hairs . and if you look carefully , those tiny hairs have striations . and if you zoom in on those 30,000 times , you 'll see each hair has split ends .
and if you blow those up , they have these little structures on the end .
the smallest branch of the hairs looks like spatulae , and an animal like that has one billion of these nano-size split ends ,
to get very close to the surface . in fact , there 's the diameter of your hair -- a gecko has two million of these , and each hair has 100 to 1,000 split ends .
think of the contact of that that 's possible .
we were fortunate to work with another group at stanford that built us a special manned sensor , that we were able to measure the force of an individual hair .
here 's an individual hair with a little split end there . when we measured the forces , they were enormous . they were so large that a patch of hairs about this size -- the gecko 's foot could support the weight of a small child , about 40 pounds , easily . now , how do they do it ?
we 've recently discovered this . do they do it by friction ?
no , force is too low . do they do it by electrostatics ?
no , you can change the charge -- they still hold on .
do they do it by interlocking ? that 's kind of a like a velcro-like thing .
no , you can put them on molecular smooth surfaces -- they don 't do it .
how about suction ? they stick on in a vacuum .
how about wet adhesion ? or capillary adhesion ?
they don 't have any glue , and they even stick under water just fine .
if you put their foot under water , they grab on .
how do they do it then ? believe it or not , they grab on by intermolecular forces , by van der waals forces .
you know , you probably had this a long time ago in chemistry , where you had these two atoms , they 're close together , and the electrons are moving around . that tiny force is sufficient to allow them to do that because it 's added up so many times with these small structures .
what we 're doing is , we 're taking that inspiration of the hairs , and with another colleague at berkeley , we 're manufacturing them .
and just recently we 've made a breakthrough , where we now believe we 're going to be able to create the first synthetic , self-cleaning ,
dry adhesive . many companies are interested in this .
we also presented to nike even .
we 'll see where this goes . we were so excited about this that we realized that that small-size scale -- and where everything gets sticky , and gravity doesn 't matter anymore -- we needed to look at ants and their feet , because one of my other colleagues at berkeley has built a six-millimeter silicone robot with legs . but it gets stuck . it doesn 't move very well .
but the ants do , and we 'll figure out why , so that ultimately we 'll make this move . and imagine : you 're going to be able to have swarms of these six-millimeter robots available to run around .
where 's this going ? i think you can see it already .
clearly , the internet is already having eyes and ears , you have web cams and so forth . but it 's going to also have legs and hands .
you 're going to be able to do programmable work through these kinds of robots , so that you can run , fly and swim anywhere . we saw david kelly is at the beginning of that with his fish .
so , in conclusion , i think the message is clear .
if you need a message , if nature 's not enough , if you care about search and rescue , or mine clearance , or medicine , or the various things we 're working on , we must preserve nature 's designs , otherwise these secrets will be lost forever .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / adam _ grosser _ and _ his _ sustainable _ fridge.html
adam grosser talks about a project to build a refrigerator that works without electricity -- to bring the vital tool to villages and clinics worldwide . tweaking some old technology , he 's come up with a system that works .
design , food , global issues , invention , medicine , short talk , technology
285
adam grosser and his sustainable fridge
this is a work in process , based on some comments that were made at ted two years ago about the need for the storage of vaccine .
narrator : on this planet , 1.6 billion people don 't have access to electricity , refrigeration or stored fuels . this is a problem . it impacts : the spread of disease , the storage of food and medicine and the quality of life . so here 's the plan : inexpensive refrigeration that doesn 't use electricity , propane , gas , kerosene or consumables . time for some thermodynamics . and the story of the intermittent absorption refrigerator . adam grosser : so 29 years ago , i had this thermo teacher who talked about absorption and refrigeration .
it 's one of those things that stuck in my head .
it was a lot like the stirling engine : it was cool , but you didn 't know what to do with it .
and it was invented in 1858 , by this guy ferdinand carre , but he couldn 't actually build anything with it because of the tools of the time .
this crazy canadian named powel crosley commercialized this thing called the icyball in 1928 , and it was a really neat idea , and i 'll get to why it didn 't work , but here 's how it works .
there 's two spheres and they 're separated in distance .
one has a working fluid , water and ammonia , and the other is a condenser .
you heat up one side , the hot side .
the ammonia evaporates and it re-condenses in the other side .
you let it cool to room temperature , and then , as the ammonia re-evaporates and combines with the water back on the erstwhile hot side , it creates a powerful cooling effect .
so , it was a great idea that didn 't work at all : it blew up .
because using ammonia you get hugely high pressures if you heated them wrong .
it topped 400 psi . the ammonia was toxic . it sprayed everywhere .
but it was kind of an interesting thought .
so , the great thing about 2006 is there 's a lot of really great computational work you can do .
so , we got the whole thermodynamics department at stanford involved --
a lot of computational fluid dynamics .
we proved that most of the ammonia refrigeration tables are wrong .
we found some non-toxic refrigerants that worked at very low vapor pressures .
brought in a team from the u.k. -- there 's a lot of great refrigeration people , it turned out , in the u.k. -- and built a test rig , and proved that , in fact , we could make a low pressure , non-toxic refrigerator .
so , this is the way it works .
you put it on a cooking fire .
most people have cooking fires in the world , whether it 's camel dung or wood .
it heats up for about 30 minutes , cools for an hour .
put it into a container and it will refrigerate for 24 hours .
it looks like this . this is the fifth prototype . it 's not quite done .
weighs about eight pounds , and this is the way it works . you put it into a 15-liter vessel , about three gallons , and it 'll cool it down to just above freezing -- three degrees above freezing --
for 24 hours in a 30 degree c environment . it 's really cheap .
we think we can build these in high volumes for about 25 dollars , in low volumes for about 40 dollars .
and we think we can make refrigeration something that everybody can have .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / sheryl _ sandberg _ why _ we _ have _ too _ few _ women _ leaders.html
facebook coo sheryl sandberg looks at why a smaller percentage of women than men reach the top of their professions -- and offers 3 powerful pieces of advice to women aiming for the c-suite .
business , education , leadership , technology , women
1040
sheryl sandberg : why we have too few women leaders
so for any of us in this room today , let 's start out by admitting we 're lucky .
we don 't live in the world our mothers lived in , our grandmothers lived in , where career choices for women were so limited .
and if you 're in this room today , most of us grew up in a world where we had basic civil rights ,
and amazingly , we still live in a world where some women don 't have them .
but all that aside , we still have a problem , and it 's a real problem .
and the problem is this : women are not making it to the top of any profession anywhere in the world .
the numbers tell the story quite clearly .
190 heads of state -- nine are women .
of all the people in parliament in the world , 13 percent are women .
in the corporate sector , women at the top , c-level jobs , board seats -- tops out at 15 , 16 percent .
the numbers have not moved since 2002 and are going in the wrong direction .
and even in the non-profit world , a world we sometimes think of as being led by more women , women at the top : 20 percent .
we also have another problem , which is that women face harder choices between professional success and personal fulfillment .
a recent study in the u.s. showed that , of married senior managers , two-thirds of the married men had children and only one-third of the married women had children .
a couple of years ago , i was in new york , and i was pitching a deal , and i was in one of those fancy new york private equity offices you can picture .
and i 'm in the meeting -- it 's about a three-hour meeting -- and two hours in , there kind of needs to be that bio break , and everyone stands up , and the partner running the meeting starts looking really embarrassed .
and i realized he doesn 't know where the women 's room is in his office .
so i start looking around for moving boxes , figuring they just moved in , but i don 't see any .
and so i said , " did you just move into this office ? "
and he said , " no , we 've been here about a year . "
and i said , " are you telling me that i am the only woman to have pitched a deal in this office in a year ? "
and he looked at me , and he said , " yeah . or maybe you 're the only one who had to go to the bathroom . "
so the question is , how are we going to fix this ?
how do we change these numbers at the top ?
how do we make this different ?
i want to start out by saying , i talk about this -- about keeping women in the workforce -- because i really think that 's the answer .
in the high-income part of our workforce , in the people who end up at the top -- fortune 500 ceo jobs , or the equivalent in other industries -- the problem , i am convinced , is that women are dropping out .
now people talk about this a lot , and they talk about things like flextime and mentoring and programs companies should have to train women .
i want to talk about none of that today , even though that 's all really important .
today i want to focus on what we can do as individuals .
what are the messages we need to tell ourselves ?
what are the messages we tell the women who work with and for us ?
what are the messages we tell our daughters ?
now , at the outset , i want to be very clear that this speech comes with no judgments .
i don 't have the right answer . i don 't even have it for myself .
i left san francisco , where i live , on monday , and i was getting on the plane for this conference .
and my daughter , who 's three , when i dropped her off at preschool , did that whole hugging-the-leg , crying , " mommy , don 't get on the plane " thing .
this is hard . i feel guilty sometimes .
i know no women , whether they 're at home or whether they 're in the workforce , who don 't feel that sometimes .
so i 'm not saying that staying in the workforce is the right thing for everyone .
my talk today is about what the messages are if you do want to stay in the workforce ,
and i think there are three .
one , sit at the table .
two , make your partner a real partner .
and three , don 't leave before you leave .
number one : sit at the table .
just a couple weeks ago at facebook , we hosted a very senior government official , and he came in to meet with senior execs from around silicon valley .
and everyone kind of sat at the table .
and then he had these two women who were traveling with him who were pretty senior in his department ,
and i kind of said to them , " sit at the table . come on , sit at the table , "
and they sat on the side of the room .
when i was in college my senior year , i took a course called european intellectual history . don 't you love that kind of thing from college ? i wish i could do that now .
and i took it with my roommate , carrie , who was then a brilliant literary student -- and went on to be a brilliant literary scholar -- and my brother -- smart guy , but a water-polo-playing pre-med , who was a sophomore .
the three of us take this class together .
and then carrie reads all the books in the original greek and latin , goes to all the lectures . i read all the books in english and go to most of the lectures .
my brother is kind of busy . he reads one book of 12 and goes to a couple of lectures , marches himself up to our room a couple days before the exam to get himself tutored .
the three of us go to the exam together , and we sit down .
and we sit there for three hours -- and our little blue notebooks -- yes , i 'm that old .
and we walk out , and we look at each other , and we say , " how did you do ? "
and carrie says , " boy , i feel like i didn 't really draw out the main point on the hegelian dialectic . "
and i say , " god , i really wish i had really connected john locke 's theory of property with the philosophers who follow . "
and my brother says , " i got the top grade in the class . "
" you got the top grade in the class ?
you don 't know anything . "
the problem with these stories is that they show what the data shows : women systematically underestimate their own abilities .
if you test men and women , and you ask them questions on totally objective criteria like gpas , men get it wrong slightly high , and women get it wrong slightly low .
women do not negotiate for themselves in the workforce .
a study in the last two years of people entering the workforce out of college showed that 57 percent of boys entering , or men , i guess , are negotiating their first salary , and only seven percent of women .
and most importantly , men attribute their success to themselves , and women attribute it to other external factors .
if you ask men why they did a good job , they 'll say , " i 'm awesome .
obviously . why are you even asking ? "
if you ask women why they did a good job , what they 'll say is someone helped them , they got lucky , they worked really hard .
why does this matter ?
boy , it matters a lot because no one gets to the corner office by sitting on the side , not at the table ,
and no one gets the promotion if they don 't think they deserve their success ,
or they don 't even understand their own success .
i wish the answer were easy .
i wish i could just go tell all the young women i work for , all these fabulous women , " believe in yourself and negotiate for yourself .
own your own success . "
i wish i could tell that to my daughter .
but it 's not that simple .
because what the data shows , above all else , is one thing , which is that success and likeability are positively correlated for men and negatively correlated for women .
and everyone 's nodding , because we all know this to be true .
there 's a really good study that shows this really well .
there 's a famous harvard business school study on a woman named heidi roizen .
and she 's an operator in a company in silicon valley , and she uses her contacts to become a very successful venture capitalist .
in 2002 -- not so long ago -- a professor who was then at columbia university took that case and made it howard roizen .
and he gave the case out , both of them , to two groups of students .
he changed exactly one word : " heidi " to " howard . "
but that one word made a really big difference .
he then surveyed the students ,
and the good news was the students , both men and women , thought heidi and howard were equally competent ,
and that 's good .
the bad news was that everyone liked howard .
he 's a great guy . you want to work for him . you want to spend the day fishing with him .
but heidi ? not so sure .
she 's a little out for herself . she 's a little political .
you 're not sure you 'd want to work for her .
this is the complication .
we have to tell our daughters and our colleagues , we have to tell ourselves to believe we got the a , to reach for the promotion , to sit at the table ,
and we have to do it in a world where , for them , there are sacrifices they will make for that , even though for their brothers , there are not .
the saddest thing about all of this is that it 's really hard to remember this .
and i 'm about to tell a story which is truly embarrassing for me , but i think important .
i gave this talk at facebook not so long ago to about 100 employees ,
and a couple hours later , there was a young woman who works there sitting outside my little desk , and she wanted to talk to me .
i said , okay , and she sat down , and we talked .
and she said , " i learned something today .
i learned that i need to keep my hand up . "
i said , " what do you mean ? "
she said , " well , you 're giving this talk , and you said you were going to take two more questions .
and i had my hand up with lots of other people , and you took two more questions .
and i put my hand down , and i noticed all the women put their hand down ,
and then you took more questions , only from the men . "
and i thought to myself , wow , if it 's me -- who cares about this , obviously -- giving this talk -- and during this talk , i can 't even notice that the men 's hands are still raised , and the women 's hands are still raised , how good are we as managers of our companies and our organizations at seeing that the men are reaching for opportunities more than women ?
we 've got to get women to sit at the table .
message number two : make your partner a real partner .
i 've become convinced that we 've made more progress in the workforce than we have in the home .
the data shows this very clearly .
if a woman and a man work full-time and have a child , the woman does twice the amount of housework the man does , and the woman does three times the amount of childcare the man does .
so she 's got three jobs or two jobs , and he 's got one .
who do you think drops out when someone needs to be home more ?
the causes of this are really complicated , and i don 't have time to go into them .
and i don 't think sunday football-watching and general laziness is the cause .
i think the cause is more complicated .
i think , as a society , we put more pressure on our boys to succeed than we do on our girls .
i know men that stay home and work in the home to support wives with careers ,
and it 's hard .
when i go to the mommy-and-me stuff and i see the father there , i notice that the other mommies don 't play with him .
and that 's a problem , because we have to make it as important a job , because it 's the hardest job in the world to work inside the home , for people of both genders , if we 're going to even things out and let women stay in the workforce .
studies show that households with equal earning and equal responsibility also have half the divorce rate .
and if that wasn 't good enough motivation for everyone out there , they also have more -- how shall i say this on this stage ? -- they know each other more in the biblical sense as well .
message number three : don 't leave before you leave .
i think there 's a really deep irony to the fact that actions women are taking -- and i see this all the time -- with the objective of staying in the workforce actually lead to their eventually leaving .
here 's what happens : we 're all busy . everyone 's busy . a woman 's busy .
and she starts thinking about having a child ,
and from the moment she starts thinking about having a child , she starts thinking about making room for that child .
" how am i going to fit this into everything else i 'm doing ? "
and literally from that moment , she doesn 't raise her hand anymore , she doesn 't look for a promotion , she doesn 't take on the new project , she doesn 't say , " me . i want to do that . "
she starts leaning back .
the problem is that -- let 's say she got pregnant that day , that day -- nine months of pregnancy , three months of maternity leave , six months to catch your breath -- fast-forward two years , more often -- and as i 've seen it -- women start thinking about this way earlier -- when they get engaged , when they get married , when they start thinking about trying to have a child , which can take a long time .
one woman came to see me about this , and i kind of looked at her -- she looked a little young .
and i said , " so are you and your husband thinking about having a baby ? "
and she said , " oh no , i 'm not married . "
she didn 't even have a boyfriend .
i said , " you 're thinking about this just way too early . "
but the point is that what happens once you start kind of quietly leaning back ?
everyone who 's been through this -- and i 'm here to tell you , once you have a child at home , your job better be really good to go back , because it 's hard to leave that kid at home -- your job needs to be challenging .
it needs to be rewarding .
you need to feel like you 're making a difference .
and if two years ago you didn 't take a promotion and some guy next to you did , if three years ago you stopped looking for new opportunities , you 're going to be bored because you should have kept your foot on the gas pedal .
don 't leave before you leave .
stay in .
keep your foot on the gas pedal , until the very day you need to leave to take a break for a child -- and then make your decisions .
don 't make decisions too far in advance , particularly ones you 're not even conscious you 're making .
my generation really , sadly , is not going to change the numbers at the top .
they 're just not moving .
we are not going to get to where 50 percent of the population -- in my generation , there will not be 50 percent of [ women ] at the top of any industry .
but i 'm hopeful that future generations can .
i think a world that was run where half of our countries and half of our companies were run by women , would be a better world .
and it 's not just because people would know where the women 's bathrooms are , even though that would be very helpful .
i think it would be a better world .
i have two children .
i have a five-year-old son and a two-year-old daughter .
i want my son to have a choice to contribute fully in the workforce or at home , and i want my daughter to have the choice to not just succeed , but to be liked for her accomplishments .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / thomas _ goetz _ it _ s _ time _ to _ redesign _ medical _ data.html
your medical chart : it 's hard to access , impossible to read -- and full of information that could make you healthier if you just knew how to use it . at tedmed , thomas goetz looks at medical data , making a bold call to redesign it and get more insight from it .
business , design , health , medicine , science , technology
1060
thomas goetz : it 's time to redesign medical data
i 'm going to be talking to you about how we can tap a really underutilized resource in health care , which is the patient , or , as i like to use the scientific term , people .
because we are all patients , we are all people .
even doctors are patients at some point .
so i want to talk about that as an opportunity that we really have failed to engage with very well in this country and , in fact , worldwide .
if you want to get at the big part -- i mean from a public health level , where my training is -- you 're looking at behavioral issues . you 're looking at things where people are actually given information , and they 're not following through with it .
it 's a problem that manifests itself in diabetes , obesity , many forms of heart disease , even some forms of cancer -- when you think of smoking .
those are all behaviors where people know what they 're supposed to do .
they know what they 're supposed to be doing ,
but they 're not doing it .
now behavior change is something that is a long-standing problem in medicine .
it goes all the way back to aristotle .
and doctors hate it , right ?
i mean , they complain about it all the time .
we talk about it in terms of engagement , or non-compliance . when people don 't take their pills , when people don 't follow doctors ' orders --
these are behavior problems .
but for as much as clinical medicine agonizes over behavior change , there 's not a lot of work done in terms of trying to fix that problem .
so the crux of it comes down to this notion of decision-making -- giving information to people in a form that doesn 't just educate them or inform them , but actually leads them to make better decisions , better choices in their lives .
one part of medicine , though , has faced the problem of behavior change pretty well , and that 's dentistry .
dentistry might seem -- and i think it is -- many dentists would have to acknowledge it 's somewhat of a mundane backwater of medicine .
not a lot of cool , sexy stuff happening in dentistry .
but they have really taken this problem of behavior change
and solved it .
it 's the one great preventive health success we have in our health care system .
people brush and floss their teeth .
they don 't do it as much as they should , but they do it .
so i 'm going to talk about one experiment that a few dentists in connecticut cooked up about 30 years ago .
so this is an old experiment , but it 's a really good one , because it was very simple , so it 's an easy story to tell .
so these connecticut dentists decided that they wanted to get people to brush their teeth and floss their teeth more often ,
and they were going to use one variable : they wanted to scare them .
they wanted to tell them how bad it would be if they didn 't brush and floss their teeth .
they had a big patient population .
they divided them up into two groups .
they had a low-fear population , where they basically gave them a 13-minute presentation , all based in science , but told them that , if you didn 't brush and floss your teeth , you could get gum disease . if you get gum disease , you will lose your teeth , but you 'll get dentures , and it won 't be that bad .
so that was the low-fear group .
the high-fear group , they laid it on really thick .
they showed bloody gums . they showed puss oozing out from between their teeth . they told them that their teeth were going to fall out . they said that they could have infections that would spread from their jaws to other parts of their bodies , and ultimately , yes , they would lose their teeth .
they would get dentures , and if you got dentures , you weren 't going to be able to eat corn-on-the-cob , you weren 't going to be able to eat apples , you weren 't going to be able to eat steak . you 'll eat mush for the rest of your life .
so go brush and floss your teeth .
that was the message . that was the experiment .
now they measured one other variable .
they wanted to capture one other variable , which was the patients ' sense of efficacy .
this was the notion of whether the patients felt that they actually would go ahead and brush and floss their teeth .
so they asked them at the beginning , " do you think you 'll actually be able to stick with this program ? "
and the people who said , " yeah , yeah . i 'm pretty good about that , " they were characterized as high efficacy , and the people who said , " eh , i never get around to brushing and flossing as much as i should , " they were characterized as low efficacy .
so the upshot was this .
the upshot of this experiment was that fear was not really a primary driver the people who brushed and flossed their teeth were not necessarily the people who were really scared about what would happen -- it 's the people who simply felt that they had the capacity to change their behavior .
so fear showed up as not really the driver . it was the sense of efficacy .
so i want to isolate this , because it was a great observation -- 30 years ago , right , 30 years ago -- and it 's one that 's laid fallow in research . it was a notion that really came out of albert bandura 's work , who studied whether people could get a sense of empowerment .
the notion of efficacy basically boils down to one -- that if somebody believes that they have the capacity to change their behavior .
in health care terms , you could characterize this as whether or not somebody feels that they see a path towards better health , that they can actually see their way towards getting better health ,
and that 's a very important notion .
it 's an amazing notion .
we don 't really know how to manipulate it , though , that well .
except , maybe we do .
so fear doesn 't work , right ? fear doesn 't work .
and this is a great example of how we haven 't learned that lesson at all .
this is a campaign from the american diabetes association .
this is still the way we 're communicating messages about health .
i mean , i showed my three-year-old this slide last night , and he 's like , " papa , why is an ambulance in these people 's homes ? "
and i had to explain , " they 're trying to scare people . "
and i don 't know if it works .
now here 's what does work : personalized information works .
again , bandura recognized this years ago , decades ago .
when you give people specific information about their health , where they stand , and where they want to get to , where they might get to , that path , that notion of a path -- that tends to work for behavior change .
so let me just spool it out a little bit .
so you start with personalized data , personalized information that comes from an individual , and then you need to connect it to their lives .
you need to connect it to their lives , hopefully not in a fear-based way , but one that they understand .
okay , i know where i sit . i know where i 'm situated .
and that doesn 't just work for me in terms of abstract numbers -- this overload of health information that we 're inundated with . but it actually hits home .
it 's not just hitting us in our heads ; it 's hitting us in our hearts .
there 's an emotional connection to information because it 's from us .
that information then needs to be connected to choices , needs to be connected to a range of options , directions that we might go to -- trade-offs , benefits .
finally , we need to be presented with a clear point of action .
we need to connect the information always with the action , and then that action feeds back into different information , and it creates , of course , a feedback loop .
now this is a very well-observed and well-established notion for behavior change .
but the problem is that things -- in the upper-right corner there -- personalized data , it 's been pretty hard to come by .
it 's a difficult and expensive commodity , until now .
so i 'm going to give you an example , a very simple example of how this works .
so we 've all seen these . these are the " your speed limit " signs .
you 've seen them all around , especially these days as radars are cheaper .
and here 's how they work in the feedback loop .
so you start with the personalized data where the speed limit on the road that you are at that point is 25 , and , of course , you 're going faster than that .
we always are . we 're always going above the speed limit .
the choice in this case is pretty simple .
we either keep going fast , or we slow down .
we should probably slow down , and that point of action is probably now .
we should take our foot off the pedal right now ,
and generally we do . these things are shown to be pretty effective in terms of getting people to slow down .
they reduce speeds by about five to 10 percent .
they last for about five miles , in which case we put our foot back on the pedal . but it works , and it even has some health repercussions .
your blood pressure might drop a little bit .
maybe there 's fewer accidents , so there 's public health benefits .
but by and large , this is a feedback loop that 's so nifty and too rare .
because in health care , most health care , the data is very removed from the action .
it 's very difficult to line things up so neatly .
but we have an opportunity .
so i want to talk about , i want to shift now to think about how we deliver health information in this country , how we actually get information .
this is a pharmaceutical ad .
actually , it 's a spoof . it 's not a real pharmaceutical ad .
nobody 's had the brilliant idea of calling their drug havidol quite yet .
but it looks completely right .
so it 's exactly the way we get health information and pharmaceutical information , and it just sounds perfect .
and then we turn the page of the magazine , and we see this --
now this is the page the fda requires pharmaceutical companies to put into their ads , or to follow their ads ,
and to me , this is one of the cynical exercises in medicine .
because we know .
who among us would actually say that people read this ?
and who among us would actually say that people who do try to read this actually get anything out of it ?
this is a bankrupt effort at communicating health information .
there is no good faith in this .
so this is a different approach .
this is an approach that has been developed by a couple researchers at dartmouth medical school , lisa schwartz and steven woloshin .
and they created this thing called the " drug facts box . "
they took inspiration from , of all things , cap 'n crunch .
they went to the nutritional information box and saw that what works for cereal , works for our food , actually helps people understand what 's in their food .
god forbid we should use that same standard that we make cap 'n crunch live by and bring it to drug companies .
so let me just walk through this quickly .
it says very clearly what the drug is for , specifically who it is good for , so you can start to personalize your understanding of whether the information is relevant to you or whether the drug is relevant to you .
you can understand exactly what the benefits are .
it isn 't this kind of vague promise that it 's going to work no matter what , but you get the statistics for how effective it is .
and finally , you understand what those choices are .
you can start to unpack the choices involved because of the side effects .
every time you take a drug , you 're walking into a possible side effect .
so it spells those out in very clean terms ,
and that works .
so i love this . i love that drug facts box .
and so i was thinking about , what 's an opportunity that i could have to help people understand information ?
what 's another latent body of information that 's out there that people are really not putting to use ?
and so i came up with this : lab test results .
blood test results are this great source of information .
they 're packed with information .
they 're just not for us . they 're not for people . they 're not for patients .
they go right to doctors .
and god forbid -- i think many doctors , if you really asked them , they don 't really understand all this stuff either .
this is the worst presented information .
you ask tufte , and he would say , " yes , this is the absolute worst presentation of information possible . "
what we did at wired was we went , and i got our graphic design department to re-imagine these lab reports .
so that 's what i want to walk you through .
so this is the general blood work before , and this is the after , this is what we came up with .
the after takes what was four pages -- that previous slide was actually the first of four pages of data that 's just the general blood work .
it goes on and on and on , all these values , all these numbers you don 't know .
this is our one-page summary .
we use the notion of color .
it 's an amazing notion that color could be used .
so on the top-level you have your overall results , the things that might jump out at you from the fine print .
then you can drill down and understand how actually we put your level in context , and we use color to illustrate exactly where your value falls .
in this case , this patient is slightly at risk of diabetes because of their glucose level .
likewise , you can go over your lipids and , again , understand what your overall cholesterol level is and then break down into the hdl and the ldl if you so choose .
but again , always using color and personalized proximity to that information .
all those other values , all those pages and pages of values that are full of nothing , we summarize .
we tell you that you 're okay , you 're normal .
but you don 't have to wade through it . you don 't have to go through the junk .
and then we do two other very important things that kind of help fill in this feedback loop :
we help people understand in a little more detail what these values are and what they might indicate .
and then we go a further step -- we tell them what they can do .
we give them some insight into what choices they can make , what actions they can take .
so that 's our general blood work test .
then we went to crp test .
in this case , it 's a sin of omission .
they have this huge amount of space , and they don 't use it for anything , so we do .
now the crp test is often done following a cholesterol test , or in conjunction with a cholesterol test .
so we take the bold step of putting the cholesterol information on the same page , which is the way the doctor is going to evaluate it .
so we thought the patient might actually want to know the context as well .
it 's a protein that shows up when your blood vessels might be inflamed , which might be a risk for heart disease .
what you 're actually measuring is spelled out in clean language .
then we use the information that 's already in the lab report .
we use the person 's age and their gender to start to fill in the personalized risks .
so we start to use the data we have to run a very simple calculation that 's on all sorts of online calculators to get a sense of what the actual risk is .
the last one i 'll show you is a psa test .
here 's the before , and here 's the after .
now a lot of our effort on this one -- as many of you probably know , a psa test is a very controversial test .
it 's used to test for prostate cancer , but there are all sorts of reasons why your prostate might be enlarged .
and so we spent a good deal of our time indicating that .
we again personalized the risks .
so this patient is in their 50s , so we can actually give them a very precise estimate of what their risk for prostate cancer is .
in this case it 's about 25 percent , based on that .
and then again , the follow-up actions .
so our cost for this was less than 10,000 dollars , all right .
that 's what wired magazine spent on this .
why is wired magazine doing this ?
quest diagnostics and labcorp , the two largest lab testing companies -- last year , they made profits of over 700 million dollars and over 500 million dollars respectively .
now this is not a problem of resources ; this is a problem of incentives .
we need to recognize that the target of this information should not be the doctor , should not be the insurance company . it should be the patient .
it 's the person who actually , in the end , is going to be having to change their lives and then start adopting new behaviors .
this is information that is incredibly powerful .
it 's an incredibly powerful catalyst to change .
but we 're not using it . it 's just sitting there .
it 's being lost .
so i want to just offer four questions that every patient should ask , because i don 't actually expect people to start developing these lab test reports .
but you can create your own feedback loop .
anybody can create their feedback loop by asking these simple questions : can i have my results ?
and the only acceptable answer is -- -- yes .
what does this mean ? help me understand what the data is .
what are my options ? what choices are now on the table ?
and then , what 's next ?
how do i integrate this information into the longer course of my life ?
so i want to wind up by just showing that people have the capacity to understand this information .
this is not beyond the grasp of ordinary people .
you do not need to have the education level of people in this room .
ordinary people are capable of understanding this information , if we only go to the effort of presenting it to them in a form that they can engage with .
and engagement is essential here , because it 's not just giving them information ; it 's giving them an opportunity to act .
that 's what engagement is . it 's different from compliance .
it works totally different from the way we talk about behavior in medicine today .
and this information is out there .
i 've been talking today about latent information , all this information that exists in the system that we 're not putting to use .
but there are all sorts of other bodies of information that are coming online ,
and we need to recognize the capacity of this information to engage people , to help people and to change the course of their lives .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / sirena _ huang _ dazzles _ on _ violin.html
violinist sirena huang gives a technically brilliant and emotionally nuanced performance . in a charming interlude , the 11-year-old praises the timeless design of her instrument .
featured , arts , entertainment , music , performance , prodigy , violin , wunderkind
45
sirena huang dazzles on violin
hi everyone . i 'm sirena .
i 'm 11 years old and from connecticut .
well , i 'm not really sure why i 'm here .
i mean , what does this have to do with technology , entertainment and design ?
well , i count my ipod , cellphone and computer as technology but this has nothing to do with that .
so i did a little research on it .
well , this is what i found .
of course , i hope i can memorize it .
the violin is basically made of a wood box and four main strings .
by playing the string , the string vibrates
and produces a sound wave .
sound passes through a piece of wood called a bridge and goes down to the wood box and gets amplified but ... let me think . okay . on the other hand by placing your finger in a different position on the fingerboard it changes the string length , that changes the frequency of the sound wave .
oh , my gosh !
okay . this is sort of a technology but i can call it a 16th-century technology . but actually , the most fascinating thing that i found was that even the audio system or wave transmission nowadays are still basically based on the same principle of producing and projecting sound .
isn 't that cool ?
design -- i love its design .
i remember when i was little my mom asked me , would you like to play the violin or the piano ?
i looked at that giant monster and said to myself -- i am not going to lock myself on that bench the whole day .
this is small and lightweight . i can play from standing , sitting or walking .
and you know what ?
the best of all is that if i don 't want to practice , i can hide it .
the violin is very beautiful .
some people relate it as the shape of a lady but , whether you like it or not , it 's been so for more than 400 years , unlike modern stuff that easily looks dated .
but i think it 's very personal and unique that , although each violin looks pretty similar , that no two violins sound the same .
even from the same maker or based on the same model .
entertainment -- i love the entertainment , but actually , the instrument itself isn 't very entertaining .
i mean , when i first got my violin and tried to play around , it was actually , really bad because it didn 't sound like the way i 'd heard from other kids -- so horrible and so scratchy -- so it wasn 't entertaining at all .
but besides , my brother found this very funny .
yuk , yuk , yuk .
a few years later i heard a joke about the greatest violinist , jascha heifetz . after mr. heifetz 's concert a lady came over and complimented , " oh , mr. heifetz , your violin sounded so great tonight . "
and mr. heifetz was a very cool person , so he picked up his violin and said , " funny , i don 't hear anything . "
and now , i realize that as the musician , we human beings , we have a great mind , artistic heart and skill that can change the 16th-century technology and a legendary design to a wonderful entertainment . now , i know why i 'm here .
at first i thought i was just going to be here to perform , but unexpectedly , i learned and enjoyed much more .
but ... although some of them were quite up there for me .
like the multi-dimension stuff .
i mean , honestly , i 'd be happy enough if i can actually get my two dimension correct in school .
but actually , the most impressive thing to me is that ... well , actually , i would also like to stand this for all children is to say , thank you , to all adults for actually caring for us a lot and to make our future world much better .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / michael _ pollan _ gives _ a _ plant _ s _ eye _ view.html
what if human consciousness isn 't the end-all and be-all of darwinism ? what if we are all just pawns in corn 's clever strategy game to rule the earth ? author michael pollan asks us to see the world from a plant 's-eye view .
animals , business , cooperation , culture , evolution , food , global issues , science
214
michael pollan gives a plant 's-eye view
it 's a simple idea about nature . i want to say a word for nature because we haven 't talked that much about it the last couple days .
i want to say a word for the soil and the bees and the plants and the animals , and tell you about a tool , a very simple tool that i have found .
although it 's really nothing more than a literary conceit ; it 's not a technology . it 's very powerful for , i think , changing our relationship to the natural world and to the other species on whom we depend .
and that tool is very simply , as chris suggested , looking at us and the world from the plants ' or the animals ' point of view .
it 's not my idea , other people have hit on it , but i 've tried to take it to some new places .
let me tell you where i got it .
like a lot of my ideas , like a lot of the tools i use , i found it in the garden ; i 'm a very devoted gardener .
and there was a day about seven years ago : i was planting potatoes ,
it was the first week of may --
this is new england , when the apple trees are just vibrating with bloom ;
they 're just white clouds above .
i was here , planting my chunks , cutting up potatoes and planting it ,
and the bees were working on this tree ;
bumblebees , just making this thing vibrate . and one of the things i really like about gardening is that it doesn 't take all your concentration ,
you really can 't get hurt -- it 's not like woodworking --
and you have plenty of kind of mental space for speculation .
and the question i asked myself that afternoon in the garden , working alongside that bumblebee , was : what did i and that bumblebee have in common ?
how was our role in this garden similar and different ?
and i realized we actually had quite a bit in common :
both of us were disseminating the genes of one species and not another ,
and both of us -- probably , if i can imagine the bee 's point of view -- thought we were calling the shots .
i had decided what kind of potato i wanted to plant --
i had picked my yukon gold or yellow finn , or whatever it was --
and i had summoned those genes from a seed catalog across the country , brought it , and i was planting it .
and that bee , no doubt , assumed that it had decided , " i 'm going for that apple tree , i 'm going for that blossom , i 'm going to get the nectar and i 'm going to leave . "
we have a grammar that suggests that 's who we are ; that we are sovereign subjects in nature , the bee as well as me .
i plant the potatoes , i weed the garden , i domesticate the species .
but that day , it occurred to me : what if that grammar is nothing more than a self-serving conceit ?
because , of course , the bee thinks he 's in charge or she 's in charge ,
but we know better .
we know that what 's going on between the bee and that flower is that bee has been cleverly manipulated by that flower .
and when i say manipulated , i 'm talking about in a darwinian sense , right ?
i mean it has evolved a very specific set of traits -- color , scent , flavor , pattern -- that has lured that bee in .
and the bee has been cleverly fooled into taking the nectar , and also picking up some powder on its leg ,
and going off to the next blossom .
the bee is not calling the shots .
and i realized then , i wasn 't either .
i had been seduced by that potato and not another into planting its -- into spreading its genes , giving it a little bit more habitat .
and that 's when i got the idea , which was , " well , what would happen if we kind of looked at us from this point of view of these other species who are working on us ? "
and agriculture suddenly appeared to me not as an invention , not as a human technology , but as a co-evolutionary development in which a group of very clever species , mostly edible grasses , had exploited us , figured out how to get us to basically deforest the world .
the competition of grasses , right ?
and suddenly everything looked different .
and suddenly mowing the lawn that day was a completely different experience .
i had thought always -- and in fact , had written this in my first book ; this was a book about gardening -- that lawns were nature under culture 's boot ,
that they were totalitarian landscapes ,
and that when we mowed them we were cruelly suppressing the species and never letting it set seed or die or have sex .
and that 's what the lawn was .
but then i realized , " no , this is exactly what the grasses want us to do .
i 'm a dupe . i 'm a dupe of the lawns , whose goal in life is to outcompete the trees , who they compete with for sunlight . "
and so by getting us to mow the lawn , we keep the trees from coming back , which in new england happens very , very quickly .
so i started looking at things this way and wrote a whole book about it called " the botany of desire . "
and i realized that in the same way you can look at a flower and deduce all sorts of interesting things about the taste and the desires of bees -- that they like sweetness , that they like this color and not that color , that they like symmetry --
what could we find out about ourselves by doing the same thing ?
that a certain kind of potato , a certain kind of drug , a sativa-indica cannabis cross has something to say about us .
and that , wouldn 't this be kind of an interesting way to look at the world ?
now , the test of any idea -- i said it was a literary conceit -- is what does it get us ?
and when you 're talking about nature , which is really my subject as a writer , how does it meet the aldo leopold test ?
which is , does it make us better citizens of the biotic community ?
get us to do things that leads to the support and perpetuation of the biota , rather than its destruction ?
and i would submit that this idea does this .
so , let me go through what you gain when you look at the world this way , besides some entertaining insights about human desire .
as an intellectual matter , looking at the world from other species ' points of view helps us deal with this weird anomaly ,
which is -- and this is in the realm of intellectual history -- which is that we have this darwinian revolution 150 years ago ... ugh . mini-me . we have this intellectual , this darwinian revolution in which , thanks to darwin , we figured out we are just one species among many ;
evolution is working on us the same way it 's working on all the others ;
we are acted upon as well as acting ;
we are really in the fiber , the fabric of life .
but the weird thing is , we have not absorbed this lesson 150 years later ;
none of us really believes this .
we are still cartesians -- the children of descartes -- who believe that subjectivity , consciousness , sets us apart ;
that the world is divided into subjects and objects ;
that there is nature on one side , culture on another .
as soon as you start seeing things from the plant 's point of view or the animal 's point of view , you realize that the real literary conceit is that --
is the idea that nature is opposed to culture ,
the idea that consciousness is everything --
and that 's another very important thing it does .
looking at the world from other species ' points of view is a cure for the disease of human self-importance .
you suddenly realize that consciousness -- which we value and we consider the crowning achievement of nature , human consciousness -- is really just another set of tools for getting along in the world .
and it 's kind of natural that we would think it was the best tool .
but , you know , there 's a comedian who said , " well , who 's telling me that consciousness is so good and so important ?
well , consciousness . "
so when you look at the plants , you realize that there are other tools and they 're just as interesting .
i 'll give you two examples , also from the garden :
lima beans . you know what a lima bean does when it 's attacked by spider mites ?
it releases this volatile chemical that goes out into the world and summons another species of mite that comes in and attacks the spider mite , defending the lima bean .
so what plants have -- while we have consciousness , tool making , language , they have biochemistry .
and they have perfected that to a degree far beyond what we can imagine .
their complexity , their sophistication , is something to really marvel at ,
and i think it 's really the scandal of the human genome project .
you know , we went into it thinking , 40,000 or 50,000 human genes
and we came out with only 23,000 .
just to give you grounds for comparison , rice : 35,000 genes .
so who 's the more sophisticated species ?
well , we 're all equally sophisticated .
we 've been evolving just as long , just along different paths .
so , cure for self-importance , way to sort of make us feel the darwinian idea .
and that 's really what i do as a writer , as a storyteller , is try to make people feel what we know and tell stories that actually help us think ecologically .
now , the other use of this is practical .
and i 'm going to take you to a farm right now ,
because i used this idea to develop my understanding of the food system and what i learned , in fact , is that we are all , now , being manipulated by corn .
and the talk you heard about ethanol earlier today , to me , is the final triumph of corn over good sense .
it is part of corn 's scheme for world domination .
and you will see , the amount of corn planted this year will be up dramatically from last year and there will be that much more habitat because we 've decided ethanol is going to help us .
so it helped me understand industrial agriculture , which of course is a cartesian system .
it 's based on this idea that we bend other species to our will and that we are in charge , and that we create these factories and we have these technological inputs and we get the food out of it or the fuel or whatever we want .
let me take you to a very different kind of farm .
this is a farm in the shenandoah valley of virginia .
i went looking for a farm where these ideas about looking at things from the species ' point of view are actually implemented ,
and i found it in a man . the farmer 's name is joel salatin . and i spent a week as an apprentice on his farm ,
and i took away from this some of the most hopeful news about our relationship to nature that i 've ever come across in 25 years of writing about nature .
and that is this :
the farm is called polyface , which means ... the idea is he 's got six different species of animals , as well as some plants , growing in this very elaborate symbiotic arrangement .
it 's permaculture , those of you who know a little bit about this , such that the cows and the pigs and the sheep and the turkeys and the ... what else does he have ?
all the six different species -- rabbits , actually -- are all performing ecological services for one another , such that the manure of one is the lunch for the other and they take care of pests for one another .
it 's a very elaborate and beautiful dance , but i 'm going to just give you a close-up on one piece of it ,
and that is the relationship between his cattle and his chickens , his laying hens .
and i 'll show you , if you take this approach , what you get , ok ?
and this is a lot more than growing food , as you 'll see ;
this is a different way to think about nature and a way to get away from the zero-sum notion , the cartesian idea that either nature 's winning or we 're winning , and that for us to get what we want , nature is diminished .
so , one day , cattle in a pen .
the only technology involved here is this cheap electric fencing : relatively new , hooked to a car battery ;
even i could carry a quarter-acre paddock , set it up in 15 minutes .
cows graze one day . they move , ok ?
they graze everything down , intensive grazing .
he waits three days ,
and then we towed in something called the eggmobile .
the eggmobile is a very rickety contraption --
it looks like a prairie schooner made out of boards -- but it houses 350 chickens .
he tows this into the paddock three days later and opens the gangplank , turns them down , and 350 hens come streaming down the gangplank -- clucking , gossiping as chickens will --
and they make a beeline for the cow patties .
and what they 're doing is very interesting :
they 're digging through the cow patties for the maggots , the grubs , the larvae of flies .
and the reason he 's waited three days is because he knows that on the fourth day or the fifth day , those larvae will hatch and he 'll have a huge fly problem .
but he waits that long to grow them as big and juicy and tasty as he can
because they are the chickens ' favorite form of protein .
so the chickens do their kind of little breakdance and they 're pushing around the manure to get at the grubs , and in the process they 're spreading the manure out .
very useful second ecosystem service .
and third , while they 're in this paddock they are , of course , defecating madly and their very nitrogenous manure is fertilizing this field .
they then move out to the next one , and in the course of just a few weeks , the grass just enters this blaze of growth . and within four or five weeks , he can do it again .
he can graze again , he can cut , he can bring in another species , like the lambs , or he can make hay for the winter .
now , i want you to just look really close up onto what 's happened there .
so , it 's a very productive system .
and what i need to tell you is that on 100 acres he gets 40,000 pounds of beef ; 30,000 pounds of pork ; 25,000 dozen eggs ; 20,000 broilers ; 1,000 turkeys ; 1,000 rabbits -- an immense amount of food .
you know , you hear , " can organic feed the world ? "
well , look how much food you can produce on 100 acres if you do this kind of ... again , give each species what it wants ,
let it realize its desires , its physiological distinctiveness .
put that in play .
but look at it from the point of view of the grass , now .
what happens to the grass when you do this ?
when a ruminant grazes grass , the grass is cut from this height to this height ,
and it immediately does something very interesting .
any one of you who gardens knows that there is something called the root-shoot ratio ,
and plants need to keep the root mass in some rough balance with the leaf mass to be happy .
so when they lose a lot of leaf mass , they shed roots ;
they kind of cauterize them and the roots die .
and the species in the soil go to work basically chewing through those roots , decomposing them -- the earthworms , the fungi , the bacteria -- and the result is new soil .
this is how soil is created .
it 's created from the bottom up .
this is how the prairies were built , the relationship between bison and grasses .
and what i realized when i understood this -- and if you ask joel salatin what he is , he 'll tell you he 's not a chicken farmer , he 's not a sheep farmer , he 's not a cattle rancher ; he 's a grass farmer , because grass is really the keystone species of such a system -- is that , if you think about it , this completely contradicts the tragic idea of nature we hold in our heads , which is that for us to get what we want , nature is diminished .
more for us , less for nature .
here , all this food comes off this farm , and at the end of the season there is actually more soil , more fertility and more biodiversity .
it 's a remarkably hopeful thing to do .
there are a lot of farmers doing this today .
this is well beyond organic agriculture , which is still a cartesian system , more or less .
and what it tells you is that if you begin to take account of other species , take account of the soil , that even with nothing more than this perspectival idea -- because there is no technology involved here except for those fences , which are so cheap they could be all over africa in no time -- that we can take the food we need from the earth and actually heal the earth in the process .
this is a way to reanimate the world ,
and that 's what 's so exciting about this perspective .
when we really begin to feel darwin 's insights in our bones , the things we can do with nothing more than these ideas are something to be very hopeful about .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / john _ maeda _ how _ art _ technology _ and _ design _ inform _ creative _ leaders.html
john maeda , president of the rhode island school of design , delivers a funny and charming talk that spans a lifetime of work in art , design and technology , concluding with a picture of creative leadership in the future . watch for demos of maeda 's earliest work -- and even a computer made of people .
internet , art , arts , computers , creativity , design , humor , leadership , technology
1571
john maeda : how art , technology and design inform creative leaders
i have to say that i 'm very glad to be here .
i understand we have over 80 countries here , so that 's a whole new paradigm for me to speak to all of these countries .
in each country , i 'm sure you have this thing called the parent-teacher conference .
do you know about the parent-teacher conference ?
not the ones for your kids , but the one you had as a child , where your parents come to school and your teacher talks to your parents , and it 's a little bit awkward .
well , i remember in third grade , i had this moment where my father , who never takes off from work , he 's a classical blue collar , a working-class immigrant person , going to school to see his son , how he 's doing , and the teacher said to him , he said , " you know , john is good at math and art . "
and he kind of nodded , you know ?
the next day i saw him talking to a customer at our tofu store , and he said , " you know , john 's good at math . "
and that always stuck with me all my life .
why didn 't dad say art ? why wasn 't it okay ?
why ? it became a question my entire life , and that 's all right , because being good at math meant he bought me a computer , and some of you remember this computer , this was my first computer .
who had an apple ii ? apple ii users , very cool .
as you remember , the apple ii did nothing at all .
you 'd plug it in , you 'd type in it and green text would come out .
it would say you 're wrong most of the time .
that was the computer we knew .
that computer is a computer that i learned about going to mit , my father 's dream . and at mit , however , i learned about the computer at all levels , and after , i went to art school to get away from computers , and i began to think about the computer as more of a spiritual space of thinking .
and i was influenced by performance art --
so this is 20 years ago . i made a computer out of people .
it was called the human powered computer experiment .
i have a power manager , mouse driver , memory , etc . , and i built this in kyoto , the old capital of japan .
it 's a room broken in two halves .
i 've turned the computer on , and these assistants are placing a giant floppy disk built out of cardboard , and it 's put into the computer .
and the floppy disk drive person wears it .
she finds the first sector on the disk , and takes data off the disk and passes it off to , of course , the bus .
so the bus diligently carries the data into the computer to the memory , to the cpu , the vram , etc . , and it 's an actual working computer . that 's a bus , really .
and it looks kind of fast . that 's a mouse driver , where it 's xy .
it looks like it 's happening kind of quickly , but it 's actually a very slow computer , and when i realized how slow this computer was compared to how fast a computer is , it made me wonder about computers and technology in general .
and so i 'm going to talk today about four things , really .
the first three things are about how i 've been curious about technology , design and art , and how they intersect , how they overlap , and also a topic that i 've taken on since four years ago i became the president and i 'll talk about how i 've looked to combine these four areas into a kind of a synthesis , a kind of experiment .
so starting from technology , technology is a wonderful thing .
when that apple ii came out , it really could do nothing .
it could show text and after we waited a bit , we had these things called images .
remember when images were first possible with a computer , those gorgeous , full-color images ?
and then after a few years , we got cd-quality sound .
it was incredible . you could listen to sound on the computer .
and then movies , via cd-rom . it was amazing .
remember that excitement ?
and then the browser appeared . the browser was great , but the browser was very primitive , very narrow bandwidth .
text first , then images , we waited , cd-quality sound over the net , then movies over the internet . kind of incredible .
and then the mobile phone occurred , text , images , audio , video . and now we have iphone , ipad , android , with text , video , audio , etc .
you see this little pattern here ?
we 're kind of stuck in a loop , perhaps , and this sense of possibility from computing is something i 've been questioning for the last 10 or so years , and have looked to design , as we understand most things , and to understand design with our technology has been a passion of mine .
and i have a small experiment to give you a quick design lesson .
designers talk about the relationship between form and content , content and form . now what does that mean ?
well , content is the word up there : fear . it 's a four-letter word . it 's a kind of a bad feeling word , fear .
fear is set in light helvetica , so it 's not too stressful , and if you set it in ultra light helvetica , it 's like , " oh , fear , who cares ? " right ?
you take the same ultra light helvetica and make it big , and like , whoa , that hurts . fear .
so you can see how you change the scale , you change
the form . content is the same , but you feel differently .
you change the typeface to , like , this typeface , and it 's kind of funny . it 's like pirate typeface , like captain jack sparrow typeface . arr ! fear !
like , aww , that 's not fearful . that 's actually funny .
or fear like this , kind of a nightclub typeface . like , we gotta go to fear .
it 's , like , amazing , right ?
it just changes the same content .
or you make it -- the letters are separated apart , they 're huddled together like on the deck of the titanic , and you feel sorry for the letters , like , i feel the fear .
you feel for them .
or you change the typeface to something like this .
it 's very classy . it 's like that expensive restaurant , fear .
i can never get in there .
it 's just amazing , fear . but that 's form , content .
if you just change one letter in that content , you get a much better word , much better content : free .
" free " is a great word . you can serve it almost any way .
free bold feels like mandela free .
it 's like , yes , i can be free .
free even light feels kind of like , ah , i can breathe in free .
it feels great . or even free spread out , it 's like , ah , i can breathe in free , so easily .
and i can add in a blue gradient and a dove , and i have , like , don draper free .
so you see that -- form , content , design , it works that way .
it 's a powerful thing . it 's like magic , almost , like the magicians we 've seen at ted . it 's magic .
design does that .
and i 've been curious about how design and technology intersect , and i 'm going to show you some old work i never really show anymore , to give you a sense of what i used to do .
so -- yeah .
so i made a lot of work in the ' 90s .
this was a square that responds to sound .
people ask me why i made that . it 's not clear .
but i thought it 'd be neat for the square to respond to me , and my kids were small then , and my kids would play with these things , like , " aaah , " you know , they would say , " daddy , aaah , aaah . " you know , like that .
we 'd go to a computer store , and they 'd do the same thing .
and they 'd say , " daddy , why doesn 't the computer respond to sound ? " and it was really at the time i was wondering why doesn 't the computer respond to sound ?
so i made this as a kind of an experiment at the time .
and then i spent a lot of time in the space of interactive graphics and things like this , and i stopped doing it because my students at mit got so much better than myself , so i had to hang up my mouse .
but in ' 96 , i made my last piece . it was in black and white , monochrome , fully monochrome , all in integer mathematics .
it 's called " tap , type , write . "
it 's paying a tribute to the wonderful typewriter that my mother used to type on all the time as a legal secretary .
it has 10 variations .
there 's a shift .
ten variations . this is , like , spin the letter around .
this is , like , a ring of letters .
this is 20 years old , so it 's kind of a --
let 's see , this is -
i love the french film " the red balloon . "
great movie , right ? i love that movie . so ,
this is sort of like a play on that .
it 's peaceful , like that .
i 'll show this last one . this is about balance , you know .
it 's kind of stressful typing out , so if you type on this keyboard , you can , like , balance it out .
if you hit g , life 's okay , so i always say , " hit g , and it 's going to be all right .
thank you .
thank you .
so that was 20 years ago , and i was always on the periphery of art .
by being president of risd i 've gone deep into art , and art is a wonderful thing , fine art , pure art .
you know , when people say , " i don 't get art . i don 't get it at all . " that means art is working , you know ?
it 's like , art is supposed to be enigmatic , so when you say , like , " i don 't get it , " like , oh , that 's great .
art does that , because art is about asking questions , questions that may not be answerable .
at risd , we have this amazing facility called the edna lawrence nature lab . it has 80,000 samples of animal , bone , mineral , plants .
you know , in rhode island , if an animal gets hit on the road , they call us up and we pick it up and stuff it .
and why do we have this facility ?
because at risd , you have to look at the actual animal , the object , to understand its volume , to perceive it .
at risd , you 're not allowed to draw from an image .
and many people ask me , john , couldn 't you just
digitize all this ? make it all digital ? wouldn 't it be better ?
and i often say , well , there 's something good to how things
used to be done . there 's something very different about it , something we should figure out what is good about how we did it , even in this new era .
and i have a good friend , he 's a new media artist named tota hasegawa . he 's based in london , no , actually it 's in tokyo , but when he was based in london , he had a game
with his wife . he would go to antique shops , and the game was as such : when we look at an antique we want , we 'll ask the shopkeeper for the story behind the antique , and if it 's a good story , we 'll buy it .
so they 'd go to an antique shop , and they 'd look at this cup , and they 'd say , " tell us about this cup . "
and the shopkeeper would say , " it 's old . "
" tell us more . " " oh , it 's really old . "
and he saw , over and over , the antique 's value was all about it being old .
and as a new media artist , he reflected , and said , you know , i 've spent my whole career making new media art .
people say , " wow , your art , what is it ? " it 's new media .
and he realized , it isn 't about old or new .
it 's about something in between .
it isn 't about " old , " the dirt , " new , " the cloud . it 's about what is good .
a combination of the cloud and the dirt is where the action is at .
you see it in all interesting art today , in all interesting businesses today . how we combine
those two together to make good is very interesting .
so art makes questions , and leadership is something that is asking a lot of questions .
we aren 't functioning so easily anymore .
we aren 't a simple authoritarian regime anymore .
as an example of authoritarianism , i was in russia one time traveling in st. petersburg , at a national monument , and i saw this sign that says , " do not walk on the grass , " and i thought , oh , i mean , i speak english , and you 're trying to single me out . that 's not fair .
but i found a sign for russian-speaking people , and it was the best sign ever to say no .
it was like , " no swimming , no hiking , no anything . "
my favorite ones are " no plants . " why would you bring a plant to a national monument ? i 'm not sure . and also " no love . "
so that is authoritarianism .
and what is that , structurally ?
it 's a hierarchy . we all know that a hierarchy is how we run many systems today , but as we know , it 's been disrupted .
it is now a network instead of a perfect tree .
it 's a heterarchy instead of a hierarchy . and that 's kind of awkward .
and so today , leaders are faced with how to lead differently , i believe .
this is work i did with my colleague becky bermont on creative leadership . what can we learn from artists and designers for how to lead ?
because in many senses , a regular leader loves to avoid mistakes .
someone who 's creative actually loves to learn from mistakes .
a traditional leader is always wanting to be right , whereas a creative leader hopes to be right .
and this frame is important today , in this complex , ambiguous space , and artists and designers have a lot to teach us , i believe .
and i had a show in london recently where my friends invited me to come to london for four days to sit in a sandbox , and i said great .
and so i sat in a sandbox for four days straight , six hours every day , six-minute appointments with anyone in london , and that was really bad .
but i would listen to people , hear their issues , draw in the sand , try to figure things out , and it was kind of hard to figure out what i was doing .
you know ? it 's all these one-on-one meetings for like four days .
and it felt kind of like being president , actually .
i was like , " oh , this my job . president . i do a lot of meetings , you know ? "
and by the end of the experience , i realized why i was doing this .
it 's because leaders , what we do is we connect improbable connections and hope something will happen , and in that room i found so many connections between people across all of london , and so leadership , connecting people , is the great question today .
whether you 're in the hierarchy or the heterarchy , it 's a wonderful design challenge .
and one thing i 've been doing is doing some research on systems that can combine technology and leadership with an art and design perspective .
let me show you something i haven 't shown anywhere , actually .
so what this is , is a kind of a sketch , an application sketch i wrote in python . you know how there 's photoshop ?
this is called powershop , and the way it works is imagine an organization . you know , the ceo isn 't ever
at the top . the ceo 's at the center of the organization .
there may be different subdivisions in the organization , and you might want to look into different areas . for instance ,
green are areas doing well , red are areas doing poorly .
you know , how do you , as the leader , scan , connect , make things happen ? so for instance , you might open up a distribution here and find the different subdivisions in there , and know that you know someone in eco , over here , and these people here are in eco , the people you might engage with as ceo , people going across the hierarchy .
and part of the challenge of the ceo is to find connections across areas , and so you might look in r & d , and here you see one person who crosses the two areas of interest , and it 's a person important to engage .
so you might want to , for instance , get a heads-up display on how you 're interacting with them .
how many coffees do you have ?
how often are you calling them , emailing them ?
what is the tenor of their email ? how is it working out ?
leaders might be able to use these systems to better regulate how they work inside the heterarchy .
you can also imagine using technology like from luminoso , the guys from cambridge who were looking at deep
text analysis . what is the tenor of your communications ?
so these kind of systems , i believe , are important .
they 're targeted social media systems around leaders .
and i believe that this kind of perspective will only begin to grow as more leaders enter the space of art and design , because art and design lets you think like this , find different systems like this ,
and i 've just begun thinking like this , so i 'm glad to share that with you .
so in closing , i want to thank all of you
for your attention . thanks very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / sergey _ brin _ and _ larry _ page _ on _ google.html
google co-founders larry page and sergey brin offer a peek inside the google machine , sharing tidbits about international search patterns , the philanthropic google foundation , and the company 's dedication to innovation and employee happiness .
google , business , collaboration , culture , design , technology , web
118
sergey brin and larry page on google
sergey brin : i want to discuss a question
i know that 's been pressing on many of your minds .
we spoke to you last several years ago .
and before i get started today , since many of you are wondering , i just wanted to get it out of the way .
the answer is boxers .
now i hope all of you feel better .
do you know what this might be ? does anyone know what that is ?
audience : yes .
sb : what is it ?
audience : it 's people logging on to google around the world .
sb : wow , ok . i didn 't really realize what it was when i first saw it .
but this is what helped me see it .
this is what we run at the office , that actually runs real time .
here it 's slightly logged .
but here you can see around the world how people are using google .
and every one of those rising dots represents probably about 20 , 30 searches , or something like that .
and they 're labeled by color right now , by language .
so you can see : here we are in the u.s. , and they 're all coming up red .
there we are in monterey -- hopefully i can get it right .
you can see that japan is busy at night , right there .
we have tokyo coming in in japanese .
there 's a lot of activity in china .
there 's a lot of activity in india .
there 's some in the middle east , the little pockets .
and europe , which is right now in the middle of the day , is going really strong with a whole wide variety of languages .
now you can also see , if i turn this around here -- hopefully i won 't shake the world too much .
but you can also see , there are places where there 's not so much .
australia , because there just aren 't very many people there .
and this is something that we should really work on , which is africa , which is just a few trickles , basically in south africa and a few other urban cities .
but basically , what we 've noticed is these queries , which come in at thousands per second , are available everywhere there is power .
and pretty much everywhere there is power , there is the internet .
and even in antarctica -- well , at least this time of year -- we from time to time will see a query rising up .
and if we had it plotted correctly , i think the international space station would have it , too .
so this is some of the challenge that we have here , is you can see that it 's actually kind of hard to get the --
there we go .
this is how we have to move the bits around to actually get the people the answers to their questions .
you can see that there 's a lot of data running around .
it has to go all over the world : through fibers , through satellites , through all kinds of connections .
and it 's pretty tricky for us to maintain the latencies as low as we try to . hopefully your experience is good .
but you can see also , once again -- so some places are much more wired than others , and you can see all the bandwidth across the u.s. , going up over to asia , europe in the other direction , and so forth .
now what i would like to do is just to show you what one second of this activity would look like .
and if we can switch to slides -- all right , here we go .
so this is slowed down .
this is what one second looks like .
and this is what we spend a lot of our time doing , with this kind of traffic load .
now , each one of those queries has an interesting life and tale of its own .
i mean , it could be somebody 's health , it could be somebody 's career , something important to them .
and it could potentially be something as important as tomato sauce , or in this case , ketchup .
so this is a query that we had -- i guess it 's a popular band that was more popular in some parts of the world than others .
you can see that it got started right here .
in the u.s. and spain , it was popular at the same time .
but it didn 't have quite the same pickup in the u.s. as it did in spain .
and then from spain , it went to italy , and then germany got excited , and maybe right now the u.k. is enjoying it .
and so i guess the u.s. finally , finally started to like it , too .
and i just wanted to play it for you .
anyway , you can all enjoy it for yourselves -- hopefully that search will work .
as a part of -- is to have more searches .
and what that means is we want to have more people who are healthy and educated .
more animals , if they start doing searches as well .
but partly , we want to make the world a better place , and so one thing that we 're embarking upon is the google foundation , and we 're in the process of setting that up .
we also have a program already called google grants that now serves over 150 different charities around the world , and these are some of the charities that are on there .
and it 's something i 'm very excited to be a part of .
in fact , many of the organizations that are here -- the acumen fund , i think approtec we have running , i 'm not sure if that one 's up yet -- and many of the people who have presented here are running through google grants .
they run google ads , and we just give them the ad credit so they can let organizations know .
one of the earlier results that we got -- we have a singaporean businessman who is now sponsoring a village of 25 vietnamese girls for their education , and that was one of the earliest results . and as i said , now there have been many , many stories that have come in ,
because we do have hundreds of charities in there , and the google foundation will be an even broader endeavor .
now does anybody know who this is ?
a-ha !
audience : orkut . sb : yes ! somebody got it .
this is orkut . is anybody here on orkut ?
do we have any ?
okay , not very many people know about it .
i 'll explain it in a second .
this is one of our engineers .
we find that they work better when they 're submerged and covered with leaves .
that 's how we churn those products out .
orkut had a vision to create a social network .
i know all of you are thinking , " yet another social network . "
but it was a dream of his , and we , basically , when people really want to do something , well , we generally let them .
so this is what he built .
we just released it in a test phase last month , and it 's been taking off .
this is our vp of engineering .
you can see the red hair , and i don 't know if you can see the nose ring there .
and these are all of his friends .
so this is how -- we just deployed it -- we just decided that people would send each other invitations to get into the service , and so we just had the people in our company initially send them out .
and now we 've grown to over 100,000 members . and they spread , actually , very quickly , even outside the u.s .
you can see , even though the u.s. is still the majority here -- though , by the way , search-wise , it 's only about 30 percent of our traffic --
but it 's already going to japan , and the u.k. , and europe , and all the rest of the countries .
so it 's a fun little project .
there are a variety of demographics . i won 't bore you with these .
but it 's just the kind of thing that we just try out for fun and see where it goes .
and --
well , i 'll leave you in suspense .
larry , you can explain this one .
larry page : thank you , sergey .
so one of the things -- both sergey and i went to a montessori school , and i think , for some reason , this has been incorporated in google .
and sergey mentioned orkut , which is something that , you know , orkut wanted to do in his time ,
and we call this -- at google , we 've embodied this as " the 20 percent time , "
and the idea is , for 20 percent of your time , if you 're working at google , you can do what you think is the best thing to do .
and many , many things at google have come out of that ,
such as orkut and also google news .
and i think many other things in the world also have come out of this .
mendel , who was supposed to be teaching high-school students , actually , you know , discovered the laws of genetics -- as a hobby , basically .
so many , many useful things come out of this .
and news , which i just mentioned , was started by a researcher . and he just -- he -- after 9 / 11 , he got really interested in the news .
and he said , " why don 't i look at the news better ? "
and so he started clustering it by category , and then he started using it , and then his friends started using it .
and then , besides just looking cute on a baby 's bottom , we made it a googlette , which is basically a small project at google .
so it 'd be like three people , or something like that , and they would try to make a product .
and we wouldn 't really be sure if it 's going to work or not .
and in news ' case , you know , they had a couple of people working on it for a while , and then more and more people started using it , and then we put it out on the internet , and more and more people started using it .
and now it 's a real , full-blown project with more people on it .
and this is how we keep our innovation running .
i think usually , as companies get bigger , they find it really hard to have small , innovative projects .
and we had this problem , too , for a while , and we said , " oh , we really need a new concept . "
you know , the googlettes -- that 's a small project that we 're not quite sure if it 's going to work or not ,
but we hope it will , and if we do enough of them , some of them will really work and turn out , such as news .
but then we had a problem because then we had over 100 projects .
and i don 't know about all of you , but i have trouble keeping 100 things in my head at once .
and we found that if we just wrote all of them down and ordered them -- and these are kind of made up .
don 't really pay attention to them .
for example , the " buy iceland " was from a media article .
we would never do such a crazy thing , but --
in any case , we found if we just basically wrote them all down and ordered them , that most people would actually agree what the ordering should be .
and this was kind of a surprise to me , but we found that as long as you keep the 100 things in your head , which you did by writing them down , that you could do a pretty good job deciding what to do and where to put your resources .
and so that 's basically what we 've done since we instituted that a few years ago , and i think it has really allowed us to be innovative and still stay reasonably well-organized .
the other thing we discovered is that people like to work on things that are important , and so naturally , people sort of migrate to the things that are high priorities .
i just wanted to highlight a couple of things that are new , or you might not know about .
and the top thing , actually , is the deskbar .
so this is a new -- how many of you use the google toolbar ?
raise your hands .
how many of you use the deskbar ?
all right , see ? you guys should try it out .
but if you go to our site and search for " deskbar , " you 'll get this .
and the idea is , instead of a toolbar , it 's just present all the time on your screen on the bottom , and you can do searches really easily .
and it 's sort of like a better version of the toolbar .
thank you , sergey .
this is another example of a project that somebody at google was really passionate about , and they just , they got going , and it 's really , really a great product , and really taking off .
google answers is something we started , which is really cool , which lets you -- for five to 100 dollars , you can type a question in , and then there 's a pool of researchers that go out and research it for you , and it 's guaranteed and all that , and you can get actually very good answers to things without spending all that time yourself .
froogle lets you search shopping information , and blogger lets you publish things .
but all of these -- well , these were all sort of innovative things that we did that --
you know , we try many , many different things in our company .
we also like to innovate in our physical space , and we noticed in meetings , you know , you have to wait a long time for projectors to turn on and off ,
and they 're noisy , so people shut them off .
and we didn 't like that , so we actually , in maybe a couple of weeks , we built these little enclosures that enclosed the projectors , and so we can leave them on all the time and they 're completely silent .
and as a result , we were able to build some software that also lets us manage a meeting ,
so when you walk into a meeting room now , it lists all the meetings that are happening , you can very easily take notes , and they just get emailed automatically to all the people that were present in the meeting .
and as we become more of a global company , we find these things really affect us --
you know , can we work effectively with people who aren 't in the room ?
and things like that . and simple things like this can really make a big difference .
we also have a lot of engineers in those meetings , and they don 't always do their laundry as much as they should .
and so we found it was pretty helpful to have laundry machines , for our younger employees especially , and ...
we also allow dogs and things like that ,
and we 've had , i think , a really fun culture at our company , which helps people work and enjoy what they 're doing .
this is actually our " cult picture . "
i just wanted to show quickly .
we had this on our website for a while , but we found that after we put it on our website , we didn 't get any job applications anymore .
but anyway , every year we 've taken the whole company on a ski trip .
a lot of work happens in companies from people knowing each other , and informally .
and i think we 've done a good job encouraging that .
it makes it a really fun place to work .
along with our logos , too , which i think really embody our culture when we change things .
in the early days , we were actually advised we should never change our logo because we should establish our brand , you know , because , you know , you 'd never want to change your logo .
you want it to be consistent .
and we said , " well , that doesn 't sound so much fun .
why don 't we try changing it every day ? "
one of the things that really excites me about what we 're doing now is we have this thing called adsense ,
and this is a little bit foreshadowing -- this is from before dean dropped out .
but the idea is , like , on a newspaper , for example , we show you relevant ads .
and this is hard to read , but this says " battle for new hampshire : howard dean for president " -- articles on howard dean .
and these ads are generated automatically -- like in this case , on the washington post -- from the content on the site .
and so we use our over 150,000 advertisers and millions of advertisements , so we pick the one that 's most relevant to what you 're actually looking at , much as we do on search .
so the idea is we can make advertising useful , not just annoying , right ?
and the nice thing about this , we have a self-serve program , and many thousands of websites have signed up , and this let 's them really make money . and i --
you know , there 's a number of people i met -- i met this guy who runs a conservation site at a party , and he said , " you know , i wasn 't making any money .
i just put this thing on my site and i 'm making 10,000 dollars a month .
i don 't have to do my other job now . "
and i think this is really important for us , because it makes the internet work better .
it makes content get better , it makes searching work better , when people can really make their livelihood from producing great content .
so this session is supposed to be about the future , so i 'd thought i 'd talk at least briefly about it .
and the idea behind this is to do the perfect job doing search , you really have to be smart .
because you can type , you know , any kind of thing into google , and you expect an answer back , right ?
but finding things is tricky , and so you really want intelligence .
and in fact , the ultimate search engine would be smart .
it would be artificial intelligence .
and so that 's something we work on ,
and we even have some people who are excited enough and crazy enough to work on it now , and that 's really their goal .
so we always hope that google will be smart , but we 're always surprised when other people think that it is .
and so i just wanted to give a funny example of this . this is a blog from iraq ,
and it 's not really what i 'm going to talk about , but i just wanted to show you an example .
maybe , sergey , you can highlight this .
so we decided -- actually , the highlight 's right there . oh , thank you .
so , " related searches , " right there . you can 't see it that well ,
but we decided we should put in this feature into our adsense ads , called " related searches . "
and so we 'd say , you know , " did you mean ' search for ' " -- what is this ,
in this case , " saddam hussein , " because this blog is about iraq -- and you know , in addition to the ads , and we thought this would be a great idea .
and so there is this blog of a young person who was kind of depressed , and he said , " you know , i 'm sleeping a lot . "
he was just kind of writing about his life .
and our algorithms -- not a person , of course , but our algorithms , our computers -- read his blog and decided that the related search was , " i am bored . "
and he read this , and he thought a person had decided that he was boring ,
and it was very unfortunate , and he said , " you know , what are these , you know , bastards at google doing ?
why don 't they like my blog ? "
and so then we read his blog , which was getting -- you know , sort of going from bad to worse , and we said the related search was , " retards . "
and then , you know , he got even more mad , and he wrote -- like , started swearing and so on .
and then we produced " you suck . "
and finally , it ended with " kiss my ass . "
and so basically , he thought he was dealing with something smart , and of course , you know , we just sort of wrote this program and we tried it out ,
and it didn 't quite work ,
and we don 't have this feature anymore .
so with that , maybe i can switch back to the world .
i wanted to end just by saying that there 's a couple things that really make me excited to be involved with google ,
and one of those is that we 're able to make money largely through advertising , and one of the benefits that i didn 't expect from that was that we 're able to serve everyone in the world without worrying about , you know , places that don 't have as much money .
so we don 't have to worry about our products being sold , for example , for less money in places that are poor , and then they get re-imported into the u.s. -- for example , with the drug industry .
and i think we 're really lucky to have that kind of business model because everyone in the world has access to our search , and i think that 's a tremendous , tremendous benefit .
the other thing i wanted to mention just briefly is that we have a tremendous ability and responsibility to provide people the right information ,
and we view ourselves like a newspaper or a magazine -- that we should provide very objective information .
and so in our search results , we never accept payment for our search results .
we accept payment for advertising , and we mark it as such .
and that 's unlike many of our competitors .
and i think decisions we 're able to make like that have a tremendous impact on the world , and it makes me really proud to be involved with google .
so thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / seth _ priebatsch _ the _ game _ layer _ on _ top _ of _ the _ world.html
by now , we 're used to letting facebook and twitter capture our social lives on the web -- building a " social layer " on top of the real world . at tedxboston , seth priebatsch looks at the next layer in progress : the " game layer , " a pervasive net of behavior-steering game dynamics that will reshape education and commerce .
business , entertainment , entrepreneur , gaming , money , psychology
936
seth priebatsch : the game layer on top of the world
my name 's seth priebatsch . i 'm the chief ninja of scvngr .
i am a proud princeton dropout .
also proud to have relocated here to boston , where i actually grew up .
yeah , boston .
easy wins . i should just go and name the counties that we 've got around here .
so , i 'm also fairly determined to try and build a game layer on top of the world .
and this is sort of a new concept , and it 's really important .
because while the last decade was the decade of social and the decade of where the framework in which we connect with other people was built , this next decade will be the decade where the game framework is built , where the motivations that we use to actually influence behavior , and the framework in which that is constructed , is decided upon , and that 's really important .
and so i say that i want to build a game layer on top of the world , but that 's not quite true because it 's already under construction ; it 's already happening .
and it looks like this right now .
it looks like the web did back in 1997 , right ?
it 's not very good . it 's cluttered .
it 's filled with lots of different things that , in short , aren 't that fun .
there are credit card schemes and airline mile programs and coupon cards and all these loyalty schemes that actually do use game dynamics and actually are building the game layer : they just suck .
they 're not very well designed , right ?
so , that 's unfortunate .
but luckily , as my favorite action hero , bob the builder , says , " we can do better . we can build this better . " and the tools , the resources that we use to build a game layer are game dynamics themselves .
and so , sort of , the crux of this presentation is going to go through four really important game dynamics , really interesting things , that , if you use consciously , you can use to influence behavior , both for good , for bad , for in-between .
hopefully for good .
but this is sort of the important stages in which that framework will get built , and so we want to all be thinking about it consciously now .
just before we jump into that , there 's sort of a question of : why is this important ?
i 'm sort of making this claim that there is a game layer on top of the world , and that it 's very important that we build it properly .
the reason that it 's so important is that , the last decade , what we 've seen has been building the social layer , has been this framework for connections , and construction on that layer is over , it 's finished .
there 's still a lot to explore .
there 's still a lot of people who are trying to figure out social and how do we leverage this and how do we use this , but the framework itself is done , and it 's called facebook .
and that 's okay , right ? a lot of people are very happy with facebook .
i like it quite a lot .
they 've created this thing called the open graph , and they own all of our connections .
they own half a billion people .
and so when you want to build on the social layer , the framework has been decided ; it is the open graph api .
and if you 're happy with that , fantastic .
if you 're not , too bad . there 's nothing you can do .
but this next decade -- and that 's a real thing .
i mean , we want to build frameworks in a way that makes it acceptable and makes it , you know , productive down the road .
so , the social layer is all about these connections .
the game layer is all about influence .
it 's not about adding a social fabric to the web and connecting you to other people everywhere you are and everywhere you go .
it 's actually about using dynamics , using forces , to influence the behavior of where you are , what you do there , how you do it .
that 's really , really powerful , and it 's going to be more important than the social layer .
it 's going to affect our lives more deeply and perhaps more invisibly .
and so it 's incredibly critical that at this moment , while it 's just getting constructed , while the frameworks like facebook , like the open graph , are being created for the game layer equivalent , that we think about it very consciously , and that we do it in a way that is open , that is available , and that can be leveraged for good .
and so that 's what i want to talk about for game dynamics , because construction has just begun , and the more consciously we can think about this , the better we 'll be able to use it for anything that we want .
so like i said , the way that you go through and build on the game layer is not with glass and steel and cement .
and the resources that we use are not this two-dimensional swath of land that we have .
the resources are mindshare and the tools , the raw materials are these game dynamics .
so with that , you know , a couple game dynamics to talk about .
four . back at scvngr , we like to joke that with seven game dynamics , you can get anyone to do anything .
and so today , i 'm going to show you four , because i hope to have a competitive advantage at the end of this , still .
so the first one , it 's a very simple game dynamic .
it 's called the appointment dynamic .
and this is a dynamic in which to succeed , players have to do something at a predefined time , generally at a predefined place .
and these dynamics are a little scary sometimes , because you think , you know , other people can be using forces that will manipulate how i interact : what i do , where i do it , when i do it .
this sort of loss of free will that occurs in games can be frightening , so with each dynamic , i 'm going to give three examples : one that shows how this is already being used in the real world , so you can sort of rationalize it a little bit ; one that shows it in what we consider a conventional game -- i think everything is a game , but this is sort of more of a what you would think is a game played on a board or on a computer screen , and then one how this can be used for good , so we can see that these forces can really be very powerful .
so the first one -- the most famous appointment dynamic in the world -- is something called happy hour .
so i just recently dropped out of princeton and actually ended up for the first time in a bar , and i saw these happy hour things all over the place , right .
and this is simply an appointment dynamic .
come here at a certain time , get your drinks half off .
to win , all you have to do is show up at the right place at the right time .
this game dynamic is so powerful that it doesn 't just influence our behavior , it 's influenced our entire culture .
that 's a really scary thought , that one game dynamic can change things so powerfully .
it also exists in more conventional game forms .
i 'm sure you 've all heard of farmville by now .
if you haven 't , i recommend playing it .
you won 't do anything else with the rest of your day .
farmville has more active users than twitter .
it 's incredibly powerful , and it has this dynamic where you have to return at a certain time to water your crops -- fake crops -- or they wilt .
and this is so powerful that , when they tweak their stats , when they say your crops wilt after eight hours , or after six hours , or after 24 hours , it changes the lifecycle of 70 million-some people during the day .
they will return like clockwork at different times .
so if they wanted the world to end , if they wanted productivity to stop , they could make this a 30-minute cycle , and no one could do anything else , right ?
that 's a little scary .
but this could also be used for good .
this is a local company called vitality , and they 've created a product to help people take their medicine on time .
that 's an appointment .
it 's something that people don 't do very well .
and they have these glowcaps , which , you know , flash and email you and do all sorts of cool things to remind you to take your medicine .
this is one that isn 't a game yet , but really should be .
you should get points for doing this on time .
you should lose points for not doing this on time .
they should consciously recognize that they 've built an appointment dynamic and leverage the games .
and then you can really achieve good in some interesting ways .
we 're going to jump onto the next one , maybe . yes .
influence and status .
so this is one of the most famous game dynamics .
it 's used all over the place .
it 's used in your wallets , right now .
we all want that credit card on the far left because it 's black .
and you see someone at cvs or -- not cvs -- at christian dior or something , and then ... i don 't know . i don 't have a black card ; i 've got a debit card .
so they whip it out . and you see men , they have that black card .
i want that because that means that they 're cooler than i am , and i need that .
and this is used in games as well .
" modern warfare , " one of the most successful selling games of all time .
i 'm only a level four , but i desperately want to be a level 10 , because they 've got that cool red badge thing , and that means that i am somehow better than everyone else .
and that 's very powerful to me . status is really good motivator .
it 's also used in more conventional settings and can be used more consciously in conventional settings .
school -- and remember , i made it through one year , so i think i 'm qualified to talk on school -- is a game , it 's just not a terribly well-designed game , right .
there are levels . there are c. there are b. there is a .
there are statuses . i mean , what is valedictorian , but a status ?
if we called valedictorian a " white knight paladin level 20 , " i think people would probably work a lot harder .
so school is a game , and there have been lots of experimentations on how we do this properly .
but let 's use it consciously . like why have games that you can lose ?
why go from an a to an f or a b to a c ?
that sucks . why not level-up ?
and at princeton , they 've actually experimented with this , where they have quizzes where you gain experience points , and you level up from b to an a .
and it 's very powerful .
it can be used in interesting ways .
the third one i want to talk about quickly is the progression dynamic , where you have to sort of make progress , you have to move through different steps in a very granular fashion .
this is used all over the place , including linkedin , where i am an un-whole individual .
i am only 85 percent complete on linkedin , and that bothers me .
and this is so deep-seated in our psyche that when we 're presented with a progress bar and presented with easy , granular steps to take to try and complete that progress bar , we will do it .
we will find a way to move that blue line
all the way to the right edge of the screen .
this is used in conventional games as well .
i mean , you see this is a paladin level 10 , and that 's a paladin level 20 , and if you were going to fight , you know , orcs on the fields of mordor against the raz al ghul , you 'd probably want to be the bigger one , right .
i would .
and so people work very hard to level-up .
" world of warcraft " is one of the most successful games of all time .
the average player spends something like six , six-and-a-half hours a day on it .
their most dedicated players , it 's like a full-time job .
it 's insane . and they have these systems where you can level-up .
and that 's a very powerful thing . progression is powerful .
it can also be used in very compelling ways for good .
one of the things that we work on at scvngr is how do you use games to drive traffic and drive business to local businesses , to sort of something that is very key to the economy .
and here we have a game that people play .
they go places , they do challenges , they earn points .
and we 've introduced a progression dynamic into it , where , by going to the same place over and over , by doing challenges , by engaging with the business , you move a green bar from the left edge of the screen to the right edge of the screen , and you eventually unlock rewards .
and this is powerful enough that we can see that it hooks people into these dynamics , pulls them back to the same local businesses , creates huge loyalty , creates engagement , and is able to drive meaningful revenue and fun and engagement to businesses .
these progression dynamics are powerful and can be used in the real world .
the final one i want to talk about -- and it 's a great one to end on -- is this concept of communal discovery , a dynamic in which everyone has to work together to achieve something .
and communal discovery is powerful because it leverages the network that is society to solve problems .
this is used in some sort of famous consumer web stories , like digg , which i 'm sure you 've all heard of .
digg is a communal dynamic to try to find and source the best news , the most interesting stories .
and they made this into a game , initially .
they had a leader board , where , if you recommended the best stories , you would get points .
and that really motivated people to find the best stories .
but it became so powerful that there was actually a cabal , a group of people , the top seven on the leader board , who would work together to make sure they maintained that position .
and they would recommend other people 's stories ,
and the game became more powerful than the goal .
and they actually had to end up shutting down the leader board because while it was effective , it was so powerful that it stopped sourcing the best stories and started having people work to maintain their leadership .
so we have to use this one carefully .
it 's also used in things like mcdonald 's monopoly , where the game is not the monopoly game you 're playing , but the sort of cottage industries that form to try and find boardwalk , right .
and now they 're just looking for a little sticker that says " boardwalk . "
but it can also be used to find real things .
this is the darpa balloon challenge , where they hid a couple balloons all across the united states and said , " use networks .
try and find these balloons fastest , and the winner will get $ 40,000 . "
and the winner was actually a group out of mit , where they created sort of a pyramid scheme , a network , where the first person to recommend the location of a balloon got $ 2,000 and anyone else to push that recommendation up also got a cut of it .
and in 12 hours , they were able to find all these balloons , all across the country , right .
really powerful dynamic .
and so , i 've got about 20 seconds left , so if i 'm going to leave you with anything , last decade was the decade of social .
this next decade is the decade of games .
we use game dynamics to build on it . we build with mindshare .
we can influence behavior .
it is very powerful . it is very exciting .
let 's all build it together , let 's do it well and have fun playing .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / tim _ brown _ urges _ designers _ to _ think _ big.html
tim brown says the design profession is preoccupied with creating nifty , fashionable objects -- even as pressing questions like clean water access show it has a bigger role to play . he calls for a shift to local , collaborative , participatory " design thinking . "
art , business , design , green , history , product design
646
tim brown urges designers to think big
i 'd like to talk a little bit this morning about what happens if we move from design to design thinking .
now this rather old photo up there is actually the first project i was ever hired to do ,
something like 25 years ago .
it 's a woodworking machine , or at least a piece of one ,
and my task was to make this thing a little bit more modern , a little bit easier to use .
i thought , at the time , i did a pretty good job .
unfortunately , not very long afterwards the company went out of business .
this is the second project that i did . it 's a fax machine .
i put an attractive shell around some new technology .
again , 18 months later , the product was obsolete .
and now , of course , the whole technology is obsolete .
now , i 'm a fairly slow learner ,
but eventually it occurred to me that maybe what passed for design wasn 't all that important -- making things more attractive , making them a bit easier to use , making them more marketable .
by focusing on a design , maybe just a single product , i was being incremental and not having much of an impact .
but i think this small view of design is a relatively recent phenomenon , and in fact really emerged in the latter half of the 20th century as design became a tool of consumerism .
so when we talk about design today , and particularly when we read about it in the popular press , we 're often talking about products like these .
amusing ? yes . desirable ? maybe .
important ? not so very .
but this wasn 't always the way .
and i 'd like to suggest that if we take a different view of design , and focus less on the object and more on design thinking as an approach , that we actually might see the result in a bigger impact .
now this gentleman , isambard kingdom brunel , designed many great things in his career in the 19th century , including the clifton suspension bridge in bristol and the thames tunnel at rotherhithe .
both great designs and actually very innovative too .
his greatest creation runs actually right through here in oxford .
it 's called the great western railway .
and as a kid i grew up very close to here ,
and one of my favorite things to do was to cycle along by the side of the railway waiting for the great big express trains to roar past .
you can see it represented here in j.m.w. turner 's painting , " rain , steam and speed . "
now , what brunel said that he wanted to achieve for his passengers was the experience of floating across the countryside .
now , this was back in the 19th century .
and to do that meant creating the flattest gradients that had ever yet been made , which meant building long viaducts across river valleys -- this is actually the viaduct across the thames at maidenhead -- and long tunnels such as the one at box , in wiltshire .
but he didn 't stop there . he didn 't stop with just trying to design the best railway journey .
he imagined an integrated transportation system in which it would be possible for a passenger to embark on a train in london and disembark from a ship in new york .
one journey from london to new york .
this is the s.s. great western that he built to take care of the second half of that journey .
now , brunel was working 100 years before the emergence of the design profession ,
but i think he was using design thinking to solve problems and to create world-changing innovations .
now , design thinking begins with what roger martin , the business school professor at the university of toronto , calls integrative thinking .
and that 's the ability to exploit opposing ideas and opposing constraints to create new solutions .
in the case of design , that means balancing desirability , what humans need , with technical feasibility , and economic viability .
with innovations like the great western , we can stretch that balance to the absolute limit .
so somehow , we went from this to this .
systems thinkers who were reinventing the world , to a priesthood of folks in black turtlenecks and designer glasses working on small things .
as our industrial society matured , so design became a profession and it focused on an ever smaller canvas until it came to stand for aesthetics , image and fashion .
now i 'm not trying to throw stones here .
i 'm a fully paid-up member of that priesthood , and somewhere in here i have my designer glasses .
there we go .
but i do think that perhaps design is getting big again .
and that 's happening through the application of design thinking to new kinds of problems -- to global warming , to education , healthcare , security , clean water , whatever .
and as we see this reemergence of design thinking and we see it beginning to tackle new kinds of problems , there are some basic ideas that i think we can observe that are useful .
and i 'd like to talk about some of those just for the next few minutes .
the first of those is that design is human-centered .
it may integrate technology and economics , but it starts with what humans need , or might need .
what makes life easier , more enjoyable ?
what makes technology useful and usable ?
but that is more than simply good ergonomics , putting the buttons in the right place .
it 's often about understanding culture and context before we even know where to start to have ideas .
so when a team was working on a new vision screening program in india , they wanted to understand what the aspirations and motivations were of these school children to understand how they might play a role in screening their parents .
conversion sound has developed a high quality , ultra-low-cost digital hearing aid for the developing world .
now , in the west we rely on highly trained technicians to fit these hearing aids .
in places like india , those technicians simply don 't exist .
so it took a team working in india with patients and community health workers to understand how a pda and an application on a pda might replace those technicians in a fitting and diagnostic service .
instead of starting with technology , the team started with people and culture .
so if human need is the place to start , then design thinking rapidly moves on to learning by making .
instead of thinking about what to build , building in order to think .
now , prototypes speed up the process of innovation ,
because it is only when we put our ideas out into the world that we really start to understand their strengths and weaknesses .
and the faster we do that , the faster our ideas evolve .
now , much has been said and written about the aravind eye institute in madurai , india .
they do an incredible job of serving very poor patients by taking the revenues from those who can afford to pay to cross-subsidize those who cannot .
now , they are very efficient , but they are also very innovative .
when i visited them a few years ago , what really impressed me was their willingness to prototype their ideas very early .
this is the manufacturing facility for one of their biggest cost breakthroughs .
they make their own intraocular lenses .
these are the lenses that replace those that are damaged by cataracts .
and i think it 's partly their prototyping mentality that really allowed them to achieve the breakthrough .
because they brought the cost down from $ 200 a pair , down to just $ 4 a pair .
partly they did this by instead of building a fancy new factory , they used the basement of one of their hospitals .
and instead of installing the large-scale machines used by western producers , they used low-cost cad / cam prototyping technology .
they are now the biggest manufacturer of these lenses in the developing world and have recently moved into a custom factory .
so if human need is the place to start , and prototyping , a vehicle for progress , then there are also some questions to ask about the destination .
instead of seeing its primary objective as consumption , design thinking is beginning to explore the potential of participation --
the shift from a passive relationship between consumer and producer to the active engagement of everyone in experiences that are meaningful , productive and profitable .
so i 'd like to take the idea that rory sutherland talked about , this notion that intangible things are worth perhaps more than physical things , and take that a little bit further and say that i think the design of participatory systems , in which many more forms of value beyond simply cash are both created and measured , is going to be the major theme , not only for design , but also for our economy as we go forward .
so william beveridge , when he wrote the first of his famous reports in 1942 , created what became britain 's welfare state in which he hoped that every citizen would be an active participant in their own social well-being .
by the time he wrote his third report , he confessed that he had failed and instead had created a society of welfare consumers .
hilary cottam , charlie leadbeater , and hugo manassei of participle have taken this idea of participation , and in their manifesto entitled beveridge 4.0 , they are suggesting a framework for reinventing the welfare state .
so in one of their projects called southwark circle , they worked with residents in southwark , south london and a small team of designers to develop a new membership organization to help the elderly with household tasks .
designs were refined and developed with 150 older people and their families before the service was launched earlier this year .
we can take this idea of participation perhaps to its logical conclusion and say that design may have its greatest impact when it 's taken out of the hands of designers and put into the hands of everyone .
nurses and practitioners at u.s. healthcare system kaiser permanente study the topic of improving the patient experience ,
and particularly focused on the way that they exchange knowledge and change shift .
through a program of observational research , brainstorming new solutions and rapid prototyping , they 've developed a completely new way to change shift .
