and we started boycotting anything that was french .
well , my name of my company , joie de vivre --
so i started getting these letters from places like alabama and orange county saying to me that they were going to boycott my company because they thought we were a french company .
and i 'd write them back , and i 'd say , " what a minute . we 're not french .
we 're an american company . we 're based in san francisco . "
and i 'd get a terse response : " oh , that 's worse . "
so one particular day when i was feeling a little depressed and not a lot of joie de vivre , i ended up in the local bookstore around the corner from our offices .
and i initially ended up in the business section of the bookstore looking for a business solution .
but given my befuddled state of mind , i ended up in the self-help section very quickly .
that 's where i got reacquainted with abraham maslow 's " hierarchy of needs . "
i took one psychology class in college , and i learned about this guy , abraham maslow , as many of us are familiar with his hierarchy of needs .
but as i sat there for four hours , the full afternoon , reading maslow , i recognized something that is true of most leaders .
one of the simplest facts in business is something that we often neglect ,
and that is that we 're all human .
each of us , no matter what our role is in business , has some hierarchy of needs in the workplace .
so as i started reading more maslow , what i started to realize is that maslow , later in his life , wanted to take this hierarchy for the individual and apply it to the collective , to organizations and specifically to business .
but unfortunately , he died prematurely in 1970 ,
and so he wasn 't really able to live that dream completely .
so i realized in that dotcom crash that my role in life was to channel abe maslow .
and that 's what i did a few years ago when i took that five-level hierarchy of needs pyramid and turned it into what i call the transformation pyramid , which is survival , success and transformation .
it 's not just fundamental in business , it 's fundamental in life .
and we started asking ourselves the questions about how we were actually addressing the higher needs , these transformational needs for our key employees in the company .
these three levels of the hierarchy needs relate to the five levels of maslow 's hierarchy of needs .
but as we started asking ourselves about how we were addressing the higher needs of our employees and our customers , i realized we had no metrics .
we had nothing that actually could tell us whether we were actually getting it right .
so we started asking ourselves : what kind of less obvious metrics could we use to actually evaluate our employees ' sense of meaning , or our customers ' sense of emotional connection with us ?
for example , we actually started asking our employees , do they understand the mission of our company , and do they feel like they believe in it , can they actually influence it , and do they feel that their work actually has an impact on it ?
we started asking our customers , did they feel an emotional connection with us , in one of seven different kinds of ways .
miraculously , as we asked these questions and started giving attention higher up the pyramid , what we found is we created more loyalty .
our customer loyalty skyrocketed .
our employee turnover dropped to one-third of the industry average ,
and during that five year dotcom bust , we tripled in size .
as i went out and started spending time with other leaders out there and asking them how they were getting through that time , what they told me over and over again was that they just manage what they can measure .
what we can measure is that tangible stuff at the bottom of the pyramid .
they didn 't even see the intangible stuff higher up the pyramid .
so i started asking myself the question : how can we get leaders to start valuing the intangible ?
if we 're taught as leaders to just manage what we can measure , and all we can measure is the tangible in life , we 're missing a whole lot of things at the top of the pyramid .
so i went out and studied a bunch of things ,
and i found a survey that showed that 94 percent of business leaders worldwide believe that the intangibles are important in their business , things like intellectual property , their corporate culture , their brand loyalty ,
and yet , only five percent of those same leaders actually had a means of measuring the intangibles in their business .
so as leaders , we understand that intangibles are important , but we don 't have a clue how to measure them .
so here 's another einstein quote : " not everything that can be counted counts , and not everything that counts can be counted . "
i hate to argue with einstein , but if that which is most valuable in our life and our business actually can 't be counted or valued , aren 't we going to spend our lives just mired in measuring the mundane ?
it was that sort of heady question about what counts that led me to take my ceo hat off for a week and fly off to the himalayan peaks .
i flew off to a place that 's been shrouded in mystery for centuries , a place some folks call shangri-la .
it 's actually moved from the survival base of the pyramid to becoming a transformational role model for the world .
i went to bhutan .
the teenage king of bhutan was also a curious man , but this was back in 1972 , when he ascended to the throne two days after his father passed away .
at age 17 , he started asking the kinds of questions that you 'd expect of someone with a beginner 's mind .
on a trip through india , early in his reign as king , he was asked by an indian journalist about the bhutanese gdp , the size of the bhutanese gdp .
the king responded in a fashion that actually has transformed us four decades later .
he said the following , he said : " why are we so obsessed and focused with gross domestic product ?
why don 't we care more about gross national happiness ? "
now , in essence , the king was asking us to consider an alternative definition of success , what has come to be known as gnh , or gross national happiness .
most world leaders didn 't take notice , and those that did thought this was just " buddhist economics . "
but the king was serious .
this was a notable moment , because this was the first time a world leader in almost 200 years had suggested that intangible of happiness -- that leader 200 years ago , thomas jefferson with the declaration of independence -- 200 years later , this king was suggesting that intangible of happiness is something that we should measure , and it 's something we should actually value as government officials .
for the next three dozen years as king , this king actually started measuring and managing around happiness in bhutan --
including , just recently , taking his country from being an absolute monarchy to a constitutional monarchy with no bloodshed , no coup .
bhutan , for those of you who don 't know it , is the newest democracy in the world , just two years ago .
so as i spent time with leaders in the gnh movement , i got to really understand what they 're doing .
and i got to spend some time with the prime minister .
over dinner , i asked him an impertinent question .
i asked him , " how can you create and measure something which evaporates -- in other words , happiness ? "
and he 's a very wise man , and he said , " listen , bhutan 's goal is not to create happiness .
we create the conditions for happiness to occur .
in other words , we create a habitat of happiness . "
wow , that 's interesting .
he said that they have a science behind that art ,
and they 've actually created four essential pillars , nine key indicators and 72 different metrics that help them to measure their gnh .
one of those key indicators is : how do the bhutanese feel about how they spend their time each day ?
it 's a good question . how do you feel about how you spend your time each day ?
time is one of the scarcest resources in the modern world .
and yet , of course , that little intangible piece of data doesn 't factor into our gdp calculations .
as i spent my week up in the himalayas , i started to imagine what i call an emotional equation .
and it focuses on something i read long ago from a guy named rabbi hyman schachtel .
how many know him ? anybody ?
1954 , he wrote a book called " the real enjoyment of living , "
and he suggested that happiness is not about having what you want ;
instead , it 's about wanting what you have .
or in other words , i think the bhutanese believe happiness equals wanting what you have -- imagine gratitude -- divided by having what you want -- gratification .
the bhutanese aren 't on some aspirational treadmill , constantly focused on what they don 't have .
their religion , their isolation , their deep respect for their culture and now the principles of their gnh movement all have fostered a sense of gratitude about what they do have .
how many of us here , as tedsters in the audience , spend more of our time in the bottom half of this equation , in the denominator ?
we are a bottom-heavy culture in more ways than one .
the reality is , in western countries , quite often we do focus on the pursuit of happiness as if happiness is something that we have to go out -- an object that we 're supposed to get , or maybe many objects .
actually , in fact , if you look in the dictionary , many dictionaries define pursuit as to " chase with hostility . "
do we pursue happiness with hostility ?
good question . but back to bhutan .
bhutan 's bordered on its north and south by 38 percent of the world 's population .
could this little country , like a startup in a mature industry , be the spark plug that influences a 21st century of middle-class in china and india ?
bhutan 's created the ultimate export , a new global currency of well-being ,
and there are 40 countries around the world today that are studying their own gnh .
you may have heard , this last fall nicolas sarkozy in france announcing the results of an 18-month study by two nobel economists , focusing on happiness and wellness in france .
sarkozy suggested that world leaders should stop myopically focusing on gdp and consider a new index , what some french are calling a " joie de vivre index . "
i like it .
co-branding opportunities .
just three days ago , three days ago here at ted , we had a simulcast of david cameron , potentially the next prime minister of the uk , quoting one of my favorite speeches of all-time , robert kennedy 's poetic speech from 1968 when he suggested that we 're myopically focused on the wrong thing and that gdp is a misplaced metric .
so it suggests that the momentum is shifting .
i 've taken that robert kennedy quote , and i 've turned it into a new balance sheet for just a moment here .
this is a collection of things that robert kennedy said in that quote .
gdp counts everything from air pollution to the destruction of our redwoods .
but it doesn 't count the health of our children or the integrity of our public officials .
as you look at these two columns here , doesn 't it make you feel like it 's time for us to start figuring out a new way to count , a new way to imagine what 's important to us in life ?
certainly robert kennedy suggested at the end of the speech exactly that .
he said gdp " measures everything in short , except that which makes life worthwhile . "
wow .
so how do we do that ?
let me say one thing we can just start doing ten years from now , at least in this country .
why in the heck in america are we doing a census in 2010 ?
we 're spending 10 billion dollars on the census .
we 're asking 10 simple questions -- it is simplicity .
but all of those questions are tangible .
they 're about demographics .
they 're about where you live , how many people you live with , and whether you own your home or not .
that 's about it .
we 're not asking meaningful metrics .
we 're not asking important questions .
we 're not asking anything that 's intangible .
abe maslow said long ago something you 've heard before , but you didn 't realize it was him .
he said , " if the only tool you have is a hammer , everything starts to look like a nail . "
we 've been fooled by our tool .
excuse that expression .
we 've been fooled by our tool .
gdp has been our hammer .
and our nail has been a 19th- and 20th-century industrial-era model of success .
and yet , 64 percent of the world 's gdp today is in that intangible industry we call service , the service industry , the industry i 'm in .
and only 36 percent is in the tangible industries of manufacturing and agriculture .
so maybe it 's time that we get a bigger toolbox , right ?
maybe it 's time we get a toolbox that doesn 't just count what 's easily counted , the tangible in life , but actually counts what we most value , the things that are intangible .
i guess i 'm sort of a curious ceo .
i was also a curious economics major as an undergrad .
i learned that economists measure everything in tangible units of production and consumption as if each of those tangible units is exactly the same .
they aren 't the same .
in fact , as leaders , what we need to learn is that we can influence the quality of that unit of production by creating the conditions for our employees to live their calling .
in vivian 's case , her unit of production isn 't the tangible hours she works ,
it 's the intangible difference she makes during that one hour of work .
this is dave arringdale who 's actually been a longtime guest at vivian 's motel .
he stayed there a hundred times in the last 20 years ,
and he 's loyal to the property because of the relationship that vivian and her fellow employees have created with him .
they 've created a habitat of happiness for dave .
he tells me that he can always count on vivian and the staff there to make him feel at home . why is it that business leaders and investors quite often don 't see the connection between creating the intangible of employee happiness with creating the tangible of financial profits in their business ?
we don 't have to choose between inspired employees and sizable profits ,
we can have both .
in fact , inspired employees quite often help make sizable profits , right ?
so what the world needs now , in my opinion , is business leaders and political leaders who know what to count .
we count numbers .
we count on people .
what really counts is when we actually use our numbers to truly take into account our people .
i learned that from a maid in a motel and a king of a country .
what can you start counting today ?
what one thing can you start counting today that actually would be meaningful in your life , whether it 's your work life or your business life ?
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / beau _ lotto _ amy _ o _ toole _ science _ is _ for _ everyone _ kids _ included.html
what do science and play have in common ? neuroscientist beau lotto thinks all people should participate in science and , through the process of discovery , change perceptions . he 's seconded by 12-year-old amy o 'toole , who , along with 25 of her classmates , published the first peer-reviewed article by schoolchildren , about the blackawton bees project . it starts : " once upon a time ... "
biology , children , collaboration , insects , science , youth
1587
beau lotto + amy o 'toole : science is for everyone , kids included
beau lotto : so , this game is very simple .
all you have to do is read what you see . right ?
so , i 'm going to count to you , so we don 't all do it together .
okay , one , two , three . audience : can you read this ?
bl : amazing . what about this one ? one , two , three . audience : you are not reading this .
bl : all right . one , two , three .
if you were portuguese , right ? how about this one ? one , two , three .
audience : what are you reading ?
bl : what are you reading ? there are no words there .
i said , read what you 're seeing . right ?
it literally says , " wat ar ou rea in ? " right ?
that 's what you should have said . right ? why is this ?
it 's because perception is grounded in our experience .
right ? the brain takes meaningless information and makes meaning out of it , which means we never see what 's there , we never see information , we only ever see what was useful to see in the past .
all right ? which means , when it comes to perception , we 're all like this frog .
right ? it 's getting information . it 's generating behavior that 's useful .
man : ow ! ow !
bl : and sometimes , when things don 't go our way , we get a little bit annoyed , right ?
but we 're talking about perception here , right ?
and perception underpins everything we think , we know , we believe , our hopes , our dreams , the clothes we wear , falling in love , everything begins with perception .
now if perception is grounded in our history , it means we 're only ever responding according to what we 've done before .
but actually , it 's a tremendous problem , because how can we ever see differently ?
now , i want to tell you a story about seeing differently , and all new perceptions begin in the same way .
they begin with a question .
the problem with questions is they create uncertainty .
now , uncertainty is a very bad thing . it 's evolutionarily a bad thing . if you 're not sure that 's a predator , it 's too late .
okay ?
even seasickness is a consequence of uncertainty . right ? if you go down below on a boat , your inner ears are you telling you you 're moving . your eyes , because it 's moving in register with the boat , say i 'm standing still .
your brain cannot deal with the uncertainty of that information , and it gets ill .
the question " why ? " is one of the most dangerous things you can do , because it takes you into uncertainty .
and yet , the irony is , the only way we can ever do anything new is to step into that space .
so how can we ever do anything new ? well fortunately , evolution has given us an answer , right ?
and it enables us to address even the most difficult they 're the ones that question the things we think to be true already . right ?
it 's easy to ask questions about how did life begin , or what extends beyond the universe , but to question what you think to be true already is really stepping into that space .
so what is evolution 's answer to the problem of uncertainty ?
it 's play .
now play is not simply a process . experts in play will tell you that actually it 's a way of being .
play is one of the only human endeavors where uncertainty is actually celebrated . uncertainty is what makes play fun .
right ? it 's adaptable to change . right ? it opens possibility , and it 's cooperative . it 's actually how we do our social bonding , and it 's intrinsically motivated . what that means is that we play to play . play is its own reward .
now if you look at these five ways of being , these are the exact same ways of being you need in order to be a good scientist .
science is not defined by the method section of a paper .
it 's actually a way of being , which is here , and this is true for anything that is creative .
so if you add rules to play , you have a game .
that 's actually what an experiment is .
so armed with these two ideas , that science is a way of being and experiments are play , we asked , can anyone become a scientist ?
and who better to ask than 25 eight- to 10-year-old children ?
because they 're experts in play . so i took my bee arena down to a small school in devon , and the aim of this was to not just get the kids to see science differently , but , through the process of science , to see themselves differently . right ?
the first step was to ask a question .
now , i should say that we didn 't get funding for this study because the scientists said small children couldn 't make a useful contribution to science , and the teachers said kids couldn 't do it .
so we did it anyway . right ? of course .
so , here are some of the questions . i put them in small print so you wouldn 't bother reading it . point is that five of the questions that the kids came up with were actually the basis of science publication the last five to 15 years . right ?
so they were asking questions that were significant to expert scientists .
now here , i want to share the stage with someone quite special . right ?
she was one of the young people who was involved in this study , and she 's now one of the youngest published scientists in the world . right ? she will now , once she comes onto stage , will be the youngest person to ever speak at ted . right ?
now , science and asking questions is about courage .
now she is the personification of courage , because she 's going to stand up here and talk to you all .
so amy , would you please come up ?
so amy 's going to help me tell the story of what we call the blackawton bees project , and first she 's going to tell you the question that they came up with . so go ahead , amy .
amy o 'toole : thank you , beau . we thought that it was easy to see the link between humans and apes in the way that we think , because we look alike .
but we wondered if there 's a possible link with other animals . it 'd be amazing if humans and bees thought similar , since they seem so different from us .
so we asked if humans and bees might solve complex problems in the same way .
really , we wanted to know if bees can also adapt themselves to new situations using previously learned rules and conditions . so what if bees can think like us ?
well , it 'd be amazing , since we 're talking about an insect with only one million brain cells .
but it actually makes a lot of sense they should , because bees , like us , can recognize a good flower regardless of the time of day , the light , the weather , or from any angle they approach it from .
bl : so the next step was to design an experiment , which is a game . so the kids went off and they designed this experiment , and so -- well , game -- and so , amy , can you tell us what the game was , and the puzzle that you set the bees ?
ao : the puzzle we came up with was an if-then rule .
we asked the bees to learn not just to go to a certain color , but to a certain color flower only when it 's in a certain pattern .
they were only rewarded if they went to the yellow flowers if the yellow flowers were surrounded by the blue , or if the blue flowers were surrounded by the yellow .
now there 's a number of different rules the bees can learn to solve this puzzle . the interesting question is , which ?
what was really exciting about this project was we , and beau , had no idea whether it would work .
it was completely new , and no one had done it before , including adults .
bl : including the teachers , and that was really hard for the teachers .
it 's easy for a scientist to go in and not have a clue what he 's doing , because that 's what we do in the lab , but for a teacher not to know what 's going to happen at the end of the day -- so much of the credit goes to dave strudwick , who was the collaborator on this project . okay ?
so i 'm not going to go through the whole details of the study because actually you can read about it , but the next step is observation . so here are some of the students doing the observations . they 're recording the data of where the bees fly .
dave strudwick : so what we 're going to do - student : 5c .
dave strudwick : is she still going up here ? student : yeah .
dave strudwick : so you keep track of each . student : henry , can you help me here ?
bl : " can you help me , henry ? " what good scientist says that , right ?
student : there 's two up there .
and three in here .
bl : right ? so we 've got our observations . we 've got our data .
they do the simple mathematics , averaging , etc . , etc .
and now we want to share . that 's the next step .
so we 're going to write this up and try to submit this
for publication . right ? so we have to write it up .
so we go , of course , to the pub . all right ?
the one on the left is mine , okay ?
now , i tell them , a paper has four different sections : an introduction , a methods , a results , a discussion .
the introduction says , what 's the question and why ?
methods , what did you do ? results , what was the observation ?
and the discussion is , who cares ? right ?
that 's a science paper , basically .
so the kids give me the words , right ? i put it into a narrative , which means that this paper is written in kidspeak .
it 's not written by me . it 's written by amy and the other students in the class . as a consequence , this science paper begins , " once upon a time ... " the results section , it says : " training phase , the puzzle ... duh duh duuuuuhhh . " right ?
and the methods , it says , " then we put the bees into the fridge , " smiley face . right ?
this is a science paper . we 're going to try to get it published .
so here 's the title page . we have a number of authors there .
all the ones in bold are eight to 10 years old .
the first author is blackawton primary school , because if it were ever referenced , it would be " blackawton et al , " and not one individual . so we submit it to a public access journal , and it says this . it said many things , but it said this .
" i 'm afraid the paper fails our initial quality control checks in several different ways . " in other words , it starts off " once upon a time , " the figures are in crayon , etc .
so we said , we 'll get it reviewed . so i sent it to dale purves , who is at the national academy of science , one of the leading neuroscientists in the world , and he says , " this is the most original science paper i have ever read " - - " and it certainly deserves wide exposure . " larry maloney , expert in vision , says , " the paper is magnificent .
the work would be publishable if done by adults . " so what did we do ? we send it back to the editor .
they say no .
so we asked larry and natalie hempel to write a commentary situating the findings for scientists , right , putting in the references , and we submit it to biology letters .
and there , it was reviewed by five independent referees , and it was published . okay ?
it took four months to do the science , two years to get it published .
typical science , actually , right ? so this makes amy and her friends the youngest published scientists in the world .
what was the feedback like ?
well , it was published two days before christmas , downloaded 30,000 times in the first day , right ?
it was the editors ' choice in science , which is a top science magazine .
it 's forever freely accessible by biology letters .
it 's the only paper that will ever be freely accessible by this journal .
last year , it was the second-most downloaded paper by biology letters , and the feedback from not just scientists and teachers but the public as well .
and i 'll just read one .
" i have read ' blackawton bees ' recently . i don 't have words to explain exactly how i am feeling right now .
what you guys have done is real , true and amazing .
curiosity , interest , innocence and zeal are the most basic and most important things to do science .
who else can have these qualities more than children ?
please congratulate your children 's team from my side . " so i 'd like to conclude with a physical metaphor .
can i do it on you ?
oh yeah , yeah , yeah , come on . yeah yeah . okay .
now , science is about taking risks , so this is an incredible risk , right ?
for me , not for him . right ? because we 've only done this once before .
and you like technology , right ?
shimon schocken : right , but i like myself .
bl : this is the epitome of technology . right . okay .
now ...
okay .
now , we 're going to do a little demonstration , right ?
you have to close your eyes , and you have to point where you hear me clapping . all right ?
okay , how about if everyone over there shouts . one , two , three ?
audience : brilliant . now , open your eyes . we 'll do it one more time .
everyone over there shout .
where 's the sound coming from ?
thank you very much .
what 's the point ? the point is what science does for us .
right ? we normally walk through life responding , but if we ever want to do anything different , we have to step into uncertainty . when he opened his eyes , he was able to see the world in a new way .
that 's what science offers us . it offers the possibility to step on uncertainty through the process of play , right ?
now , true science education i think should be about giving people a voice and enabling to express that voice , so i 've asked amy to be the last voice in this short story .
so , amy ?
ao : this project was really exciting for me , because it brought the process of discovery to life , and it showed me that anyone , and i mean anyone , has the potential to discover something new , and that a small question can lead into a big discovery .
changing the way a person thinks about something can be easy or hard . it all depends on the way the person feels about change .
but changing the way i thought about science was surprisingly easy . once we played the games and then started to think about the puzzle , i then realized that science isn 't just a boring subject , and that anyone can discover something new .
you just need an opportunity . my opportunity came in the form of beau , and the blackawton bee project .
thank you . bl : thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / van _ jones _ the _ economic _ injustice _ of _ plastic.html
van jones lays out a case against plastic pollution from the perspective of social justice . because plastic trash , he shows us , hits poor people and poor countries " first and worst , " with consequences we all share no matter where we live and what we earn . at tedxgpgp , he offers a few powerful ideas to help us reclaim our throwaway planet .
business , communication , global issues , green , plastic , poverty , science , tedx
1056
van jones : the economic injustice of plastic
i am honored to be here , and i 'm honored to talk about this topic , which i think is of grave importance .
we 've been talking a lot about the horrific impacts of plastic on the planet and on other species , but plastic hurts people too , especially poor people .
and both in the production of plastic , the use of plastic and the disposal of plastic , the people who have the bull 's-eye on their foreheads are poor people .
people got very upset when the bp oil spill happened for very good reason .
people thought about , " oh , my god .
this is terrible , this oil -- it 's in the water .
it 's going to destroy the living systems there .
people are going to be hurt .
this is a terrible thing , that the oil is going to hurt the people in the gulf . "
what people don 't think about is : what if the oil had made it safely to shore ?
what if the oil actually got where it was trying to go ?
not only would it have been burned in engines and added to global warming , but there 's a place called " cancer alley , " and the reason it 's called " cancer alley " is because the petrochemical industry takes that oil and turns it into plastic and , in the process , kills people .
it shortens the lives of the people who live there in the gulf .
so oil and petrochemicals are not just a problem where there 's a spill ; they 're a problem where there 's not .
and what we don 't often appreciate is the price that poor people pay for us to have these disposable products .
the other thing that we don 't often appreciate is it 's not just at the point of production that poor people suffer .
poor people also suffer at the point of use .
those of us who earn a certain income level , we have something called choice .
the reason why you want to work hard and have a job and not be poor and broke is so you can have choices , economic choices .
we actually get a chance to choose not to use products that have dangerous , poisonous plastic in them .
other people who are poor don 't have those choices .
so low-income people often are the ones who are buying the products that have those dangerous chemicals in them that their children are using .
those are the people who wind up actually ingesting a disproportionate amount of this poisonous plastic and using it .
and people say , " well , they should just buy a different product . "
well , the problem with being poor is you don 't have those choices .
you often have to buy the cheapest products .
the cheapest products are often the most dangerous .
and if that weren 't bad enough , if it wasn 't just the production of plastic that 's giving people cancer in places like " cancer alley " and shortening lives and hurting poor kids at the point of use , at the point of disposal , once again , it 's poor people who bear the burden .
often , we think we 're doing a good thing .
you 're in your office , and you 're drinking your bottled water , or whatever it is , and you think to yourself , " hey , i 'm going to throw this away .
no , i 'm going to be virtuous .
i 'm going to put it in the blue bin . "
you think , " i put mine in the blue bin , "
and then you look at your colleague and say , " why , you cretin .
you put yours in the white bin . "
and we use that as a moral tickle .
we feel so good about ourselves .
maybe i 'll feel good myself .
not you , but i feel this way .
and so we kind of have this kind of moral feel-good moment .
but if we were to be able to follow that little bottle on its journey , we would be shocked to discover that , all too often , that bottle is going to be put on a boat ,
it 's going to go all the way across the ocean at some expense ,
and it 's going to wind up in a developing country -- often china .
i think in our minds we imagine somebody 's going to take the little bottle , say , " oh , little bottle . we 're so happy to see you , little bottle . "
" you 've served so well . "
he 's given a little bottle massage , a little bottle medal .
and say , " what would you like to do next ? "
the little bottle says , " i just don 't know . "
but that 's not actually what happens .
that bottle winds up getting burned .
recycling of plastic in many developing countries means the incineration of the plastic , the burning of the plastic , which releases incredible toxic chemicals and , once again , kills people .
and so poor people who are making these products in petrochemical centers like " cancer alley , " poor people who are consuming these products disproportionately , and then poor people , who even at the tail end of the recycling are having their lives shortened , are all being harmed greatly by this addiction that we have to disposability .
now you think to yourself -- because i know how you are -- you say , " that sure is terrible for those poor people .
it 's just awful , those poor people .
i hope someone does something to help them . "
but what we don 't understand is -- is , here we are in los angeles .
we worked very hard to get the smog reduction happening here in los angeles .
but guess what ?
because they 're doing so much dirty production in asia now , because the environmental laws don 't protect the people in asia now , almost all of the clean air gains and the toxic air gains that we 've achieved here in california have been wiped out by dirty air coming over from asia .
so , we all are being hit . we all are being impacted .
it 's just the poor people get hit first and worst .
but the dirty production , the burning of toxins , the lack of environmental standards in asia is actually creating so much dirty air pollution it 's coming across the ocean and has erased our gains here in california .
we 're back where we were in the 1970s .
and so we 're on one planet , and we have to be able to get to the root of these problems .
well the root of this problem , in my view , is the idea of disposability itself .
you see , if you understand the link between what we 're doing to poison and pollute the planet and what we 're doing to poor people , you arrive at a very troubling , but also very helpful , insight : in order to trash the planet , you have to trash people .
but if you create a world where you don 't trash people , you can 't trash the planet .
so now we are at a moment where the coming together of social justice as an idea and ecology as an idea , we finally can now see that they are really , at the end of the day , one idea .
and it 's the idea that we don 't have disposable anything .
we don 't have disposable resources .
we don 't have disposable species .
and we don 't have disposable people either .
we don 't have a throwaway planet , and we don 't have throwaway children -- it 's all precious .
and as we all begin to come back to that basic understanding , new opportunities for action begin to emerge .
biomimicry , which is something that is an emerging science , winds up being a very important social justice idea .
people who are just learning about this stuff , biomimicry means respecting the wisdom of all species .
democracy , by the way , means respecting the wisdom of all people -- and we 'll get to that .
but biomimicry means respecting the wisdom of all species .
it turns out we 're a pretty clever species .
this big cortex , or whatever , we 're pretty proud of ourselves .
but if we want to make something hard , we come up , " i know , i 'm going to make a hard substance .
i know , i 'm going to get vacuums and furnaces and drag stuff out of the ground and get things hot and poison and pollute , but i got this hard thing .
i 'm so clever , "
and you look behind you , and there 's destruction all around you .
but guess what ? you 're so clever , but you 're not as clever as a clam .
a clamshell 's hard .
there 's no vacuums . there 's no big furnaces . there 's no poison . there 's no pollution .
it turns out that our other species has figured out a long time ago how to create many of the things that we need using biological processes that nature knows how to use well .
well that insight of biomimicry , of our scientists finally realizing that we have as much to learn from other species . i don 't mean taking a mouse and sticking it with stuff .
i don 't mean looking at it from that way -- abusing the little species . i mean actually respecting them , respecting what they 've achieved .
that 's called biomimicry , and that opens the door to zero waste production , zero pollution production -- that we could actually enjoy a high quality of life , a high standard of living without trashing the planet .
well that idea of biomimicry , respecting the wisdom of all species , combined with the idea of democracy and social justice , respecting the wisdom and the worth of all people , would give us a different society .
we would have a different economy .
we would have a green society that dr. king would be proud of .
that should be the goal .
and the way that we get there is to first of all recognize that the idea of disposability not only hurts the species we 've talked about , but it even corrupts our own society .
we 're so proud to live here in california .
we just had this vote , and everybody 's like , " well , not in our state .
i don 't know what those other states were doing . "
just so proud .
and , yeah , i 'm proud , too .
but california , though we lead the world in some of the green stuff , we also , unfortunately , lead the world in some of the gulag stuff .
california has one of the highest incarceration rates of all the 50 states .
we have a moral challenge in this moment .
we are passionate about rescuing some dead materials from the landfill , but sometimes not as passionate about rescuing living beings , living people .
and i would say that we live in a country -- five percent of the world 's population , 25 percent of the greenhouse gases , but also 25 percent of the world 's prisoners .
one out of every four people locked up anywhere in the world is locked up right here in the united states .
so that is consistent with this idea that disposability is something we believe in .
and yet , as a movement that has to broaden its constituency , that has to grow , that has to reach out beyond our natural comfort zone , one of the challenges to the success of this movement , of getting rid of things like plastic and helping the economy shift , is people look at our movement with some suspicion .
and they ask a question , and the question is : how can these people be so passionate ?
a poor person , a low-income person , somebody in " cancer alley , " somebody in watts , somebody in harlem , somebody on an indian reservation , might say to themselves , and rightfully so , " how can these people be so passionate about making sure that a plastic bottle has a second chance in life , or an aluminum can has a second chance , and yet , when my child gets in trouble and goes to prison , he doesn 't get a second chance ? "
how can this movement be so passionate about saying we don 't have throwaway stuff , no throwaway dead materials , and yet accept throwaway lives and throwaway communities like " cancer alley ? "
and so we now get a chance to be truly proud of this movement .
when we take on topics like this , it gives us that extra call to reach out to other movements and to become more inclusive and to grow ,
and we can finally get out of this crazy dilemma that we 've been in .
most of you are good , softhearted people .
when you were younger , you cared about the whole world , and at some point somebody said you had to pick an issue , you had to boil your love down to an issue .
can 't love the whole world -- you 've got to work on trees , or you 've got to work on immigration .
you 've got to shrink it down and be about one issue .
and really , they fundamentally told you , " are you going to hug a tree , or are you going to hug a child ? pick .
are you going to hug a tree , or are you going to hug a child ? pick . "
well , when you start working on issues like plastic , you realize that the whole thing is connected , and luckily most of us are blessed to have two arms .
we can hug both .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / paul _ moller _ on _ the _ skycar.html
paul moller talks about the future of personal air travel -- the marriage of autos and flight that will give us true freedom to travel off-road . he shows two things he 's working on : the moller skycar and a passenger-friendly hovering disc .
design , engineering , invention , technology , transportation
429
paul moller on the skycar
many of you could ask the question , you know , why is a flying car , or maybe more accurately , a roadable aircraft , possible at this time ?
a number of years ago , mr. ford predicted that flying cars of some form would be available .
now , 60 years later , i 'm here to tell you why it 's possible .
when i was about five years old , not very much -- about a year after mr. ford made his predictions , i was living in a rural part of canada , on the side of a mountain in a very isolated area .
getting to school , for a kid that was actually pretty short for his age , through the canadian winter , was not a pleasant experience .
it was a trying and scary thing for a young kid to be going through .
at the end of my first year in school , in the summer of that year , i discovered a couple hummingbirds that were caught in a shed near my home .
they 'd worn themselves out , beating themselves against the window , and , well , they were easy to capture . i took them outside and as i let them go , that split second , even though they were very tired , that second i let them go they hovered for a second , then zipped off into the distance .
i thought , what a great way to get to school .
for a kid at that age , this was like infinite speed , disappearing , and i was very inspired by that .
and so the next -- over the next six decades , believe it or not , i 've built a number of aircraft , with the goal of creating something that could do for you , or me , what the hummingbird does , and give you that flexibility .
i 've called this vehicle , generically , a volantor , after the latin word " volant , " meaning , to fly in a light , nimble manner .
volantor-like helicopter , perhaps .
the faa , the controlling body above all , calls it a " powered lift aircraft . "
and they 've actually issued a pilot 's license -- a powerlift pilot 's license -- for this type of aircraft .
it 's closer than you think . it 's kind of remarkable when you consider that there are no operational powered lift aircraft .
so for once , perhaps , the government is ahead of itself .
the press calls my particular volantor a " skycar . "
this is a little bit earlier version of it , that 's why it 's given the x designation , but it 's a four-passenger aircraft that could take off vertically , like a helicopter -- therefore it doesn 't need an airfield .
on the ground , it 's powered electrically .
it 's actually classified as a motorcycle because of the three wheels , which is a great asset because it allows you , theoretically , to use this on the highways in most states , and actually in all cities .
so that 's an asset because if you 've got to deal with the crash protection issues of the automobile , forget it -- you 're never going to fly it .
one could say that a helicopter does pretty much what the hummingbird does , and gets around in much the same way , and it 's true , but a helicopter is a very complex device .
it 's expensive -- so expensive that very few people could own or use it .
it 's often been described because of its fragile nature and its complexity , as a series of parts -- a large number of parts -- flying in formation .
another difference , and i have to describe this , because it 's very personal , another great difference between the helicopter and the volantor -- in my case the skycar volantor -- is the experience that i 've had in flying both of those .
in a helicopter you feel -- and it 's still a remarkable sensation -- you feel like you 're being hauled up from above by a vibrating crane .
when you get in the skycar -- and i can tell you , there 's only one other person that 's flown it , but he had the same sensation -- you really feel like you 're being lifted up by a magic carpet , without any vibration whatsoever . the sensation is unbelievable .
and it 's been a great motivator .
i only get to fly this vehicle occasionally , and only when i can persuade my stockholders to let me do so , but it 's still one of those wonderful experiences that reward you for all that time .
what we really need is something to replace the automobile for those 50-plus mile trips .
very few people realize that 50 mile-plus trips make up 85 percent of the miles traveled in america .
if we can get rid of that , then the highways will now be useful to you , as contrasted by what 's happening in many parts of the world today .
on this next slide , is an interesting history of what we really have seen in infrastructure , because whether i give you a perfect skycar , the perfect vehicle for use , it 's going to have very little value to you unless you 've got a system to use it in .
i 'm sure any of you have asked the question , yeah , are there great things up there -- what am i going to do , get up there ?
it 's bad enough on a highway , what 's it going to be like to be in the air ?
this world that you 're going to be talking about tomorrow is going to be completely integrated . you 're not going to be a pilot , you 're going to be a passenger .
and it 's the infrastructure that really determines whether this process goes forward .
i can tell you , technically we can build skycars -- my god , we went to the moon !
the technology there was much more difficult than what i 'm dealing with here .
but we have to have these priority changes , we have to have infrastructure to go with this .
historically you see that we got around 200 years ago by canals , and as that system disappeared , were replaced by railroads .
as that disappeared we came in with highways .
but if you look at that top corner -- the highway system -- you see where we are today . highways are no longer being built , and that 's a fact . you won 't see any additional highways in the next 10 years .
however , the next 10 years , if like the last 10 years , we 're going to see 30 percent more traffic .
and where is that going to lead you to ?
so the issue then , i 've often asked , is when is it going to happen ?
when are we going to be able to have these vehicles ?
and of course , if you ask me , i 'm going to give you a really optimistic view .
after all , i 've been spending 60 years here believing it 's going to happen tomorrow .
so , i 'm not going to quote myself on this .
i 'd prefer to quote someone else , who testified with me before congress , and in his position as head of nasa put forward this particular vision of the future of this type of aircraft .
now i would argue , actually , if you look at the fact that on the highways today , you 're only averaging about 30 miles per hour -- on average , according to the dot -- the skycar travels at over 300 miles an hour , up to 25,000 feet .
and so , in effect , you could see perhaps a tenfold increase in the ability to get around as far as speed is concerned .
unbeknownst to many of you , the highway in the sky that i 'm talking about here has been under construction for 10 years .
it makes use of the gps -- you 're familiar with gps in your automobile , but you may not be familiar with the fact that there 's a gps u.s. , there 's a russian gps , and there 's a new gps system going to europe , called galileo .
with those three systems , you have what is always necessary -- a level of redundancy that says , if one system fails , you 'll still have a way to make sure that you 're being controlled .
because if you 're in this world , where computers are controlling what you 're doing , it 's going to be very critical that something can 't fail on you .
how would a trip in a skycar work ?
well , you can 't right now take off from your home because it 's too noisy .
i mean to be able to take off from your home , you 'd have to be extremely quiet .
but it 's still fairly quiet .
you 'd motor , electrically , to a vertiport , which may be a few blocks , maybe even a few miles away .
this is clearly , as i said earlier , a roadable aircraft , and you 're not going to spend that much time on the road .
after all , if you can fly like that , why are you going to drive around on a highway ?
go to a local vertiport , plug in your destination , delivered almost like a passenger .
you can play computer games , you can sleep , you can read on the way .
this is the world -- there won 't be you as a pilot . and i know the pilots in the audience aren 't going to like that -- and i 've had a lot of bad feedback from people who want to be up there , flying around and experiencing that .
and of course , i suppose like recreational parks you can still do that .
but the vehicle itself is going to be a very , very controlled environment .
or it 's going to have no use to you as a person who might use such a system .
we flew the first vehicle for the international press in 1965 , when i really got it started .
i was a professor at the u.c. davis system , and i got a lot of excitement around this , and i was able to fund the initiation of the program back in that time .
and then through the various years we invented various vehicles .
actually the critical point was in 1989 , when we demonstrated the stability of this vehicle -- how completely stable it was in all circumstances , which is of course very critical .
still not a practical vehicle during all of this , but moving in the right direction , we believe .
finally , in the early part of -- or actually the middle of 2002 , we flew the 400 -- m400 , which was the four-passenger vehicle .
in this case here , we 're flying it remotely , as we always did at the beginning .
and we had very small power plants in it at this time .
we are now installing larger powerplants , which will make it possible for me to get back on board .
a vertical-takeoff aircraft is not the safest vehicle during the test flight program .
there 's an old adage that applied for the years between 1950s and 1970s , when every aeronautical company was working on vertical-takeoff aircraft .
a vertical-takeoff aircraft needs an artificial stabilization system -- that 's essential .
at least for the hover , and the low-speed flight .
if that single-stability system , that brain that flies that aircraft , fails , or if the engine fails , that vehicle crashes . there is no option to that .
and the adage that i 'm referring to , that applied at that time , was that nothing comes down faster than a vtol aircraft upside down .
that 's a macabre comment because we lost a lot of pilots .
in fact , the aircraft companies gave up on vertical-takeoff aircraft more or less for a number of years .
and there 's really only one operational aircraft in the world today that 's a vertical-takeoff aircraft -- as distinct from a helicopter -- and that 's the hawker harrier jump jet .
a vertical-takeoff aircraft , like the hummingbird , has a very high metabolism , which means it requires a lot of energy .
getting that energy is very , very difficult . it all comes down to that power plant -- how to get a large amount of power in a small package .
fortunately , dr. felix wankel invented the rotary engine .
a very unique engine -- it 's round , it 's small , it 's vibration-free .
it fits exactly where we need to fit it , right in the center of the hubs of the ducts in the system -- very critical . in fact that engine -- for those who are into the automobile -- know that it recently is applied to the rx8 -- the mazda .
and that sportscar won sports car of the year .
wonderful engine .
in that application , it generates one horsepower per pound , which is twice as good as your car engine today , but only half of what we need .
my company has spent 35 years and many millions of dollars taking that rotary engine , which was invented in the late ' 50s , and getting it to the point that we get over two horsepower per pound , reliably , and critical .
we actually get 175 horsepower into one cubic foot .
we have eight engines in this vehicle . we have four computers . we have two parachutes .
redundancy is the critical issue here .
if you want to stay alive you 've got to have backups .
and we have actually flown this vehicle and lost an engine , and continued to hover .
the computers back up each other . there 's a voting system -- if one computer is not agreeing with the other three , it 's kicked out of the system .
and then you have three -- you still have the triple redundancy .
if one of those fails , you still have a second chance .
if you stick around , then good luck .
there won 't be a third chance .
the parachutes are there -- hopefully , more for psychological than real reasons , but they will be an ultimate backup if it comes to that .
i 'd like to show you an animation in this next one , which is one element of the skycar 's use , but it 's one that demonstrates how it could be used .
you could think of it personally in your own terms , of how you might use it .
video : skycar dispatched , launch rescue vehicle for san francisco .
paul moller : i believe that personal transportation in something like the skycar , probably in another volantor form as well , will be a significant part of our lives , as dr. goldin says , within the next 10 years .
and it 's going to change the demographics in a very significant way .
if you can live 75 miles from san francisco and get there in 15 minutes , you 're going to sell your 700,000-dollar apartment , buy an upscale home on the side of a mountain , buy a skycar , which i think would be priced at that time perhaps in the area of 100,000 dollars , put money in the bank ...
that 's a very significant incentive for getting out of san francisco .
but you better be the first one out of town as the real estate values go to hell .
developing the skycar has been a real challenge .
obviously i 'm dependent on a lot of other people believing in what i 'm doing -- both financially and in technical help .
and that has -- you run into situations where you have this great acceptance of what you 're doing , and a lot of rejection of the same kind of thing .
i characterized this emerging technology in an aphorism , as it 's described , which really talks about what i 've experienced , and i 'm sure what other people may have experienced in emerging technologies .
there 's an interesting poll that came out recently under nas -- i think it 's msnbc -- in which they asked the question , " are you in the market for a volantor ? "
twenty-three percent said , " yes , as soon as possible . "
forty-seven percent -- yes , as soon as they could -- price could come down .
twenty-three percent said , " as soon as it 's proven safe . "
only seven percent said that they wouldn 't consider buying a skycar .
i 'm encouraged by that . at least it makes me feel like , to some extent , it is becoming self-evident .
that we need an alternative to the automobile , at least for those 50-mile trips and more , so that the highways become usable in today 's world .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eric _ giler _ demos _ wireless _ electricity.html
eric giler wants to untangle our wired lives with cable-free electric power . here , he covers what this sci-fi tech offers , and demos mit 's breakthrough version , witricity -- a near-to-market invention that may soon recharge your cell phone , car , pacemaker .
engineering , entrepreneur , future , science , technology
619
eric giler demos wireless electricity
early visions of wireless power actually were thought of by nikola tesla basically about 100 years ago .
the thought that you wouldn 't want to transfer electric power wirelessly , no one ever thought of that .
they thought , " who would use it if you didn 't ? "
and so , in fact , he actually set about doing a variety of things .
built the tesla coil . this tower was built on long island back at the beginning of the 1900s .
and the idea was , it was supposed to be able to transfer power anywhere on earth .
we 'll never know if this stuff worked . actually , i think the federal bureau of investigation took it down for security purposes , sometime in the early 1900s .
but the one thing that did come out of electricity is that we love this stuff so much .
if you just walk outside , there are trillions of dollars that have been invested in infrastructure around the world , putting up wires to get power from where it 's created to where it 's used .
the other thing is , we love batteries .
and for those of us that have an environmental element to us , there is something like 40 billion disposable batteries built every year
for power that , generally speaking , is used within a few inches or a few feet of where there is very inexpensive power .
so , before i got here , i thought , " you know , i am from north america .
we do have a little bit of a reputation in the united states . "
so i thought i 'd better look it up first .
so definition number six is the north american definition of the word " suck . "
wires suck , they really do .
think about it . whether that 's you in that picture or something under your desk .
the other thing is , batteries suck too .
and they really , really do .
do you ever wonder what happens to this stuff ?
40 billion of these things built .
this is what happens .
they fall apart , they disintegrate , and they end up here .
so when you talk about expensive power , the cost per kilowatt-hour to supply battery power to something is on the order of two to three hundred pounds .
think about that .
the most expensive grid power in the world is thousandths of that .
so fortunately , one of the other definitions of " suck " that was in there , it does create a vacuum .
and nature really does abhor a vacuum .
what happened back a few years ago was a group of theoretical physicists at mit actually came up with this concept of transferring power over distance .
basically they were able to light a 60 watt light bulb at a distance of about two meters .
it got about 50 percent of the efficiency --
by the way , that 's still a couple thousand times more efficient than a battery would be , to do the same thing .
but were able to light that , and do it very successfully . this was actually the experiment . so you can see the coils were somewhat larger .
the light bulb was a fairly simple task , from their standpoint .
this all came from a professor waking up at night to the third night in a row that his wife 's cellphone was beeping because it was running out of battery power .
and he was thinking , " with all the electricity that 's out there in the walls , why couldn 't some of that just come into the phone so i could get some sleep ? "
and he actually came up with this concept of resonant energy transfer .
but inside a standard transformer are two coils of wire . and those two coils of wire are really , really close to each other , and actually do transfer power magnetically and wirelessly , only over a very short distance .
what dr. soljacic figured out how to do was separate the coils in a transformer to a greater distance than the size of those transformers using this technology , which is not dissimilar from the way an opera singer shatters a glass on the other side of the room .
it 's a resonant phenomenon for which he actually received a macarthur fellowship award , which is nicknamed the genius award , last september , for his discovery .
so how does it work ?
imagine a coil . for those of you that are engineers , there 's a capacitor attached to it too .
and if you can cause that coil to resonate , what will happen is it will pulse at alternating current frequencies -- at a fairly high frequency , by the way .
and if you can bring another device close enough to the source , that will only work at exactly that frequency , you can actually get them to do what 's called strongly couple , and transfer magnetic energy between them .
and then what you do is , you start out with electricity , turn it into magnetic field , take that magnetic field , turn it back into electricity , and then you can use it .
number one question i get asked . i mean , people are worried about cellphones being safe .
you know . what about safety ?
the first thing is this is not a " radiative " technology .
it doesn 't radiate .
there aren 't electric fields here . it 's a magnetic field .
it stays within either what we call the source , or within the device .
and actually , the magnetic fields we 're using are basically about the same as the earth 's magnetic field .
we live in a magnetic field .
and the other thing that 's pretty cool about the technology is that it only transfers energy to things that work at exactly the same frequency .
and it 's virtually impossible in nature to make that happen .
then finally we have governmental bodies everywhere that will regulate everything we do .
they 've pretty much set field exposure limits , which all of the things in the stuff i 'll show you today mobile electronics .
home electronics .
those cords under your desk , i bet everybody here has something that looks like that or those batteries .
there are industrial applications .
and then finally , electric vehicles .
these electric cars are beautiful .
but who is going to want to plug them in ?
imagine driving into your garage -- we 've built a system to do this -- you drive into your garage , and the car charges itself ,
because there is a mat on the floor that 's plugged into the wall .
and it actually causes your car to charge safely and efficiently .
then there 's all kinds of other applications . implanted medical devices ,
where people don 't have to die of infections anymore if you can seal the thing up .
credit cards , robot vacuum cleaners .
so what i 'd like to do is take a couple minutes and show you , actually , how it works .
and what i 'm going to do is to show you pretty much what 's here .
you 've got a coil . that coil is connected to an r.f. amplifier that creates a high-frequency oscillating magnetic field .
we put one on the back of the television set .
by the way , i do make it look a little bit easier than it is .
there 's lots of electronics and secret sauce and all kinds of intellectual property that go into it .
but then what 's going to happen is , it will create a field . it will cause one to get created on the other side .
and if the demo gods are willing , in about 10 seconds or so we should see it .
the 10 seconds actually are because we --
i don 't know if any of you have ever thought about plugging a t.v. in when you use just a cord .
generally , you have to go over and hit the button . so i thought we put a little computer in it that has to wake up to tell it to do that .
so , i 'll plug that in .
it creates a magnetic field here .
it causes one to be created out here .
and as i said , in sort of about 10 seconds we should start to see ...
this is a commercially -- available color television set .
imagine , you get one of these things . you want to hang them on the wall .
how many people want to hang them on the wall ?
think about it . you don 't want those ugly cords coming down .
imagine if you can get rid of it .
the other thing i wanted to talk about was safety .
so , there is nothing going on . i 'm okay .
and i 'll do it again , just for safety 's sake .
almost immediately , though , people ask , " how small can you make this ? can you make this small enough ? "
because remember dr. soljacic 's original idea was his wife 's cellphone beeping .
so , i wanted to show you something .
we 're an equal opportunity designer of this sort of thing .
this a google g1 .
you know , it 's the latest thing that 's come out .
it runs the android operating system .
i think i heard somebody talk about that before .
it 's odd . it has a battery .
it also has coiled electronics that witricity has put into the back of it .
and if i can get the camera -- okay , great -- you 'll see , as i get sort of close ... you 're looking at a cellphone powered completely wirelessly .
and i know some of you are apple aficionados .
so , you know they don 't make it easy at apple to get inside their phones .
so we put a little sleeve on the back ,
but we should be able to get this guy to wake up too .
and those of you that have an iphone recognize the green center .
and nokia as well .
you 'll see that what we did there is put a little thing in the back , to do that , and it probably beeps , actually , as it goes on as well .
but they typically use it to light up the screen .
so , imagine these things could go ... they could go in your ceiling .
they could go in the floor . they could go , actually , underneath your desktop .
so that when you walk in or you come in from home , if you carry a purse , it works in your purse .
you never have to worry about plugging these things in again .
and think of what that would do for you .
so i think in closing , sort of in the immortal visions of the new yorker magazine , i thought i 'd put up one more slide .
and for those of you who can 't read it , it says , " it does appear to be some kind of wireless technology . "
so , thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jae _ rhim _ lee.html
here 's a powerful provocation from artist jae rhim lee . can we commit our bodies to a cleaner , greener earth , even after death ? naturally -- using a special burial suit seeded with pollution-gobbling mushrooms . yes , this just might be the strangest tedtalk you 'll ever see ...
ted fellows , arts , death , design , green , invention
1247
jae rhim lee : my mushroom burial suit
so i 'm here to explain why i 'm wearing these ninja pajamas .
and to do that , i 'd like to talk first about environmental toxins in our bodies .
so some of you may know about the chemical bisphenol a , bpa .
it 's a material hardener and synthetic estrogen that 's found in the lining of canned foods and some plastics .
so bpa mimics the body 's own hormones and causes neurological and reproductive problems .
and it 's everywhere .
a recent study found bpa in 93 percent of people six and older .
but it 's just one chemical .
the center for disease control in the u.s. says we have 219 toxic pollutants in our bodies , and this includes preservatives , pesticides and heavy metals like lead and mercury .
to me , this says three things .
first , don 't become a cannibal .
second , we are both responsible for and the victims of our own pollution .
and third , our bodies are filters and storehouses for environmental toxins .
so what happens to all these toxins when we die ?
the short answer is : they return to the environment in one way or another , continuing the cycle of toxicity .
but our current funeral practices make the situation much worse .
if you 're cremated , all those toxins i mentioned are released into the atmosphere .
and this includes 5,000 pounds of mercury from our dental fillings alone every year .
and in a traditional american funeral , a dead body is covered with fillers and cosmetics to make it look alive .
it 's then pumped with toxic formaldehyde to slow decomposition -- a practice which causes respiratory problems and cancer in funeral personnel .
so by trying to preserve our dead bodies , we deny death , poison the living and further harm the environment .
green or natural burials , which don 't use embalming , are a step in the right direction , but they don 't address the existing toxins in our bodies .
i think there 's a better solution .
i 'm an artist , so i 'd like to offer a modest proposal at the intersection of art , science and culture .
the infinity burial project , an alternative burial system that uses mushrooms to decompose and clean toxins in bodies .
the infinity burial project began a few years ago with a fantasy to create the infinity mushroom -- a new hybrid mushroom that would decompose bodies , clean the toxins and deliver nutrients to plant roots , leaving clean compost .
but i learned it 's nearly impossible to create a new hybrid mushroom .
i also learned that some of our tastiest mushrooms can clean environmental toxins in soil . so i thought maybe i could train an army of toxin-cleaning edible mushrooms to eat my body .
so today , i 'm collecting what i shed or slough off -- my hair , skin and nails -- and i 'm feeding these to edible mushrooms .
as the mushrooms grow , i pick the best feeders to become infinity mushrooms .
it 's a kind of imprinting and selective breeding process for the afterlife .
so when i die , the infinity mushrooms will recognize my body and be able to eat it .
all right , so for some of you , this may be really , really out there .
just a little .
i realize this is not the kind of relationship that we usually aspire to have with our food .
we want to eat , not be eaten by , our food .
but as i watch the mushrooms grow and digest my body , i imagine the infinity mushroom as a symbol of a new way of thinking about death and the relationship between my body and the environment .
see for me , cultivating the infinity mushroom is more than just scientific experimentation or gardening or raising a pet , it 's a step towards accepting the fact that someday i will die and decay .
it 's also a step towards taking responsibility for my own burden on the planet .
growing a mushroom is also part of a larger practice of cultivating decomposing organisms called decompiculture , a concept that was developed by an entomologist , timothy myles .
the infinity mushroom is a subset of decompiculture i 'm calling body decompiculture and toxin remediation -- the cultivation of organisms that decompose and clean toxins in bodies .
and now about these ninja pajamas .
once it 's completed , i plan to integrate the infinity mushrooms into a number of objects .
first , a burial suit infused with mushroom spores , the mushroom death suit .
i 'm wearing the second prototype of this burial suit .
it 's covered with a crocheted netting that is embedded with mushroom spores .
the dendritic pattern you see mimics the growth of mushroom mycelia , which are the equivalent of plant roots .
i 'm also making a decompiculture kit , a cocktail of capsules that contain infinity mushroom spores and other elements that speed decomposition and toxin remediation .
these capsules are embedded in a nutrient-rich jelly , a kind of second skin , which dissolves quickly and becomes baby food for the growing mushrooms .
so i plan to finish the mushroom and decompiculture kit in the next year or two , and then i 'd like to begin testing them , first with expired meat from the market and then with human subjects .
and believe it or not , a few people have offered to donate their bodies to the project to be eaten by mushrooms .
what i 've learned from talking to these folks is that we share a common desire to understand and accept death and to minimize the impact of our death on the environment .
i wanted to cultivate this perspective just like the mushrooms , so i formed the decompiculture society , a group of people called decompinauts who actively explore their postmortem options , seek death acceptance and cultivate decomposing organisms like the infinity mushroom .
the decompiculture society shares a vision of a cultural shift , from our current culture of death denial and body preservation to one of decompiculture , a radical acceptance of death and decomposition .
accepting death means accepting that we are physical beings who are intimately connected to the environment , as the research on environmental toxins confirms .
and the saying goes , we came from dust and will return to dust .
and once we understand that we 're connected to the environment , we see that the survival of our species depends on the survival of the planet .
i believe this is the beginning of true environmental responsibility .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / stephen _ lawler _ tours _ microsoft _ virtual _ earth.html
microsoft 's stephen lawler gives a whirlwind tour of virtual earth , moving up , down and through its hyper-real cityscapes with dazzlingly fluidity , a remarkable feat that requires staggering amounts of data to bring into focus .
design , map , microsoft , short talk , technology
139
stephen lawler tours microsoft virtual earth
what i want to talk to you about today is virtual worlds , digital globes , the 3-d web , the metaverse .
what does this all mean for us ?
what it means is the web is going to become an exciting place again .
it 's going to become super exciting as we transform to this highly immersive and interactive world . with graphics , computing power , low latencies , these types of applications and possibilities are going to stream rich data into your lives .
so the virtual earth initiative , and other types of these initiatives , are all about extending our current search metaphor .
when you think about it , we 're so constrained by browsing the web , remembering urls , saving favorites .
as we move to search , we rely on the relevance rankings , the web matching , the index crawling . but we want to use our brain !
we want to navigate , explore , discover information .
in order to do that , we have to put you as a user back in the driver 's seat .
we need cooperation between you and the computing network and the computer .
so what better way to put you back in the driver 's seat than to put you in the real world that you interact in every day ?
why not leverage the learnings that you 've been learning your entire life ?
so virtual earth is about starting off creating the first digital representation , comprehensive , of the entire world .
what we want to do is mix in all types of data .
tag it . attribute it . metadata . get the community to add local depth , global perspective , local knowledge .
so when you think about this problem , what an enormous undertaking . where do you begin ?
well , we collect data from satellites , from airplanes , from ground vehicles , from people .
this process is an engineering problem , a mechanical problem , a logistical problem , an operational problem .
here is an example of our aerial camera .
this is panchromatic . it 's actually four color cones .
in addition , it 's multi-spectral .
we collect four gigabits per second of data , if you can imagine that kind of data stream coming down .
that 's equivalent to a constellation of 12 satellites at highest res capacity .
we fly these airplanes at 5,000 feet in the air . you can see the camera on the front . we collect multiple viewpoints , vantage points , angles , textures . we bring all that data back in .
we sit here -- you know , think about the ground vehicles , the human scale -- what do you see in person ? we need to capture that up close to establish that what it 's like-type experience .
i bet many of you have seen the apple commercials , kind of poking at the pc for their brilliance and simplicity .
so a little unknown secret is -- did you see the one with the guy , he 's got the web cam ?
the poor pc guy . they 're duct taping his head . they 're just wrapping it on him .
well , a little unknown secret is his brother actually works on the virtual earth team .
. so they 've got a little bit of a sibling rivalry thing going on here .
but let me tell you -- it doesn 't affect his day job .
we think a lot of good can come from this technology .
this was after katrina . we were the first commercial fleet of airplanes to be cleared into the disaster impact zone .
we flew the area . we imaged it . we sent in people . we took pictures of interiors , disaster areas . we helped with the first responders , the search and rescue .
often the first time anyone saw what happened to their house was on virtual earth .
we made it all freely available on the web , just to -- it was obviously our chance of helping out with the cause .
when we think about how all this comes together , it 's all about software , algorithms and math .
you know , we capture this imagery but to build the 3-d models we need to do geo-positioning . we need to do geo-registering of the images .
we have to bundle adjust them . find tie points .
extract geometry from the images .
this process is a very calculated process .
in fact , it was always done manual .
hollywood would spend millions of dollars to do a small urban corridor for a movie because they 'd have to do it manually .
they 'd drive the streets with lasers called lidar .
they 'd collected information with photos . they 'd manually build each building .
we do this all through software , algorithms and math -- a highly automated pipeline creating these cities .
we took a decimal point off what it cost to build these cities , and that 's how we 're going to be able to scale this out and make this reality a dream .
we think about the user interface .
what does it mean to look at it from multiple perspectives ?
an ortho-view , a nadir-view . how do you keep the precision of the fidelity of the imagery while maintaining the fluidity of the model ?
i 'll wrap up by showing you the -- this is a brand-new peek i haven 't really shown into the lab area of virtual earth .
what we 're doing is -- people like this a lot , this bird 's eye imagery we work with . it 's this high resolution data .
but what we 've found is they like the fluidity of the 3-d model .
a child can navigate with an xbox controller or a game controller .
so here what we 're trying to do is we bring the picture and project it into the 3-d model space .
you can see all types of resolution . from here , i can slowly pan the image over .
i can get the next image . i can blend and transition .
by doing this i don 't lose the original detail . in fact , i might be recording history .
the freshness , the capacity . i can turn this image .
i can look at it from multiple viewpoints and angles .
what we 're trying to do is build a virtual world .
we hope that we can make computing a user model you 're familiar with , and really derive insights from you , from all different directions .
i thank you very much for your time .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / yasheng _ huang.html
economist yasheng huang compares china to india , and asks how china 's authoritarian rule contributed to its astonishing economic growth -- leading to a big question : is democracy actually holding india back ? huang 's answer may surprise you .
culture , economics , global issues , politics
1220
yasheng huang : does democracy stifle economic growth ?
my topic is economic growth in china and india .
and the question i want to explore with you is whether or not democracy has helped or has hindered economic growth .
you may say this is not fair , because i 'm selecting two countries to make a case against democracy .
actually , exactly the opposite is what i 'm going to do .
i 'm going to use these two countries to make an economic argument for democracy , rather than against democracy .
the first question there is why china has grown so much faster than india .
over the last 30 years , in terms of the gdp growth rates , china has grown at twice the rate of india .
in the last five years , the two countries have begun to converge somewhat in economic growth .
but over the last 30 years , china undoubtedly has done much better than india .
one simple answer is china has shanghai and india has mumbai .
look at the skyline of shanghai .
this is the pudong area .
the picture on india is the dharavi slum of mumbai in india .
the idea there behind these two pictures is that the chinese government can act above rule of law .
it can plan for the long-term benefits of the country and in the process , evict millions of people -- that 's just a small technical issue .
whereas in india , you cannot do that , because you have to listen to the public .
you 're being constrained by the public 's opinion .
even prime minister manmohan singh agrees with that view .
in an interview printed in the financial press of india , he said that he wants to make mumbai another shanghai .
this is an oxford-trained economist steeped in humanistic values , and yet he agrees with the high-pressure tactics of shanghai .
so let me call it the shanghai model of economic growth , that emphasizes the following features for promoting economic development : infrastructures , airports , highways , bridges , things like that .
and you need a strong government to do that , because you cannot respect private property rights .
you cannot be constrained by the public 's opinion .
you need also state ownership , especially of land assets , in order to build and roll out infrastructures very quickly .
the implication of that model is that democracy is a hindrance for economic growth , rather than a facilitator of economic growth .
here 's the key question . just how important are infrastructures for economic growth ?
this is a key issue .
if you believe that infrastructures are very important for economic growth , then you would argue a strong government is necessary to promote growth .
if you believe that infrastructures are not as important as many people believe , then you will put less emphasis on strong government .
so to illustrate that question , let me give you two countries .
and for the sake of brevity , i 'll call one country country 1 and the other country country 2 .
country 1 has a systematic advantage over country 2 in infrastructures .
country 1 has more telephones , and country 1 has a longer system of railways .
so if i were to ask you , " which is china and which is india , and which country has grown faster ? " if you believe in the infrastructure view , then you will say , " country 1 must be china .
they must have done better , in terms of economic growth .
and country 2 is possibly india . "
actually the country with more telephones is the soviet union , and the data referred to 1989 .
after the country reported very impressive statistics on telephones , the country collapsed .
that 's not too good .
the picture there is khrushchev .
i know that in 1989 he no longer ruled the soviet union , but that 's the best picture that i can find .
telephones , infrastructures do not guarantee you economic growth .
country 2 , that has fewer telephones , is china .
since 1989 , the country has performed at a double-digit rate every year for the last 20 years .
if you know nothing about china and the soviet union other than the fact about their telephones , you would have made a poor prediction about their economic growth in the next two decades .
country 1 , that has a longer system of railways , is actually india .
and country 2 is china .
this is a very little known fact about the two countries .
yes , today china has a huge infrastructure advantage over india .
but for many years , until the late 1990s , china had an infrastructure disadvantage vis-a-vis india .
in developing countries , the most common mode of transportation is the railways , and the british built a lot of railways in india .
india is the smaller of the two countries , and yet it had a longer system of railways until the late 1990s .
so clearly , infrastructure doesn 't explain why china did better before the late 1990s , as compared with india .
in fact , if you look at the evidence worldwide , the evidence is more supportive of the view that the infrastructure are actually the result of economic growth . the economy grows , government accumulates more resources , and the government can invest in infrastructure -- rather than infrastructure being a cause for economic growth .
and this is clearly the story of the chinese economic growth .
let me look at this question more directly .
is democracy bad for economic growth ?
now let 's turn to two countries , country a and country b .
country a , in 1990 , had about $ 300 per capita gdp as compared with country b , which had $ 460 in per capita gdp .
by 2008 , country a has surpassed country b with $ 700 per capita gdp as compared with $ 650 per capita gdp .
both countries are in asia .
if i were to ask you , " which are the two asian countries ?
and which one is a democracy ? " you may argue , " well , maybe country a is china and country b is india . "
in fact , country a is democratic india , and country b is pakistan -- the country that has a long period of military rule .
and it 's very common that we compare india with china .
that 's because the two countries have about the same population size .
but the more natural comparison is actually between india and pakistan .
those two countries are geographically similar .
they have a complicated , but shared common history .
by that comparison , democracy looks very , very good in terms of economic growth .
so why do economists fall in love with authoritarian governments ?
one reason is the east asian model .
in east asia , we have had successful economic growth stories such as korea , taiwan , hong kong and singapore .
some of these economies were ruled by authoritarian governments in the 60s and 70s and 1980s .
the problem with that view is like asking all the winners of lotteries , " have you won the lottery ? "
and they all tell you , " yes , we have won the lottery . "
and then you draw the conclusion the odds of winning the lottery are 100 percent .
the reason is you never go and bother to ask the losers who also purchased lottery tickets and didn 't end up winning the prize .
for each of these successful authoritarian governments in east asia , there 's a matched failure .
korea succeeded , north korea didn 't .
taiwan succeeded , china under mao zedong didn 't .
burma didn 't succeed .
the philippines didn 't succeed .
if you look at the statistical evidence worldwide , there 's really no support for the idea that authoritarian governments hold a systematic edge over democracies in terms of economic growth .
so the east asian model has this massive selection bias -- it is known as selecting on a dependent variable , something we always tell our students to avoid .
so exactly why did china grow so much faster ?
i will take you to the cultural revolution , when china went mad , and compare that country 's performance with india under indira gandhi .
the question there is : which country did better , china or india ?
china was during the cultural revolution .
it turns out even during the cultural revolution , china out-perfomed india in terms of gdp growth by an average of about 2.2 percent every year in terms of per capita gdp .
so that 's when china was mad . the whole country went mad .
it must mean that the country had something so advantageous to itself in terms of economic growth to overcome the negative effects of the cultural revolution .
the advantage the country had was human capital -- nothing else but human capital .
this is the world development index indicator data in the early 1990s .
and this is the earliest data that i can find .
the adult literacy rate in china is 77 percent as compared with 48 percent in india .
the contrast in literacy rates is especially sharp between chinese women and indian women .
i haven 't told you about the definition of literacy .
in china , the definition of literacy is the ability to read and write 1,500 chinese characters .
in india , the definition of literacy , operating definition of literacy , is the ability , the grand ability , to write your own name in whatever language you happen to speak .
the gap between the two countries in terms of literacy is much more substantial than the data here indicated .
if you go to other sources of data such as human development index , that data series , go back to the early 1970s , you see exactly the same contrast .
china held a huge advantage in terms of human capital vis-a-vis india .
life expectancies : as early as 1965 , china had a huge advantage in life expectancy .
on average , as a chinese in 1965 , you lived 10 years more than an average indian .
so if you have a choice between being a chinese and being an indian , you would want to become a chinese in order to live 10 years longer .
if you made that decision in 1965 , the down side of that is the next year we have the cultural revolution .
so you have to always think carefully about these decisions .
if you cannot chose your nationality , then you will want to become an indian man .
because , as an indian man , you have about two years of life expectancy advantage vis-a-vis indian women .
this is an extremely strange fact .
it 's very rare among countries to have this kind of pattern .
it shows the systematic discrimination and biases in the indian society against women .
the good news is , by 2006 , india has closed the gap between men and women in terms of life expectancy .
today , indian women have a sizable life expectancy edge over indian men .
so india is reverting to the normal .
but india still has a lot of work to do in terms of gender equality .
these are the two pictures taken of garment factories in guangdong province and garment factories in india .
in china , it 's all women .
60 to 80 percent of the workforce in china is women in the coastal part of the country , whereas in india , it 's all men .
financial times printed this picture of an indian textile factory with the title , " india poised to overtake china in textile . "
by looking at these two pictures , i say no , it won 't overtake china for a while .
if you look at other east asian countries , women there play a hugely important role in terms of economic take-off -- in terms of creating the manufacturing miracle associated with east asia .
india still has a long way to go to catch up with china .
then the issue is , what about the chinese political system ?
you talk about human capital , you talk about education and public health .
what about the political system ?
isn 't it true that the one-party political system has facilitated economic growth in china ?
actually , the answer is more nuanced and subtle than that .
it depends on a distinction that you draw between statics of the political system and the dynamics of the political system .
statically , china is a one-party system , authoritarian -- there 's no question about it .
dynamically , it has changed over time to become less authoritarian and more democratic .
when you explain change -- for example , economic growth ; economic growth is about change -- when you explain change , you use other things that have changed to explain change , rather than using the constant to explain change .
sometimes a fixed effect can explain change , but a fixed effect only explains changes in interaction with the things that change .
in terms of the political changes , they have introduced village elections .
they have increased the security of proprietors .
and they have increased the security with long-term land leases .
there are also financial reforms in rural china .
there is also a rural entrepreneurial revolution in china .
to me , the pace of political changes is too slow , too gradual .
and my own view is the country is going to face some substantial challenges , because they have not moved further and faster on political reforms .
but nevertheless , the system has moved in a more liberal direction , moved in a more democratic direction .
you can apply exactly the same dynamic perspective on india .
in fact , when india was growing at a hindu rate of growth -- about one percent , two percent a year -- that was when india was least democratic .
indira gandhi declared emergency rule in 1975 .
the indian government owned and operated all the tv stations .
a little-known fact about india in the 1990s is that the country not only has undertaken economic reforms , the country has also undertaken political reforms by introducing village self-rule , privatization of media and introducing freedom of information acts .
so the dynamic perspective fits both with china and in india in terms of the direction .
why do many people believe that india is still a growth disaster ?
one reason is they are always comparing india with china .
but china is a superstar in terms of economic growth .
if you are a nba player and you are always being compared to michael jordan , you 're going to look not so impressive .
but that doesn 't mean that you 're a bad basketball player .
comparing with a superstar is the wrong benchmark .
in fact , if you compare india with the average developing country , even before the more recent period of acceleration of indian growth -- now india is growing between eight and nine percent -- even before this period , india was ranked fourth in terms of economic growth among emerging economies .
this is a very impressive record indeed .
let 's think about the future : the dragon vis-a-vis the elephant .
which country has the growth momentum ?
china , i believe , still has some of the excellent raw fundamentals -- mostly the social capital , the public health , the sense of egalitarianism that you don 't find in india .
but i believe that india has the momentum .
it has the improving fundamentals . the government has invested in basic education , has invested in basic health .
i believe the government should do more , but nevertheless , the direction it is moving in is the right direction .
india has the right institutional conditions for economic growth , whereas china is still struggling with political reforms .
i believe that the political reforms are a must for china to maintain its growth .
and it 's very important to have political reforms , to have widely shared benefits of economic growth .
i don 't know whether that 's going to happen or not , but i 'm an optimist .
hopefully , five years from now , i 'm going to report to tedglobal that political reforms will happen in china .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / steven _ johnson _ where _ good _ ideas _ come _ from.html
people often credit their ideas to individual " eureka ! " moments . but steven johnson shows how history tells a different story . his fascinating tour takes us from the " liquid networks " of london 's coffee houses to charles darwin 's long , slow hunch to today 's high-velocity web .
collaboration , innovation , novel , science , technology
961
steven johnson : where good ideas come from
just a few minutes ago , i took this picture about 10 blocks from here .
this is the grand cafe here in oxford .
i took this picture because this turns out to be the first coffeehouse to open in england in 1650 .
that 's its great claim to fame ,
and i wanted to show it to you , not because i want to give you the kind of starbucks tour of historic england , but rather because the english coffeehouse was crucial to the development and spread of one of the great intellectual flowerings of the last 500 years , what we now call the enlightenment .
and the coffeehouse played such a big role in the birth of the enlightenment , in part , because of what people were drinking there .
because , before the spread of coffee and tea through british culture , what people drank -- both elite and mass folks drank -- day-in and day-out , from dawn until dusk was alcohol .
alcohol was the daytime beverage of choice .
you would drink a little beer with breakfast and have a little wine at lunch , a little gin -- particularly around 1650 -- and top it off with a little beer and wine at the end of the day .
that was the healthy choice -- right -- because the water wasn 't safe to drink .
and so , effectively until the rise of the coffeehouse , you had an entire population that was effectively drunk all day .
and you can imagine what that would be like , right , in your own life -- and i know this is true of some of you -- if you were drinking all day , and then you switched from a depressant to a stimulant in your life , you would have better ideas .
you would be sharper and more alert .
and so it 's not an accident that a great flowering of innovation happened as england switched to tea and coffee .
but the other thing that makes the coffeehouse important is the architecture of the space .
it was a space where people would get together from different backgrounds , different fields of expertise , and share .
it was a space , as matt ridley talked about , where ideas could have sex .
this was their conjugal bed , in a sense --
ideas would get together there .
and an astonishing number of innovations from this period have a coffeehouse somewhere in their story .
i 've been spending a lot of time thinking about coffeehouses for the last five years , because i 've been kind of on this quest to investigate this question of where good ideas come from .
what are the environments that lead to unusual levels of innovation , unusual levels of creativity ?
what 's the kind of environmental -- what is the space of creativity ?
and what i 've done is i 've looked at both environments like the coffeehouse ; i 've looked at media environments , like the world wide web , that have been extraordinarily innovative ; i 've gone back to the history of the first cities ; i 've even gone to biological environments , like coral reefs and rainforests , that involve unusual levels of biological innovation ; and what i 've been looking for is shared patterns , kind of signature behavior that shows up again and again in all of these environments .
are there recurring patterns that we can learn from , that we can take and kind of apply to our own lives , or our own organizations , or our own environments to make them more creative and innovative ?
and i think i 've found a few .
but what you have to do to make sense of this and to really understand these principles is you have to do away with a lot of the way in which our conventional metaphors and language steers us towards certain concepts of idea-creation .
we have this very rich vocabulary to describe moments of inspiration .
we have the kind of the flash of insight , the stroke of insight , we have epiphanies , we have " eureka ! " moments , we have the lightbulb moments , right ?
all of these concepts , as kind of rhetorically florid as they are , share this basic assumption , which is that an idea is a single thing , it 's something that happens often in a wonderful illuminating moment .
but in fact , what i would argue and what you really need to kind of begin with is this idea that an idea is a network on the most elemental level .
i mean , this is what is happening inside your brain .
an idea -- a new idea -- is a new network of neurons firing in sync with each other inside your brain .
it 's a new configuration that has never formed before .
and the question is : how do you get your brain into environments where these new networks are going to be more likely to form ?
and it turns out that , in fact , the kind of network patterns of the outside world mimic a lot of the network patterns of the internal world of the human brain .
so the metaphor i 'd like the use i can take from a story of a great idea that 's quite recent -- a lot more recent than the 1650s .
a wonderful guy named timothy prestero , who has a company called ... an organization called design that matters .
they decided to tackle this really pressing problem of , you know , the terrible problems we have with infant mortality rates in the developing world .
one of the things that 's very frustrating about this is that we know , by getting modern neonatal incubators into any context , if we can keep premature babies warm , basically -- it 's very simple -- we can halve infant mortality rates in those environments .
so , the technology is there .
these are standard in all the industrialized worlds .
the problem is , if you buy a $ 40,000 incubator , and you send it off to a mid-sized village in africa , it will work great for a year or two years , and then something will go wrong and it will break , and it will remain broken forever , because you don 't have a whole system of spare parts , and you don 't have the on-the-ground expertise to fix this $ 40,000 piece of equipment .
and so you end up having this problem where you spend all this money getting aid and all these advanced electronics to these countries , and then it ends up being useless .
so what prestero and his team decided to do is to look around and see : what are the abundant resources in these developing world contexts ?
and what they noticed was they don 't have a lot of dvrs , they don 't have a lot of microwaves , but they seem to do a pretty good job of keeping their cars on the road .
there 's a toyota forerunner on the street in all these places .
they seem to have the expertise to keep cars working .
so they started to think , " could we build a neonatal incubator that 's built entirely out of automobile parts ? "
and this is what they ended up coming with .
it 's called a " neonurture device . "
from the outside , it looks like a normal little thing you 'd find in a modern , western hospital .
in the inside , it 's all car parts .
it 's got a fan , it 's got headlights for warmth , it 's got door chimes for alarm --
it runs off a car battery .
and so all you need is the spare parts from your toyota and the ability to fix a headlight , and you can repair this thing .
now , that 's a great idea , but what i 'd like to say is that , in fact , this is a great metaphor for the way that ideas happen .
we like to think our breakthrough ideas , you know , are like that $ 40,000 , brand new incubator , state-of-the-art technology , but more often than not , they 're cobbled together from whatever parts that happen to be around nearby .
we take ideas from other people , from people we 've learned from , from people we run into in the coffee shop , and we stitch them together into new forms and we create something new .
that 's really where innovation happens .
and that means that we have to change some of our models of what innovation and deep thinking really looks like , right .
i mean , this is one vision of it .
another is newton and the apple , when newton was at cambridge .
this is a statue from oxford .
you know , you 're sitting there thinking a deep thought , and the apple falls from the tree , and you have the theory of gravity .
in fact , the spaces that have historically led to innovation tend to look like this , right .
this is hogarth 's famous painting of a kind of political dinner at a tavern , but this is what the coffee shops looked like back then .
this is the kind of chaotic environment where ideas were likely to come together , where people were likely to have new , interesting , unpredictable collisions -- people from different backgrounds .
so , if we 're trying to build organizations that are more innovative , we have to build spaces that -- strangely enough -- look a little bit more like this .
this is what your office should look like , is part of my message here .
and one of the problems with this is that people are actually -- when you research this field -- people are notoriously unreliable , when they actually kind of self-report on where they have their own good ideas , or their history of their best ideas .
and a few years ago , a wonderful researcher named kevin dunbar decided to go around and basically do the big brother approach to figuring out where good ideas come from .
he went to a bunch of science labs around the world and videotaped everyone as they were doing every little bit of their job .
so when they were sitting in front of the microscope , when they were talking to their colleague at the water cooler , and all these things .
and he recorded all of these conversations and tried to figure out where the most important ideas , where they happened .
and when we think about the classic image of the scientist in the lab , we have this image -- you know , they 're pouring over the microscope , and they see something in the tissue sample .
and " oh , eureka , " they 've got the idea .
what happened actually when dunbar kind of looked at the tape is that , in fact , almost all of the important breakthrough ideas did not happen alone in the lab , in front of the microscope .
they happened at the conference table at the weekly lab meeting , when everybody got together and shared their kind of latest data and findings , oftentimes when people shared the mistakes they were having , the error , the noise in the signal they were discovering .
and something about that environment -- and i 've started calling it the " liquid network , " where you have lots of different ideas that are together , different backgrounds , different interests , jostling with each other , bouncing off each other -- that environment is , in fact , the environment that leads to innovation .
the other problem that people have is they like to condense their stories of innovation down to kind of shorter time frames .
so they want to tell the story of the " eureka ! " moment .
they want to say , " there i was , i was standing there and i had it all suddenly clear in my head . " but in fact , if you go back and look at the historical record , it turns out that a lot of important ideas have very long incubation periods --
i call this the " slow hunch . "
we 've heard a lot recently about hunch and instinct and blink-like sudden moments of clarity , but in fact , a lot of great ideas linger on , sometimes for decades , in the back of people 's minds .
they have a feeling that there 's an interesting problem , but they don 't quite have the tools yet to discover them .
they spend all this time working on certain problems , but there 's another thing lingering there that they 're interested in , but they can 't quite solve .
darwin is a great example of this .
darwin himself , in his autobiography , tells the story of coming up with the idea for natural selection as a classic " eureka ! " moment .
he 's in his study , it 's october of 1838 , and he 's reading malthus , actually , on population .
and all of a sudden , the basic algorithm of natural selection kind of pops into his head and he says , " ah , at last , i had a theory with which to work . "
that 's in his autobiography .
about a decade or two ago , a wonderful scholar named howard gruber went back and looked at darwin 's notebooks from this period .
and darwin kept these copious notebooks where he wrote down every little idea he had , every little hunch .
and what gruber found was that darwin had the full theory of natural selection for months and months and months before he had his alleged epiphany , reading malthus in october of 1838 .
there are passages where you can read it , and you think you 're reading from a darwin textbook , from the period before he has this epiphany .
and so what you realize is that darwin , in a sense , had the idea , he had the concept , but was unable of fully thinking it yet .
and that is actually how great ideas often happen ; they fade into view over long periods of time .
now the challenge for all of us is : how do you create environments that allow these ideas to have this kind of long half-life , right ?
it 's hard to go to your boss and say , " i have an excellent idea for our organization .
it will be useful in 2020 .
could you just give me some time to do that ? " now a couple of companies -- like google -- they have innovation time off , 20 percent time , where , in a sense , those are hunch-cultivating mechanisms in an organization .
but that 's a key thing .
and the other thing is to allow those hunches to connect with other people 's hunches ; that 's what often happens .
you have half of an idea , somebody else has the other half , and if you 're in the right environment , they turn into something larger than the sum of their parts .
so , in a sense , we often talk about the value of protecting intellectual property , you know , building barricades , having secretive r & d labs , patenting everything that we have , so that those ideas will remain valuable , and people will be incentivized to come up with more ideas , and the culture will be more innovative .
but i think there 's a case to be made that we should spend at least as much time , if not more , valuing the premise of connecting ideas and not just protecting them .
and i 'll leave you with this story , which i think captures a lot of these values , and it 's just wonderful kind of tale of innovation and how it happens in unlikely ways .
it 's october of 1957 , and sputnik has just launched , and we 're in laurel maryland , at the applied physics lab associated with johns hopkins university .
and it 's monday morning , and the news has just broken about this satellite that 's now orbiting the planet .
and of course , this is nerd heaven , right ?
there are all these physics geeks who are there thinking , " oh my gosh ! this is incredible . i can 't believe this has happened . "
and two of them , two 20-something researchers at the apl are there at the cafeteria table having an informal conversation with a bunch of their colleagues .
and these two guys are named guier and weiffenbach .
and they start talking , and one of them says , " hey , has anybody tried to listen for this thing ?
there 's this , you know , man-made satellite up there in outer space that 's obviously broadcasting some kind of signal .
we could probably hear it , if we tune in . " and so they ask around to a couple of their colleagues , and everybody 's like , " no , i hadn 't thought of doing that .
that 's an interesting idea . " and it turns out weiffenbach is kind of an expert in microwave reception , and he 's got a little antennae set up with an amplifier in his office .
and so guier and weiffenbach go back to weiffenbach 's office , and they start kind of noodling around -- hacking , as we might call it now .
and after a couple of hours , they actually start picking up the signal , because the soviets made sputnik very easy to track .
it was right at 20 mhz , so you could pick it up really easily , because they were afraid that people would think it was a hoax , basically .
so they made it really easy to find it .
so these two guys are sitting there listening to this signal , and people start kind of coming into the office and saying , " wow , that 's pretty cool . can i hear ? wow , that 's great . "
and before long , they think , " well jeez , this is kind of historic .
we may be the first people in the united states to be listening to this .
we should record it . " and so they bring in this big , clunky analog tape recorder and they start recording these little bleep , bleeps .
and they start writing the kind of date stamp , time stamps for each little bleep that they record .
and they they start thinking , " well gosh , you know , we 're noticing small little frequency variations here .
we could probably calculate the speed that the satellite is traveling , if we do a little basic math here using the doppler effect . "
and then they played around with it a little bit more , and they talked to a couple of their colleagues who had other kind of specialties .
and they said , " jeez , you know , we think we could actually take a look at the slope of the doppler effect to figure out the points at which the satellite is closest to our antennae and the points at which it 's farthest away .
that 's pretty cool . " and eventually , they get permission -- this is all a little side project that hadn 't been officially part of their job description .
they get permission to use the new , you know , univac computer that takes up an entire room that they 'd just gotten at the apl .
they run some more of the numbers , and at the end of about three or four weeks , turns out they have mapped the exact trajectory of this satellite around the earth , just from listening to this one little signal , going off on this little side hunch that they 'd been inspired to do over lunch one morning .
a couple weeks later their boss , frank mcclure , pulls them into the room and says , " hey , you guys , i have to ask you something about that project you were working on .
you 've figured out an unknown location of a satellite orbiting the planet from a known location on the ground .
could you go the other way ?
could you figure out an unknown location on the ground , if you knew the location of the satellite ? " and they thought about it and they said , " well , i guess maybe you could . let 's run the numbers here . "
so they went back , and they thought about it .
and they came back and said , " actually , it 'll be easier . "
and he said , " oh , that 's great .
because see , i have these new nuclear submarines that i 'm building .
and it 's really hard to figure out how to get your missile so that it will land right on top of moscow , if you don 't know where the submarine is in the middle of the pacific ocean .
so we 're thinking , we could throw up a bunch of satellites and use it to track our submarines and figure out their location in the middle of the ocean .
could you work on that problem ? " and that 's how gps was born .
30 years later , ronald reagan actually opened it up and made it an open platform that anybody could kind of build upon and anybody could come along and build new technology that would create and innovate on top of this open platform , left it open for anyone to do pretty much anything they wanted with it .
and now , i guarantee you certainly half of this room , if not more , has a device sitting in their pocket right now that is talking to one of these satellites in outer space .
and i bet you one of you , if not more , has used said device and said satellite system to locate a nearby coffeehouse somewhere in the last -- in the last day or last week , right ?
and that , i think , is a great case study , a great lesson in the power , the marvelous , kind of unplanned emergent , unpredictable power of open innovative systems .
when you build them right , they will be led to completely new directions that the creators never even dreamed of .
i mean , here you have these guys who basically thought they were just following this hunch , this little passion that had developed , then they thought they were fighting the cold war , and then it turns out they 're just helping somebody find a soy latte .
that is how innovation happens .
chance favors the connected mind .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eva _ vertes _ looks _ to _ the _ future _ of _ medicine.html
eva vertes -- only 19 when she gave this talk -- discusses her journey toward studying medicine and her drive to understand the roots of cancer and alzheimer 's .
featured , cancer , disease , health , science , technology , wunderkind
12
eva vertes looks to the future of medicine
thank you . it 's really an honor and a privilege to be here spending my last day as a teenager .
today i want to talk to you about the future , but first i 'm going to tell you a bit about the past .
my story starts way before i was born .
my grandmother was on a train to auschwitz , the death camp .
and she was going along the tracks , and the tracks split .
and somehow -- we don 't really know exactly the whole story -- but the train took the wrong track and went to a work camp rather than the death camp .
my grandmother survived and married my grandfather .
they were living in hungary , and my mother was born .
and when my mother was two years old , the hungarian revolution was raging , and they decided to escape hungary .
they got on a boat , and yet another divergence -- the boat was either going to canada or to australia .
they got on and didn 't know where they were going , and ended up in canada .
so , to make a long story short , they came to canada .
my grandmother was a chemist . she worked at the banting institute in toronto , and at 44 she died of stomach cancer . i never met my grandmother , but i carry on her name -- her exact name , eva vertes -- and i like to think i carry on her scientific passion , too .
i found this passion not far from here , actually , when i was nine years old .
my family was on a road trip and we were in the grand canyon .
and i had never been a reader when i was young -- my dad had tried me with the hardy boys ; i tried nancy drew ; i tried all that -- and i just didn 't like reading books .
and my mother bought this book when we were at the grand canyon called " the hot zone . " it was all about the outbreak of the ebola virus .
and something about it just kind of drew me towards it .
there was this big sort of bumpy-looking virus on the cover , and i just wanted to read it . i picked up that book , and as we drove from the edge of the grand canyon to big sur , and to , actually , here where we are today , in monterey , i read that book , and from when i was reading that book , i knew that i wanted to have a life in medicine .
i wanted to be like the explorers i 'd read about in the book , who went into the jungles of africa , went into the research labs and just tried to figure out what this deadly virus was . so from that moment on , i read every medical book i could get my hands on , and i just loved it so much .
i was a passive observer of the medical world .
it wasn 't until i entered high school that i thought , " maybe now , you know -- being a big high school kid -- i can maybe become an active part of this big medical world . "
i was 14 , and i emailed professors at the local university to see if maybe i could go work in their lab . and hardly anyone responded .
but i mean , why would they respond to a 14-year-old , anyway ?
and i got to go talk to one professor , dr. jacobs , who accepted me into the lab .
at that time , i was really interested in neuroscience and wanted to do a research project in neurology -- specifically looking at the effects of heavy metals on the developing nervous system .
so i started that , and worked in his lab for a year , and found the results that i guess you 'd expect to find when you feed fruit flies heavy metals -- that it really , really impaired the nervous system .
the spinal cord had breaks . the neurons were crossing in every which way .
and from then i wanted to look not at impairment , but at prevention of impairment .
so that 's what led me to alzheimer 's . i started reading about alzheimer 's and tried to familiarize myself with the research , and at the same time when i was in the -- i was reading in the medical library one day , and i read this article about something called " purine derivatives . "
and they seemed to have cell growth-promoting properties .
and being naive about the whole field , i kind of thought , " oh , you have cell death in alzheimer 's which is causing the memory deficit , and then you have this compound -- purine derivatives -- that are promoting cell growth . "
and so i thought , " maybe if it can promote cell growth , it can inhibit cell death , too . "
and so that 's the project that i pursued for that year , and it 's continuing now as well , and found that a specific purine derivative called " guanidine " had inhibited the cell growth by approximately 60 percent .
so i presented those results at the international science fair , which was just one of the most amazing experiences of my life .
and there i was awarded " best in the world in medicine , " which allowed me to get in , or at least get a foot in the door of the big medical world .
and from then on , since i was now in this huge exciting world , i wanted to explore it all . i wanted it all at once , but knew i couldn 't really get that .
and i stumbled across something called " cancer stem cells . "
and this is really what i want to talk to you about today -- about cancer .
at first when i heard of cancer stem cells , i didn 't really know how to put the two together . i 'd heard of stem cells , and i 'd heard of them as the panacea of the future -- the therapy of many diseases to come in the future , perhaps .
but i 'd heard of cancer as the most feared disease of our time , so how did the good and bad go together ?
last summer i worked at stanford university , doing some research on cancer stem cells .
and while i was doing this , i was reading the cancer literature , trying to -- again -- familiarize myself with this new medical field .
and it seemed that tumors actually begin from a stem cell .
this fascinated me . the more i read , the more i looked at cancer differently and almost became less fearful of it .
it seems that cancer is a direct result to injury .
if you smoke , you damage your lung tissue , and then lung cancer arises .
if you drink , you damage your liver , and then liver cancer occurs .
and it was really interesting -- there were articles correlating if you have a bone fracture , and then bone cancer arises .
because what stem cells are -- they 're these phenomenal cells that really have the ability to differentiate into any type of tissue .
so , if the body is sensing that you have damage to an organ and then it 's initiating cancer , it 's almost as if this is a repair response .
and the cancer , the body is saying the lung tissue is damaged , we need to repair the lung . and cancer is originating in the lung trying to repair -- because you have this excessive proliferation of these remarkable cells that really have the potential to become lung tissue .
but it 's almost as if the body has originated this ingenious response , but can 't quite control it .
it hasn 't yet become fine-tuned enough to finish what has been initiated .
so this really , really fascinated me .
and i really think that we can 't think about cancer -- let alone any disease -- in such black-and-white terms .
if we eliminate cancer the way we 're trying to do now , with chemotherapy and radiation , we 're bombarding the body or the cancer with toxins , or with radiation , trying to kill it . it 's almost as if we 're getting back to this starting point .
we 're removing the cancer cells , but we 're revealing the previous damage that the body has tried to fix .
shouldn 't we think about manipulation , rather than elimination ?
if somehow we can cause these cells to differentiate -- to become bone tissue , lung tissue , liver tissue , whatever that cancer has been put there to do -- it would be a repair process . we 'd end up better than we were before cancer .
so , this really changed my view of looking at cancer .
and while i was reading all these articles about cancer , it seemed that the articles -- a lot of them -- focused on , you know , the genetics of breast cancer , and the genesis and the progression of breast cancer -- tracking the cancer through the body , tracing where it is , where it goes .
but it struck me that i 'd never heard of cancer of the heart , or cancer of any skeletal muscle for that matter .
and skeletal muscle constitutes 50 percent of our body , or over 50 percent of our body . and so at first i kind of thought , " well , maybe there 's some obvious explanation why skeletal muscle doesn 't get cancer -- at least not that i know of . "
so , i looked further into it , found as many articles as i could , and it was amazing -- because it turned out that it was very rare .
some articles even went as far as to say that skeletal muscle tissue is resistant to cancer , and furthermore , not only to cancer , but of metastases going to skeletal muscle .
and what metastases are is when the tumor -- when a piece -- breaks off and travels through the blood stream and goes to a different organ . that 's what a metastasis is .
it 's the part of cancer that is the most dangerous .
if cancer was localized , we could likely remove it , or somehow -- you know , it 's contained . it 's very contained .
but once it starts moving throughout the body , that 's when it becomes deadly .
so the fact that not only did cancer not seem to originate in skeletal muscles , but cancer didn 't seem to go to skeletal muscle -- there seemed to be something here .
so these articles were saying , you know , " skeletal -- metastasis to skeletal muscle -- is very rare . "
but it was left at that . no one seemed to be asking why .
so i decided to ask why . at first -- the first thing i did was i emailed some professors who specialized in skeletal muscle physiology , and pretty much said , " hey , it seems like cancer doesn 't really go to skeletal muscle . is there a reason for this ? " and a lot of the replies i got were that muscle is terminally differentiated tissue .
meaning that you have muscle cells , but they 're not dividing , so it doesn 't seem like a good target for cancer to hijack .
but then again , this fact that the metastases didn 't go to skeletal muscle made that seem unlikely .
and furthermore , that nervous tissue -- brain -- gets cancer , and brain cells are also terminally differentiated .
so i decided to ask why . and here 's some of , i guess , my hypotheses that i 'll be starting to investigate this may at the sylvester cancer institute in miami .
and i guess i 'll keep investigating until i get the answers .
but i know that in science , once you get the answers , inevitably you 're going to have more questions .
so i guess you could say that i 'll probably be doing this for the rest of my life .
some of my hypotheses are that when you first think about skeletal muscle , there 's a lot of blood vessels going to skeletal muscle .
and the first thing that makes me think is that blood vessels are like highways for the tumor cells .
tumor cells can travel through the blood vessels .
and you think , the more highways there are in a tissue , the more likely it is to get cancer or to get metastases .
so first of all i thought , you know , " wouldn 't it be favorable to cancer getting to skeletal muscle ? " and as well , cancer tumors require a process called angiogenesis , which is really , the tumor recruits the blood vessels to itself to supply itself with nutrients so it can grow .
without angiogenesis , the tumor remains the size of a pinpoint and it 's not harmful .
so angiogenesis is really a central process to the pathogenesis of cancer .
and one article that really stood out to me when i was just reading about this , trying to figure out why cancer doesn 't go to skeletal muscle , was that it had reported 16 percent of micro-metastases to skeletal muscle upon autopsy .
16 percent ! meaning that there were these pinpoint tumors in skeletal muscle , but only .16 percent of actual metastases -- suggesting that maybe skeletal muscle is able to control the angiogenesis , is able to control the tumors recruiting these blood vessels .
we use skeletal muscles so much . it 's the one portion of our body -- our heart 's always beating . we 're always moving our muscles .
is it possible that muscle somehow intuitively knows that it needs this blood supply ? it needs to be constantly contracting , so therefore it 's almost selfish . it 's grabbing its blood vessels for itself .
therefore , when a tumor comes into skeletal muscle tissue , it can 't get a blood supply , and can 't grow .
so this suggests that maybe if there is an anti-angiogenic factor in skeletal muscle -- or perhaps even more , an angiogenic routing factor , so it can actually direct where the blood vessels grow --
this could be a potential future therapy for cancer .
and another thing that 's really interesting is that there 's this whole -- the way tumors move throughout the body , it 's a very complex system -- and there 's something called the chemokine network .
and chemokines are essentially chemical attractants , and they 're the stop and go signals for cancer .
so a tumor expresses chemokine receptors , and another organ -- a distant organ somewhere in the body -- will have the corresponding chemokines , and the tumor will see these chemokines and migrate towards it .
is it possible that skeletal muscle doesn 't express this type of molecules ?
and the other really interesting thing is that when skeletal muscle -- there 's been several reports that when skeletal muscle is injured , that 's what correlates with metastases going to skeletal muscle .
and , furthermore , when skeletal muscle is injured , that 's what causes chemokines -- these signals saying , " cancer , you can come to me , " the " go signs " for the tumors -- it causes them to highly express these chemokines .
so , there 's so much interplay here .
i mean , there are so many possibilities for why tumors don 't go to skeletal muscle .
but it seems like by investigating , by attacking cancer , by searching where cancer is not , there has got to be something -- there 's got to be something -- that 's making this tissue resistant to tumors .
and can we utilize -- can we take this property , this compound , this receptor , whatever it is that 's controlling these anti-tumor properties and apply it to cancer therapy in general ?
now , one thing that kind of ties the resistance of skeletal muscle to cancer -- to the cancer as a repair response gone out of control in the body -- is that skeletal muscle has a factor in it called " myod . "
and what myod essentially does is , it causes cells to differentiate into muscle cells . so this compound , myod , has been tested on a lot of different cell types and been shown to actually convert this variety of cell types into skeletal muscle cells .
so , is it possible that the tumor cells are going to the skeletal muscle tissue , but once in contact inside the skeletal muscle tissue , myod acts upon these tumor cells and causes them to become skeletal muscle cells ?
maybe tumor cells are being disguised as skeletal muscle cells , and this is why it seems as if it is so rare .
it 's not harmful ; it has just repaired the muscle .
muscle is constantly being used -- constantly being damaged .
if every time we tore a muscle or every time we stretched a muscle or moved in a wrong way , cancer occurred -- i mean , everybody would have cancer almost .
and i hate to say that . but it seems as though muscle cell , possibly because of all its use , has adapted faster than other body tissues to respond to injury , to fine-tune this repair response and actually be able to finish the process which the body wants to finish . i really believe that the human body is very , very smart , and we can 't counteract something the body is saying to do .
it 's different when a bacteria comes into the body -- that 's a foreign object -- we want that out .
but when the body is actually initiating a process and we 're calling it a disease , it doesn 't seem as though elimination is the right solution . so even to go from there , it 's possible , although far-fetched , that in the future we could almost think of cancer being used as a therapy .
if those diseases where tissues are deteriorating -- for example alzheimer 's , where the brain , the brain cells , die and we need to restore new brain cells , new functional brain cells -- what if we could , in the future , use cancer ? a tumor -- put it in the brain and cause it to differentiate into brain cells ?
that 's a very far-fetched idea , but i really believe that it may be possible .
these cells are so versatile , these cancer cells are so versatile -- we just have to manipulate them in the right way .
and again , some of these may be far-fetched , but i figured if there 's anywhere to present far-fetched ideas , it 's here at ted , so thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / rick _ smolan _ tells _ the _ story _ of _ a _ girl.html
photographer rick smolan tells the unforgettable story of a young amerasian girl , a fateful photograph , and an adoption saga with a twist .
united states , art , children , collaboration , global issues , media , photography , storytelling
297
rick smolan tells the story of a girl
some of you have heard the story before , but , in fact , there 's somebody in the audience who 's never heard this story -- in front of an audience -- before , so i 'm a little more nervous than i normally am telling this story .
i used to be a photographer for many years .
in 1978 , i was working for time magazine , and i was given a three-day assignment to photograph amerasian children , children who had been fathered by american gis all over southeast asia , and then abandoned --
40,000 children all over asia .
i had never heard the word amerasian before .
i spent a few days photographing children in different countries , and like a lot of photographers and a lot of journalists , i always hope that when my pictures were published , they might actually have an effect on a situation , instead of just documenting it .
so , i was so disturbed by what i saw , and i was so unhappy with the article that ran afterwards , that i decided i would take six months off .
i was 28 years old .
i decided i would find six children in different countries , and actually go spend some time with the kids , and try to tell their story a little bit better than i thought i had done for time magazine .
in the course of doing the story , i was looking for children who hadn 't been photographed before , and the pearl buck foundation told me that they worked with a lot of americans who were donating money to help some of these kids .
and a man told me , who ran the pearl buck foundation in korea , that there was a young girl , who was 11 years old , being raised by her grandmother .
and the grandmother had never let any westerners ever see her .
every time any westerners came to the village , she hid the girl .
and of course , i was immediately intrigued .
i saw photographs of her , and i thought i wanted to go .
and the guy just told me , " there 's no way . this grandmother won 't even -- you know , there 's no way she 's ever going to let you meet this girl that 's she 's raising . " i took a translator with me , and went to this village , found the grandmother , sat down with her .
and to my astonishment , she agreed to let me photograph her granddaughter .
and i was paying for this myself , so i asked the translator if it would be ok if i stayed for the week .
i had a sleeping bag .
the family had a small shed on the side of the house , so i said , " could i sleep in my sleeping bag in the evenings ? "
and i just told the little girl , whose name was hyun-sook lee , that if i ever did anything to embarrass her -- she didn 't speak a word of english , although she looked very american -- she could just put up her hand and say , " stop , "
and i would stop taking pictures .
and then , my translator left .
so there i was , i couldn 't speak a word of korean , and this is the first night i met hyun-sook .
her mother was still alive .
her mother was not raising her , her grandmother was raising her .
and what struck me immediately was how in love the two of these people were .
the grandmother was incredibly fond , deeply in love with this little girl .
they slept on the floor at night .
the way they heat their homes in korea is to put bricks under the floors , so the heat actually radiates from underneath the floor .
hyun-sook was 11 years old .
i had photographed , as i said , a lot of these kids .
hyun-sook was in fact the fifth child that i found to photograph .
and almost universally , amongst all the kids , they were really psychologically damaged by having been made fun of , ridiculed , picked on and been rejected .
and korea was probably the place i found to be the worst for these kids .
and what struck me immediately in meeting hyun-sook was how confident she appeared to be , how happy she seemed to be in her own skin .
and remember this picture , because i 'm going to show you another picture later , but you can see how much she looks like her grandmother , although she looks so western .
i decided to follow her to school .
this is the first morning i stayed with her .
this is on the way to school .
this is the morning assembly outside her school .
and i noticed that she was clowning around .
when the teachers would ask questions , she 'd be the first person to raise her hand .
again , not at all shy or withdrawn , or anything like the other children that i 'd photographed .
again , the first one to go to the blackboard to answer questions .
getting in trouble for whispering into her best friend 's ears in the middle of class .
and one of the other things that i said to her through the translator -- again , this thing about saying stop -- was to not pay attention to me .
and so , she really just completely ignored me most of the time .
i noticed that at recess , she was the girl who picked the other girls to be on her team .
it was very obvious , from the very beginning , that she was a leader .
this is on the way home .
and that 's north korea up along the hill .
this is up along the dmz .
they would actually cover the windows every night , so that light couldn 't be seen , because the south korean government has said for years that the north koreans may invade at any time .
so there 's always this -- the closer you were to north korea , the more terrifying it was .
very often at school , i 'd be taking pictures , and she would whisper into her girlfriends ' ears , and then look at me and say , " stop . "
and i would stand at attention , and all the girls would crack up , and it was sort of a little joke .
the end of the week came and my translator came back , because i 'd asked her to come back , so i could formally thank the grandmother and hyun-sook .
and in the course of the grandmother talking to the translator , the grandmother started crying .
and i said to my translator , " what 's going on , why is she crying ? "
and she spoke to the grandmother for a moment , and then she started getting tears in her eyes .
and i said , " ok , what did i do ? what 's going on ? why is everyone crying ? " and the translator said , " the grandmother says that she thinks she 's dying , and she wants to know if you would take hyun-sook to america with you . "
and i said , " i 'm 28 years old , and i live in hotels , and i 'm not married . " i mean i had fallen in love with this girl , but i -- you know , it was , like , emotionally i was about 12 years old .
if you know of photographers , the joke is it 's the finest form of delayed adolescence ever invented . " sorry , i have to go on an assignment , i 'll be back " --
and then you never come back .
so , i asked the translator why she thought she was dying .
can i get her to a hospital ? could i pay to get her a doctor ?
and she refused any help at all .
and so , when i got outside , i actually gave the translator some money and said , " please go back and see if you can do something . " and i gave the grandmother my business card .
and i said , " if you 're serious , i will try to find a family for her . "
and i immediately wrote a letter to my best friends in atlanta , georgia , who had an 11-year-old son .
and my best friend had mistakenly one day said something about wishing he had another child .
so here my friends gene and gail had not heard from me in about a year ,
and suddenly i was calling , saying " i 'm in korea , and i 've met this extraordinary girl . " and i said , " the grandmother thinks she 's sick , but i think maybe we would have to bring the grandmother over also . " and i said , " i 'll pay for the ... " i mean , i had this whole sort of picture .
so anyway , i left .
and my friends actually said they were very interested in adopting her .
and i said , " look , i think i 'll scare the grandmother to death , if i actually write to her and tell her that you 're willing to adopt her , i want to go back and talk to her . " but i was off on assignment .
i figured i 'd come back in a couple of weeks and talk to the grandmother .
and on christmas day , i was in bangkok with a group of photographers and got a telegram -- back in those days , you got telegrams -- from time magazine saying someone in korea had died , and left their child in a will to me .
did i know anything about this ?
because i hadn 't told them what i was doing , because i was so upset with the story they 'd run .
so , i went back to korea , and i went back to hyun-sook 's village , and she was gone .
and the house that i had spent time in was empty .
it was incredibly cold .
no one in the village would tell me where hyun-sook was , because the grandmother had always hidden her from westerners .
and they had no idea about this request that she 'd made of me .
so i finally found myung sung , her best friend that she used to play with after school every day .
and myung sung , under some pressure from me and the translator , gave us an address on the outside of seoul .
and i went to that address and knocked on the door , and a man answered the door .
it was not a very nice area of seoul , as there were mud streets outside of it .
and i knocked on the door , and hyun-sook answered the door , and her eyes were bloodshot , and she seemed to be in shock . she didn 't recognize me -- there was no recognition whatsoever .
and this man came to the door and kind of barked something in korean .
and i said to the translator , " what did he say ? "
and she said , " he wants to know who you are . "
and i said , " well , tell him that i am a photographer . "
i started explaining who i was , and he interrupted .
and she said , " he says he knows who you are , what do you want ? "
i said , " well , tell him that i was asked by this little girl 's grandmother to find a family for her . " and he said , " i 'm her uncle , she 's fine , you can leave now . "
so i was -- you know , the door was being slammed in my face ,
it 's incredibly cold , and i 'm trying to think , " what would the hero do in a movie , if i was writing this as a movie script ? " so i said , " listen , it 's really cold , i 've come a very long way , do you mind if i just come in for a minute ? i 'm freezing . " so the guy kind of reluctantly let us in and we sat down on the floor .
and as we started talking , i saw him yell something , and hyun-sook came and brought us some food .
and i had this whole mental picture of , sort of like cinderella .
i sort of had this picture of this incredibly wonderful , bright , happy little child , who now appeared to be very withdrawn , being enslaved by this family .
and i was really appalled , and i couldn 't figure out what to do .
and the more i tried talking to him , the less friendly he was getting .
so i finally decided , i said " look , " -- this is all through the translator , because , this is all , you know , i don 't speak a word of korean -- and i said , " look , i 'm really glad that hyun-sook has a family to live with .
i was very worried about her .
i made a promise to her grandmother , your mother , that i would find a family , and now i 'm so happy that you 're going to take care of her . " i said , " but you know , i bought an airline ticket , and i 'm stuck here for a week . " and i said , " i 'm staying in a hotel downtown .
would you like to come and have lunch tomorrow ?
and you can practice your english . " because he told me -- i was trying to ask him questions about himself .
and so i went to the hotel , and i found two older amerasians .
a girl whose mother had been a prostitute , and she was a prostitute , and a boy who 'd been in and out of jail .
and i said to them , " look , there 's a little girl who has a tiny chance of getting out of here and going to america . " i said , " i don 't know if it 's the right decision or not , but i would like you to come to lunch tomorrow and tell the uncle what it 's like to walk down the street , what people say to you , what you do for a living .
and just -- i want him to understand what happens if she stays here .
and i could be wrong , i don 't know , but i wish you would come tomorrow . " so , these two came to lunch , and we got thrown out of the restaurant .
they were yelling at him , they were -- it got to be really ugly .
and we went outside , and he was just furious .
and i knew i had totally blown this whole thing .
here i was again , trying to figure out what to do .
and he started yelling at me , and i said to the translator , " ok , tell him to calm down , what is he saying ? "
and she said , " well , he 's saying , ' who the hell are you to walk into my house , some rich american with your cameras around your neck , accusing me of enslaving my niece ?
this is my niece , i love her , she 's my sister 's daughter .
who the hell are you to accuse me of something like this ? ' " and i said , you know , " look , " i said , " you 're absolutely right .
i don 't pretend to understand what 's going on here . " i said , " all i know is , i 've been photographing a lot of these children . "
i said , " i 'm in love with your niece , i think she 's an incredibly special child . " and i said , " look , i will fly my friends over here from the united states if you want to meet them , to see if you approve of them .
i just think that -- what little i know about the situation , she has very little chance here of having the kind of life that you probably would like her to have . " so , everyone told me afterwards that inviting the prospective parents over was , again , the stupidest thing i could have possibly done , because who 's ever good enough for your relative ?
but he invited me to come to a ceremony they were having that day for her grandmother .
and they actually take items of clothing and photographs , and they burn them as part of the ritual .
and you can see how different she looks just in three months .
this was now , i think , february , early february .
and the pictures before were taken in september .
well , there was an american marine priest that i had met in the course of doing the story , who had 75 children living in his house .
he had three women helping him take care of these kids .
and so i suggested to the uncle that we go down and meet father keene , to find out how the adoption process worked .
because i wanted him to feel like this was all being done very much above board .
so , this is on the way down to the orphanage .
this is father keene . he 's just a wonderful guy .
he had kids from all over korea living there , and he would find families for these kids .
this is a social worker interviewing hyun-sook .
now , i had always thought she was completely untouched by all of this , because the grandmother , to me , appeared to be sort of the village wise woman , and the person everybody -- throughout the day , i noticed people kept coming to visit her grandmother .
and i always had this mental picture that even though they may have been one of the poorer families in the village , they were one of the most respected families in the village .
and i always felt that the grandmother had kind of demanded , and insisted , that the villagers treat hyun-sook with the same respect they treated her .
hyun-sook stayed at father keene 's , and her uncle agreed to let her stay there until the adoption went through .
he actually agreed to the adoption .
and i went off on assignment and came back a week later , and father keene said , " i 've got to talk to you about hyun-sook . "
i kind of said , " oh god , now what ? "
and he takes me into this room , and he closes the door , and he says , " i have 75 children here in the orphanage , and it 's total bedlam . "
and there 's clothes , and there 's kids , and , you know , there 's three adults and 75 kids -- you can imagine . and he said , " the second day she was here she made up a list of all of the names of the older kids and the younger kids .
and she assigned one of the older kids to each of the younger kids .
and then she set up a work detail list of who cleaned the orphanage on what day . " and he said , " she 's telling me that i 'm messy , and i have to clean up my room . "
and he said , " i don 't know who raised her , but , " he said , " she 's running the orphanage , and she 's been here three days . " this was movie day -- that she organized -- where all the kids went to the movies .
a lot of the kids who had been adopted actually wrote back to the other kids , telling them about what their life was like with their new families .
so , it was a really big deal when the letters showed up .
this is a woman who is now working at the orphanage , whose son had been adopted .
gene and gail started studying korean the moment they had gotten my first letter .
they really wanted to be able to welcome hyun-sook into their family .
and one of the things father keene told me when i came back from one of these trips -- hyun-sook had chosen the name natasha , which i understood was from her watching a " rocky and bullwinkle " cartoon on the american air force station .
this may be one of those myth-buster things that we 'll have to clear up here , in a minute .
so , my friend gene flew over with his son , tim .
gail couldn 't come .
and they spent a lot of time huddled over a dictionary .
and this was gene showing the uncle where atlanta was on the map , where he lived .
this is the uncle signing the adoption papers .
now , we went out to dinner that night to celebrate .
the uncle went back to his family , and natasha and tim and gene and i went out to dinner .
and gene was showing natasha how to use a knife and fork , and then natasha was returning the utensil lessons .
we went back to our hotel room , and gene was showing natasha also where atlanta was .
this is the third night we were in korea .
the first night we 'd gotten a room for the kids right next to us .
now , i 'd been staying in this room for about three months -- it was a little 15-story korean hotel .
so , the second night , we didn 't keep the kids ' room , because we went down and slept on the floor with all the kids at the orphanage .
and the third night , we came back , we 'd just gone out to dinner , where you saw the pictures , and we got to the front desk and the guy at the front desk said , " there 's no other free rooms on your floor tonight , so if you want to put the kids five floors below you , there 's a room there . " and gene and i looked at each other and said , " no , we don 't want two 11-year-olds five floors away . "
so , his son said , " dad , i have a sleeping bag , i 'll sleep on the floor . "
and i said , " yeah , i have one too . "
so , tim and i slept on the floor , natasha got one bed , gene got the other -- kids pass out , it 's been very exciting for three days .
we 're lying in bed , and gene and i are talking about how cool we are .
we said , " that was so great , we saved this little girl 's life . "
we were just like , you know , ah , just full of ourselves .
and we fall asleep -- and i 've been in this room , you know , for a couple of months now .
and they always overheat the hotels in korea terribly , so during the day i always left the window open .
and then , at night , about midnight , they turn the heat off in the hotel . so at about 1 a.m. , the whole room would be like 20 below zero , and i 'd get up .
i 'd been doing this every night i 'd been there .
so , sure enough , it 's one o 'clock , room 's freezing , i go to close the window , and i hear people shouting outside , and i thought , " oh , the bars must have just gotten out . "
and i don 't speak korean , but i 'm hearing these voices , and i 'm not hearing anger , i 'm hearing terror .
so , i open the window , and i look out , and there 's flames coming up the side of our hotel , and the hotel 's on fire .
so , i run over to gene , and i wake him up , and i say , " gene , don 't freak out , i think the hotel 's on fire . "
and now there 's smoke and flames coming by our windows -- we 're on the eleventh floor .
so , the two of us were just like , " oh my god , oh my god . "
so , we 're trying to get natasha up , and we can 't talk to her .
and you know what kids are like when they 've been asleep for like an hour , it 's like they took five valiums -- you know , they 're all over the place .
and we can 't talk to her .
i remember his son had the l.l. bean bootlaces , and we 're trying to do up his laces .
so , we try to get to the door , and we run to the door , and we open the door and it 's like walking into a blast furnace .
there 's people screaming , there 's the sound of glass breaking , there 's these weird thumps .
and the whole room filled with smoke in about two seconds .
and gene turns around and says , " we 're not going to make it . " and he closes the door , and the whole room is now filled with smoke .
we 're all choking , and there 's smoke pouring through the vents , under the doors . there 's people screaming .
i just remember this unbelievable , just utter chaos .
i remember sitting near the bed , and i was just so -- i had two overwhelming feelings .
one was absolute terror -- it 's like , " oh , please god , i just want to wake up . this has got to be a nightmare , this can 't be happening . please , i just want to wake up , it 's got to be a nightmare . " and the other is unbelievable guilt .
here i 've been , playing god with my friends ' lives , my friends ' son , with natasha 's life , and this what you get when you try playing god , is you hurt people .
i remember just being so frightened and terrified .
and gene , who 's lying on the floor , says , " man , we 've got to soak towels . " i said , " what ? "
he says , " we 've got to soak towels . we 're going to die from the smoke . "
so , we ran to the bathroom , and got towels , and put them over our faces , and the kids faces .
then he said , " do you have gaffer 's tape ? "
i said , " what ? " he said , " do you have gaffer 's tape ? "
i said , " yeah , somewhere in my halliburton . "
he says , " we 've got to stop the smoke . "
he said , " that 's all we can do , we 've got to stop the smoke . "
i mean , gene -- thank god for gene .
so , we put the room service menus over the vents in the wall , we put blankets at the bottom of the door , we put the kids on the windowsill to try to get some air . and there was a building , a new building , going up , that was being built right outside , across the street from our hotel .
and there , in the building were photographers waiting for people to jump .
eleven people ended up dying in the fire .
five people jumped and died , other people were killed by the smoke .
and there 's this loud thumping on the door after about 45 minutes in all this , and people were shouting in korean .
and i remember , natasha didn 't want us opening the door -- sorry , i was trying not to open the door , because we 'd spent so much time barricading the room .
i didn 't know who it was , i didn 't know what they wanted , and natasha could tell they were firemen trying to get us out .
i remember a sort of a tussle at the door , trying to get the door open .
in any case , 12 hours later , i mean , they put us in the lobby .
gene ended up using his coat , and his fist in the coat , to break open a liquor cabinet .
people were lying on the floor .
it was one of just the most horrifying nights .
and then 12 hours later , we rented a car , as we had planned to , and drove back to natasha 's village .
and we kept saying , " do you realize we were dying in a hotel fire , like eight hours ago ? "
it 's so weird how life just goes on .
natasha wanted to introduce her brother and father to all the villagers , and the day we showed up turned out to be a 60-year-old man 's birthday . this guy 's 60 years old .
so it turned into a dual celebration , because natasha was the first person from this village ever to go to the united states .
so , these are the greenhouse tents .
this is the elders teaching gene their dances .
we drank a lot of rice wine . we were both so drunk , i couldn 't believe it .
this is the last picture before gene and tim headed back .
the adoption people told us it was going to take a year for the adoption to go through .
like , what could you do for a year ?
so i found out the name of every official on both the korean and american side , and i photographed them , and told them how famous they were going to be when this book was done .
and four months later , the adoption papers came through .
this is saying goodbye to everybody at the orphanage .
this is father keene with natasha at the bus stop .
her great aunt at the airport .
i had a wonderful deal with cathay pacific airlines for many years , where they gave me free passes on all their airlines in return for photography .
it was like the ultimate perk .
and the pilot , i actually knew -- because they used to let me sit in the jump seat , to tell you how long ago this was .
this is a tri-star , and so they let natasha actually sit in the jump seat .
and the pilot , jeff cowley , actually went back and adopted one of the other kids at the orphanage after meeting natasha .
this is 28 hours later in atlanta . it 's a very long flight .
just to make things even crazier , gail , natasha 's new mom , was three days away from giving birth to her own daughter .
so you know , if you were writing this , you 'd say , " no , we 've got to write the script differently . "
this is the first night showing natasha her new cousins and uncles and aunts .
gene and gail know everyone in atlanta -- they 're the most social couple imaginable .
so , at this point , natasha doesn 't speak a word of english , other than what little father keene taught her .
this is kylie , her sister , who 's now a doctor , on the right .
this is a deal i had with natasha , which is that when we got to atlanta she could take -- she could cut off my beard .
she never liked it very much .
she learned english in three months .
she entered seventh grade at her own age level .
pledge of allegiance for the first time .
this is her cooking teacher .
natasha told me that a lot of the kids thought she was stuck up , because they would talk to her and she wouldn 't answer , and they didn 't realize she didn 't actually speak english very well , in the beginning .
but what i noticed , again as an observer , was she was choosing who was going to be on her team ,
and seemed to be very popular very , very quickly .
now , remember the picture , how much she looked like her grandmother , at the beginning ?
people were always telling natasha how much she looks like her mother , gail .
this is a tense moment in the first football game , i think .
and kylie -- i mean , it was almost like kylie was her own child .
she 's being baptized .
now , a lot of parents , when they adopt , actually want to erase their children 's history .
and gail and gene did the complete opposite .
they were studying korean ; they bought korean clothes .
gene even did a little tile work in the kitchen , which was that , " once upon a time , there was a beautiful girl that came from hills of korea to live happily ever after in atlanta . "
she hates this picture -- it was her first job .
she bought a bright red karmann ghia with the money she made working at burger king .
the captain of the cheerleaders .
beauty pageant .
used to do their christmas card every year .
gene 's been restoring this car for a million years .
kodak hired natasha to be a translator for them at the olympics in korea .
her future husband , jeff , was working for canon cameras , and met natasha at the olympic village .
this is her first trip back to korea , so there 's her uncle .
this is her half-sister .
she went back to the village . that 's her best friend 's mother .
and i always thought that was a very annie hall kind of outfit .
it 's just , you know , it was just so interesting , just to watch -- this is her mother in the background there .
this is natasha 's wedding day .
gene is looking a little older .
this is sydney , who 's going to be three years old in a couple of days .
and there 's evan .
natasha , would you just come up , for a second , just maybe to say hello to everybody ?
natasha 's actually never heard me tell the story .
i mean , she -- you know , we 've looked at the pictures together .
natasha : i 've seen pictures millions of times , but today was the first time i 'm actually seeing him give the whole presentation .
i started crying .
rick smolan : i 'm sure there 's about 40 things she 's going to tell me ,
" that wasn 't what happened , that wasn 't what you said . " natasha : later , i 'll do that later .
rs : anyway , thank you , mike and richard , so much for letting us tell the story .
thank you all of you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / dimitar _ sasselov _ how _ we _ found _ hundreds _ of _ potential _ earth _ like _ planets.html
astronomer dimitar sasselov and his colleagues search for earth-like planets that may , someday , help us answer centuries-old questions about the origin and existence of biological life elsewhere . preliminary results show that they have found 706 " candidates " -- some of which further research may prove to be planets with earth-like geochemical characteristics .
astronomy , biology , life , technology , universe
920
dimitar sasselov : how we found hundreds of potential earth-like planets
well , indeed , i 'm very , very lucky .
my talk essentially got written by three historic events that happened within days of each other in the last two months -- seemingly unrelated , but as you will see , actually all having to do with the story i want to tell you today .
the first one was actually a funeral -- to be more precise , a reburial .
on may 22nd , there was a hero 's reburial in frombork , poland of the 16th-century astronomer who actually changed the world .
he did that , literally , by replacing the earth with the sun in the center of the solar system ,
and then with this simple-looking act , he actually launched a scientific and technological revolution , which many call the copernican revolution .
now that was , ironically , and very befittingly , the way we found his grave .
as it was the custom of the time , copernicus was actually simply buried in an unmarked grave , together with 14 others in that cathedral .
dna analysis , one of the hallmarks of the scientific revolution of the last 400 years that he started , was the way we found which set of bones actually belonged to the person who read all those astronomical books which were filled with leftover hair that was copernicus ' hair -- obviously not many other people bothered to read these books later on .
that match was unambiguous .
the dna matched ,
and we know that this was indeed nicolaus copernicus .
now , the connection between biology and dna and life is very tantalizing when you talk about copernicus because , even back then , his followers very quickly made the logical step to ask : if the earth is just a planet , then what about planets around other stars ?
what about the idea of the plurality of the worlds , about life on other planets ?
in fact , i 'm borrowing here from one of those very popular books of the time .
and at the time , people actually answered that question positively : " yes . "
but there was no evidence .
and here begins 400 years of frustration , of unfulfilled dreams -- the dreams of galileo , giordano bruno , many others -- which never led to the answer of those very basic questions which humanity has asked all the time .
" what is life ? what is the origin of life ?
are we alone ? "
and that especially happened in the last 10 years , at the end of the 20th century , when the beautiful developments due to molecular biology , understanding the code of life , dna , all of that seemed to actually put us , not closer , but further apart from answering those basic questions .
now , the good news .
a lot has happened in the last few years ,
and let 's start with the planets .
let 's start with the old copernican question : are there earths around other stars ?
and as we already heard , there is a way in which we are trying , and now able , to answer that question .
it 's a new telescope .
our team , befittingly i think , named it after one of those dreamers of the copernican time , johannes kepler ,
and that telescope 's sole purpose is to go out , find the planets that orbit other stars in our galaxy , and tell us how often do planets like our own earth happen to be out there .
the telescope is actually built similarly to the , well-known to you , hubble space telescope ,
except it does have an additional lens -- a wide-field lens , as you would call it as a photographer .
and if , in the next couple of months , you walk out in the early evening and look straight up and place you palm like this , you will actually be looking at the field of the sky where this telescope is searching for planets day and night , without any interruption , for the next four years .
the way we do that , actually , is with a method , which we call the transit method .
it 's actually mini-eclipses that occur when a planet passes in front of its star .
not all of the planets will be fortuitously oriented for us to be able do that , but if you have a million stars , you 'll find enough planets .
and as you see on this animation , what kepler is going to detect is just the dimming of the light from the star .
we are not going to see the image of the star and the planet as this .
all the stars for kepler are just points of light .
but we learn a lot from that : not only that there is a planet there , but we also learn its size .
how much of the light is being dimmed depends on how big the planet is .
we learn about its orbit , the period of its orbit and so on .
so , what have we learned ?
well , let me try to walk you through what we actually see and so you understand the news that i 'm here to tell you today .
what kepler does is discover a lot of candidates , which we then follow up and find as planets , confirm as planets .
it basically tells us this is the distribution of planets in size .
there are small planets , there are bigger planets , there are big planets , okay .
so we count many , many such planets , and they have different sizes .
we do that in our solar system .
in fact , even back during the ancients , the solar system in that sense would look on a diagram like this .
there will be the smaller planets , and there will be the big planets , even back to the time of epicurus and then of course copernicus and his followers .
up until recently , that was the solar system -- four earth-like planets with small radius , smaller than about two times the size of the earth --
and that was of course mercury , venus , mars , and of course the earth , and then the two big , giant planets .
then the copernican revolution brought in telescopes ,
and of course three more planets were discovered .
now the total planet number in our solar system was nine .
the small planets dominated , and there was a certain harmony to that , which actually copernicus was very happy to note , and kepler was one of the big proponents of .
so now we have pluto to join the numbers of small planets .
but up until , literally , 15 years ago , that was all we knew about planets .
and that 's what the frustration was .
the copernican dream was unfulfilled .
finally , 15 years ago , the technology came to the point where we could discover a planet around another star , and we actually did pretty well .
in the next 15 years , almost 500 planets were discovered orbiting other stars , with different methods .
unfortunately , as you can see , there was a very different picture .
there was of course an explanation for it :
we only see the big planets ,
so that 's why most of those planets are really in the category of " like jupiter . "
but you see , we haven 't gone very far .
we were still back where copernicus was .
we didn 't have any evidence whether planets like the earth are out there .
and we do care about planets like the earth because by now we understood that life as a chemical system really needs a smaller planet with water and with rocks and with a lot of complex chemistry to originate , to emerge , to survive .
and we didn 't have the evidence for that .
so today , i 'm here to actually give you a first glimpse of what the new telescope , kepler , has been able to tell us in the last few weeks ,
and , lo and behold , we are back to the harmony and to fulfilling the dreams of copernicus .
you can see here , the small planets dominate the picture .
the planets which are marked " like earth , " [ are ] definitely more than any other planets that we see .
and now for the first time , we can say that .
there is a lot more work we need to do with this .
most of these are candidates .
in the next few years we will confirm them .
but the statistical result is loud and clear .
and the statistical result is that planets like our own earth are out there .
our own milky way galaxy is rich in this kind of planets .
so the question is : what do we do next ?
well , first of all , we can study them now that we know where they are .
and we can find those that we would call habitable , meaning that they have similar conditions to the conditions that we experience here on earth and where a lot of complex chemistry can happen .
so , we can even put a number to how many of those planets now do we expect our own milky way galaxy harbors .
and the number , as you might expect , is pretty staggering .
it 's about 100 million such planets .
that 's great news . why ?
because with our own little telescope , just in the next two years , we 'll be able to identify at least 60 of them .
so that 's great because then we can go and study them -- remotely , of course -- with all the techniques that we already have tested in the past five years .
we can find what they 're made of , would their atmospheres have water , carbon dioxide , methane .
we know and expect that we 'll see that .
that 's great , but that is not the whole news .
that 's not why i 'm here .
why i 'm here is to tell you that the next step is really the exciting part .
the one that this step is enabling us to do is coming next .
and here comes biology -- biology , with its basic question , which still stands unanswered , which is essentially : " if there is life on other planets , do we expect it to be like life on earth ? " and let me immediately tell you here , when i say life , i don 't mean " dolce vita , " good life , human life .
i really mean life on earth , past and present , from microbes to us humans , in its rich molecular diversity , the way we now understand life on earth as being a set of molecules and chemical reactions -- and we call that , collectively , biochemistry , life as a chemical process , as a chemical phenomenon .
so the question is : is that chemical phenomenon universal , or is it something which depends on the planet ?
is it like gravity , which is the same everywhere in the universe , or there would be all kinds of different biochemistries wherever we find them ?
we need to know what we are looking for when we try to do that .
and that 's a very basic question , which we don 't know the answer to , but which we can try -- and we are trying -- to answer in the lab .
we don 't need to go to space to answer that question .
and so , that 's what we are trying to do .
and that 's what many people now are trying to do .
and a lot of the good news comes from that part of the bridge that we are trying to build as well .
so this is one example that i want to show you here .
when we think of what is necessary for the phenomenon that we call life , we think of compartmentalization , keeping the molecules which are important for life in a membrane , isolated from the rest of the environment , but yet , in an environment in which they actually could originate together .
and in one of our labs , jack szostak 's labs , it was a series of experiments in the last four years that showed that the environments -- which are very common on planets , on certain types of planets like the earth , where you have some liquid water and some clays -- you actually end up with naturally available molecules which spontaneously form bubbles .
but those bubbles have membranes very similar to the membrane of every cell of every living thing on earth looks like ,
like this .
and they really help molecules , like nucleic acids , like rna and dna , stay inside , develop , change , divide and do some of the processes that we call life .
now this is just an example to tell you the pathway in which we are trying to answer that bigger question about the universality of the phenomenon .
and in a sense , you can think of that work that people are starting to do now around the world as building a bridge , building a bridge from two sides of the river .
on one hand , on the left bank of the river , are the people like me who study those planets and try to define the environments .
we don 't want to go blind because there 's too many possibilities , and there is not too much lab , and there is not enough human time to actually to do all the experiments .
so that 's what we are building from the left side of the river .
from the right bank of the river are the experiments in the lab that i just showed you , where we actually tried that , and it feeds back and forth , and we hope to meet in the middle one day .
so why should you care about that ?
why am i trying to sell you a half-built bridge ?
am i that charming ?
well , there are many reasons , and you heard some of them in the short talk today .
this understanding of chemistry actually can help us with our daily lives .
but there is something more profound here , something deeper .
and that deeper , underlying point is that science is in the process of redefining life as we know it .
and that is going to change our worldview in a profound way -- not in a dissimilar way as 400 years ago , copernicus ' act did , by changing the way we view space and time .
now it 's about something else , but it 's equally profound .
and half the time , what 's happened is it 's related this kind of sense of insignificance to humankind , to the earth in a bigger space .
and the more we learn , the more that was reinforced .
you 've all learned that in school -- how small the earth is compared to the immense universe .
and the bigger the telescope , the bigger that universe becomes .
and look at this image of the tiny , blue dot .
this pixel is the earth .
it is the earth as we know it .
it is seen from , in this case , from outside the orbit of saturn .
but it 's really tiny .
we know that .
let 's think of life as that entire planet because , in a sense , it is .
the biosphere is the size of the earth .
life on earth is the size of the earth .
and let 's compare it to the rest of the world in spatial terms .
what if that copernican insignificance was actually all wrong ?
would that make us more responsible for what is happening today ?
let 's actually try that .
so in space , the earth is very small .
can you imagine how small it is ?
let me try it .
okay , let 's say this is the size of the observable universe , with all the galaxies , with all the stars , okay , from here to here .
do you know what the size of life in this necktie will be ?
it will be the size of a single , small atom .
it is unimaginably small .
we can 't imagine it .
i mean look , you can see the necktie , but you can 't even imagine seeing the size of a little , small atom .
but that 's not the whole story , you see .
the universe and life are both in space and time .
if that was the age of the universe , then this is the age of life on earth .
think about those oldest living things on earth , but in a cosmic proportion .
this is not insignificant .
this is very significant .
so life might be insignificant in size , but it is not insignificant in time .
life and the universe compare to each other like a child and a parent , parent and offspring .
so what does this tell us ?
this tells us that that insignificance paradigm that we somehow got to learn from the copernican principle , it 's all wrong .
there is immense , powerful potential in life in this universe -- especially now that we know that places like the earth are common .
and that potential , that powerful potential , is also our potential , of you and me .
and if we are to be stewards of our planet earth and its biosphere , we 'd better understand the cosmic significance and do something about it .
and the good news is we can actually , indeed do it .
and let 's do it .
let 's start this new revolution at the tail end of the old one , with synthetic biology being the way to transform both our environment and our future .
and let 's hope that we can build this bridge together and meet in the middle .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / hans _ rosling _ the _ truth _ about _ hiv.html
hans rosling unveils new data visuals that untangle the complex risk factors of one of the world 's deadliest diseases : hiv . he argues that preventing transmissions -- not drug treatments -- is the key to ending the epidemic .
aids , africa , disease , global issues , presentation , statistics , visualizations
540
hans rosling on hiv : new facts and stunning data visuals
aids was discovered 1981 ; the virus , 1983 .
these gapminder bubbles show you how the spread of the virus was in 1983 in the world , or how we estimate that it was .
what we are showing here is -- on this axis here , i 'm showing percent of infected adults .
and on this axis , i 'm showing dollars per person in income .
and the size of these bubbles , the size of the bubbles here , that shows how many are infected in each country , and the color is the continent .
now , you can see united states , in 1983 , had a very low percentage infected , but due to the big population , still a sizable bubble .
there were quite many people infected in the united states .
and , up there , you see uganda .
they had almost five percent infected , and quite a big bubble in spite of being a small country , then .
and they were probably the most infected country in the world .
now , what has happened ?
now you have understood the graph and now , in the next 60 seconds , we will play the hiv epidemic in the world .
but first , i have a new invention here .
i have solidified the beam of the laser pointer .
so , ready , steady , go !
first , we have the fast rise in uganda and zimbabwe .
they went upwards like this .
in asia , the first country to be heavily infected was thailand --
they reached one to two percent .
then , uganda started to turn back , whereas zimbabwe skyrocketed , and some years later south africa had a terrible rise of hiv frequency .
look , india got many infected , but had a low level .
and almost the same happens here .
see , uganda coming down , zimbabwe coming down , russia went to one percent .
in the last two to three years , we have reached a steady state of hiv epidemic in the world .
25 years it took .
but , steady state doesn 't mean that things are getting better , it 's just that they have stopped getting worse .
and it has -- the steady state is , more or less , one percent of the adult world population is hiv-infected .
it means 30 to 40 million people , the whole of california -- every person , that 's more or less what we have today in the world .
now , let me make a fast replay of botswana .
botswana -- upper middle-income country in southern africa , democratic government , good economy , and this is what happened there .
they started low , they skyrocketed , they peaked up there in 2003 , and now they are down .
but they are falling only slowly , because in botswana , with good economy and governance , they can manage to treat people .
and if people who are infected are treated , they don 't die of aids .
these percentages won 't come down because people can survive 10 to 20 years .
so there 's some problem with these metrics now .
but the poorer countries in africa , the low-income countries down here , there the rates fall faster , of the percentage infected , because people still die .
in spite of pepfar , the generous pepfar , all people are not reached by treatment , and of those who are reached by treatment in the poor countries , only 60 percent are left on treatment after two years .
it 's not realistic with lifelong treatment for everyone in the poorest countries .
but it 's very good that what is done is being done .
but focus now is back on prevention .
it is only by stopping the transmission that the world will be able to deal with it . drugs is too costly -- had we had the vaccine , or when we will get the vaccine , that 's something more effective -- but the drugs are very costly for the poor .
not the drug in itself , but the treatment and the care which is needed around it .
so , when we look at the pattern , one thing comes out very clearly : you see the blue bubbles and people say hiv is very high in africa .
i would say , hiv is very different in africa .
you 'll find the highest hiv rate in the world in african countries , and yet you 'll find senegal , down here -- the same rate as united states .
and you 'll find madagascar , and you 'll find a lot of african countries about as low as the rest of the world .
it 's this terrible simplification that there 's one africa and things go on in one way in africa .
we have to stop that .
it 's not respectful , and it 's not very clever to think that way .
i had the fortune to live and work for a time in the united states .
i found out that salt lake city and san francisco were different .
and so it is in africa -- it 's a lot of difference .
so , why is it so high ? is it war ?
no , it 's not . look here .
war-torn congo is down there -- two , three , four percent .
and this is peaceful zambia , neighboring country -- 15 percent .
and there 's good studies of the refugees coming out of congo -- they have two , three percent infected , and peaceful zambia -- much higher .
there are now studies clearly showing that the wars are terrible , that rapes are terrible ,
but this is not the driving force for the high levels in africa .
so , is it poverty ?
well if you look at the macro level , it seems more money , more hiv .
but that 's very simplistic , so let 's go down and look at tanzania .
i will split tanzania in five income groups , from the highest income to the lowest income , and here we go .
the ones with the highest income , the better off -- i wouldn 't say rich -- they have higher hiv .
the difference goes from 11 percent down to four percent , and it is even bigger among women .
there 's a lot of things that we thought , that now , good research , done by african institutions and researchers together with the international researchers , show that that 's not the case .
so , this is the difference within tanzania .
and , i can 't avoid showing kenya .
look here at kenya .
i 've split kenya in its provinces .
here it goes .
see the difference within one african country -- it goes from very low level to very high level , and most of the provinces in kenya is quite modest .
so , what is it then ?
why do we see this extremely high levels in some countries ?
well , it is more common with multiple partners , there is less condom use , and there is age-disparate sex -- that is , older men tend to have sex with younger women .
we see higher rates in younger women than younger men in many of these highly affected countries .
but where are they situated ?
i will swap the bubbles to a map .
look , the highly infected are four percent of all population and they hold 50 percent of the hiv-infected .
hiv exists all over the world .
look , you have bubbles all over the world here .
brazil has many hiv-infected .
arab countries not so much , but iran is quite high .
they have heroin addiction and also prostitution in iran .
india has many because they are many .
southeast asia , and so on .
but , there is one part of africa -- and the difficult thing is , at the same time , not to make a uniform statement about africa , not to come to simple ideas of why it is like this , on one hand . on the other hand , try to say that this is not the case , because there is a scientific consensus about this pattern now .
unaids have done good data available , finally , about the spread of hiv .
it could be concurrency .
it could be some virus types .
it could be that there is other things which makes transmission occur in a higher frequency .
after all , if you are completely healthy and you have heterosexual sex , the risk of infection in one intercourse is one in 1,000 .
don 't jump to conclusions now on how to behave tonight and so on .
but -- and if you are in an unfavorable situation , more sexually transmitted diseases , it can be one in 100 .
but what we think is that it could be concurrency .
and what is concurrency ?
in sweden , we have no concurrency .
we have serial monogamy .
vodka , new year 's eve -- new partner for the spring .
vodka , midsummer 's eve -- new partner for the fall .
vodka -- and it goes on like this , you know ?
and you collect a big number of exes .
and we have a terrible chlamydia epidemic -- terrible chlamydia epidemic which sticks around for many years .
hiv has a peak three to six weeks after infection and therefore , having more than one partner in the same month is much more dangerous for hiv than others .
probably , it 's a combination of this .
and what makes me so happy is that we are moving now towards fact when we look at this .
you can get this chart , free .
we have uploaded unaids data on the gapminder site .
and we hope that when we act on global problems in the future we will not only have the heart , we will not only have the money , but we will also use the brain .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / niall _ ferguson _ the _ 6 _ killer _ apps _ of _ prosperity.html
over the past few centuries , western cultures have been very good at creating general prosperity for themselves . historian niall ferguson asks : why the west , and less so the rest ? he suggests half a dozen big ideas from western culture -- call them the 6 killer apps -- that promote wealth , stability and innovation . and in this new century , he says , these apps are all shareable .
business , culture , economics , global issues
1226
niall ferguson : the 6 killer apps of prosperity
let 's talk about billions .
let 's talk about past and future billions .
we know that about 106 billion people have ever lived .
and we know that most of them are dead .
and we also know that most of them live or lived in asia .
and we also know that most of them were or are very poor -- did not live for very long .
let 's talk about billions .
the 195,000 billion dollars of wealth in the world today .
we know that most of that wealth was made after the year 1800 .
and we know that most of it is currently owned by people we might call westerners : europeans , north americans , australasians .
19 percent of the world 's population today , westerners own two-thirds of its wealth .
economic historians call this " the great divergence . "
and this slide here is the best simplification of the great divergence story i can offer you .
it 's basically two ratios of per capita gdp , per capita gross domestic product , so average income .
one , the red line , is the ratio of british to indian per capita income .
and the blue line is the ratio of american to chinese .
and this chart goes back to 1500 .
and you can see here that there 's an exponential great divergence .
they start off pretty close together .
in fact , in 1500 , the average chinese was richer than the average north american .
when you get to the 1970s , which is where this chart ends , the average briton is more than 10 times richer than the average indian .
and that 's allowing for differences in the cost of living .
it 's based on purchasing power parity .
the average american is nearly 20 times richer than the average chinese by the 1970s .
so why ?
this wasn 't just an economic story .
if you take the 10 countries that went on to become the western empires , in 1500 they were really quite tiny -- five percent of the world 's land surface , 16 percent of its population , maybe 20 percent of its income .
by 1913 , these 10 countries , plus the united states , controlled vast global empires -- 58 percent of the world 's territory ,
about the same percentage of its population , and a really huge , nearly three-quarters share of global economic output .
and notice , most of that went to the motherland , to the imperial metropoles , not to their colonial possessions .
now you can 't just blame this on imperialism -- though many people have tried to do so -- for two reasons .
one , empire was the least original thing that the west did after 1500 .
everybody did empire .
they beat preexisting oriental empires like the mughals and the ottomans .
so it really doesn 't look like empire is a great explanation for the great divergence .
in any case , as you may remember , the great divergence reaches its zenith in the 1970s , some considerable time after decolonization .
this is not a new question .
samuel johnson , the great lexicographer , [ posed ] it through his character rasselas in his novel " rasselas , prince of abissinia , " published in 1759 .
" by what means are the europeans thus powerful ; or why , since they can so easily visit asia and africa for trade or conquest , cannot the asiaticks and africans invade their coasts , plant colonies in their ports , and give laws to their natural princes ?
the same wind that carries them back would bring us thither ? "
that 's a great question . and you know what , it was also being asked at roughly the same time by the resterners -- by the people in the rest of the world -- like ibrahim muteferrika , an ottoman official , the man who introduced printing , very belatedly , to the ottoman empire -- who said in a book published in 1731 , " why do christian nations which were so weak in the past compared with muslim nations begin to dominate so many lands in modern times and even defeat the once victorious ottoman armies ? "
unlike rasselas , muteferrika had an answer to that question , which was correct .
he said it was " because they have laws and rules invented by reason . "
it 's not geography .
you may think we can explain the great divergence in terms of geography .
we know that 's wrong , because we conducted two great natural experiments in the 20th century to see if geography mattered more than institutions .
we took all the germans , we divided them roughly in two , and we gave the ones in the east communism , and you see the result .
within an incredibly short period of time , people living in the german democratic republic
produced trabants , the trabbi , one of the world 's worst ever cars , while people in the west produced the mercedes benz .
if you still don 't believe me , we conducted the experiment also in the korean peninsula .
and we decided we 'd take koreans in roughly the same geographical place with , notice , the same basic traditional culture , and we divided them in two , and we gave the northerners communism .
and the result is an even bigger divergence in a very short space of time than happened in germany .
not a big divergence in terms of uniform design for border guards admittedly , but in almost every other respect , it 's a huge divergence .
which leads me to think that neither geography nor national character , popular explanations for this kind of thing , are really significant .
it 's the ideas .
it 's the institutions .
this must be true because a scotsman said it .
and i think i 'm the only scotsman here at the edinburgh ted . so let me just explain to you that the smartest man ever was a scotsman .
he was adam smith -- not billy connolly , not sean connery -- though he is very smart indeed .
smith -- and i want you to go and bow down before his statue in the royal mile ; it 's a wonderful statue -- smith , in the " wealth of nations " published in 1776 -- that 's the most important thing that happened that year ...
you bet .
there was a little local difficulty in some of our minor colonies , but ...
" china seems to have been long stationary , and probably long ago acquired that full complement of riches which is consistent with the nature of its laws and institutions .
but this complement may be much inferior to what , with other laws and institutions , the nature of its soil , climate , and situation might admit of . "
that is so right and so cool .
and he said it such a long time ago .
but you know , this is a ted audience , and if i keep talking about institutions , you 're going to turn off .
so i 'm going to translate this into language that you can understand .
let 's call them the killer apps .
i want to explain to you that there were six killer apps that set the west apart from the rest .
and they 're kind of like the apps on your phone , in the sense that they look quite simple .
they 're just icons ; you click on them .
but behind the icon , there 's complex code .
it 's the same with institutions .
there are six which i think explain the great divergence .
one , competition .
two , the scientific revolution .
three , property rights .
four , modern medicine .
five , the consumer society .
and six , the work ethic .
you can play a game and try and think of one i 've missed at , or try and boil it down to just four , but you 'll lose .
let me very briefly tell you what i mean by this , synthesizing the work of many economic historians in the process .
competition means , not only were there a hundred different political units in europe in 1500 , but within each of these units , there was competition between corporations as well as sovereigns .
the ancestor of the modern corporation , the city of london corporation , existed in the 12th century .
nothing like this existed in china , where there was one monolithic state covering a fifth of humanity , and anyone with any ambition had to pass one standardized examination , which took three days and was very difficult and involved memorizing vast numbers of characters and very complex confucian essay writing .
the scientific revolution was different from the science that had been achieved in the oriental world in a number of crucial ways , the most important being that , through the experimental method , it gave men control over nature in a way that had not been possible before .
example : benjamin robins 's extraordinary application of newtonian physics to ballistics .
once you do that , your artillery becomes accurate .
think of what that means .
that really was a killer application .
meanwhile , there 's no scientific revolution anywhere else .
the ottoman empire 's not that far from europe , but there 's no scientific revolution there .
in fact , they demolish taqi al-din 's observatory , because it 's considered blasphemous to inquire into the mind of god .
property rights : it 's not the democracy , folks ; it 's having the rule of law based on private property rights .
that 's what makes the difference between north america and south america .
you could turn up in north america having signed a deed of indenture saying , " i 'll work for nothing for five years .
you just have to feed me . "
but at the end of it , you 've got a hundred acres of land .
that 's the land grant on the bottom half of the slide .
that 's not possible in latin america where land is held onto by a tiny elite descended from the conquistadors .
and you can see here the huge divergence that happens in property ownership between north and south .
most people in rural north america owned some land by 1900 .
hardly anyone in south america did .
that 's another killer app .
modern medicine in the late 19th century began to make major breakthroughs against the infectious diseases that killed a lot of people .
and this was another killer app -- the very opposite of a killer , because it doubled , and then more than doubled , human life expectancy .
it even did that in the european empires .
even in places like senegal , beginning in the early 20th century , there were major breakthroughs in public health , and life expectancy began to rise .
it doesn 't rise any faster after these countries become independent .
the empires weren 't all bad .
the consumer society is what you need for the industrial revolution to have a point .
you need people to want to wear tons of clothes .
you 've all bought an article of clothing in the last month ; i guarantee it .
that 's the consumer society ,
and it propels economic growth more than even technological change itself .
japan was the first non-western society to embrace it .
the alternative , which was proposed by mahatma gandhi , was to institutionalize and make poverty permanent .
very few indians today wish that india had gone down mahatma gandhi 's road .
finally , the work ethic .
max weber thought that was peculiarly protestant .
he was wrong .
any culture can get the work ethic if the institutions are there to create the incentive to work .
we know this because today the work ethic is no longer a protestant , western phenomenon .
in fact , the west has lost its work ethic .
today , the average korean works a thousand hours more a year than the average german -- a thousand .
and this is part of a really extraordinary phenomenon , and that is the end of the great divergence .
who 's got the work ethic now ?
take a look at mathematical attainment by 15 year-olds .
at the top of the international league table according to the latest pisa study , is the shanghai district of china .
the gap between shanghai and the united kingdom and the united states is as big as the gap between the u.k. and the u.s. and albania and tunisia .
you probably assume that because the iphone was designed in california but assembled in china that the west still leads in terms of technological innovation .
you 're wrong .
in terms of patents , there 's no question that the east is ahead .
not only has japan been ahead for some time , south korea has gone into third place , and china is just about to overtake germany .
why ?
because the killer apps can be downloaded .
it 's open source .
any society can adopt these institutions , and when they do , they achieve what the west achieved after 1500 -- only faster .
this is the great reconvergence , and it 's the biggest story of your lifetime .
because it 's on your watch that this is happening .
it 's our generation that is witnessing the end of western predominance .
the average american used to be more than 20 times richer than the average chinese .
now it 's just five times , and soon it will be 2.5 times .
so i want to end with three questions for the future billions , just ahead of 2016 , when the united states will lose its place as number one economy to china .
the first is , can you delete these apps , and are we in the process of doing so in the western world ?
the second question is , does the sequencing of the download matter ?
and could africa get that sequencing wrong ?
one obvious implication of modern economic history is that it 's quite hard to transition to democracy before you 've established secure private property rights .
warning : that may not work .
and third , can china do without killer app number three ?
that 's the one that john locke systematized when he said that freedom was rooted in private property rights and the protection of law .
that 's the basis for the western model of representative government .
now this picture shows the demolition of the chinese artist ai weiwei 's studio in shanghai earlier this year .
he 's now free again , having been detained , as you know , for some time .
but i don 't think his studio has been rebuilt .
winston churchill once defined civilization in a lecture he gave in the fateful year of 1938 .
and i think these words really nail it : " it means a society based upon the opinion of civilians .
it means that violence , the rule of warriors and despotic chiefs , the conditions of camps and warfare , of riot and tyranny , give place to parliaments where laws are made , and independent courts of justice in which over long periods those laws are maintained .
that is civilization -- and in its soil grow continually freedom , comfort and culture , " what all tedsters care about most .
" when civilization reigns in any country , a wider and less harassed life is afforded to the masses of the people . "
that 's so true .
i don 't think the decline of western civilization is inevitable , because i don 't think history operates in this kind of life-cycle model , beautifully illustrated by thomas cole 's " course of empire " paintings .
that 's not the way history works .
that 's not the way the west rose , and i don 't think it 's the way the west will fall .
the west may collapse very suddenly .
complex civilizations do that , because they operate , most of the time , on the edge of chaos .
that 's one of the most profound insights to come out of the historical study of complex institutions like civilizations .
no , we may hang on , despite the huge burdens of debt that we 've accumulated , despite the evidence that we 've lost our work ethic and other parts of our historical mojo .
but one thing is for sure , the great divergence is over , folks .
thanks very much .
bruno giussani : niall , i am just curious about your take on the other region of the world that 's booming , which is latin america .
what 's your view on that ?
niall ferguson : well i really am not just talking about the rise of the east ; i 'm talking about the rise of the rest , and that includes south america .
i once asked one of my colleagues at harvard , " hey , is south america part of the west ? "
he was an expert in latin american history .
he said , " i don 't know ; i 'll have to think about that . "
that tells you something really important .
i think if you look at what is happening in brazil in particular , but also chile , which was in many ways the one that led the way in transforming the institutions of economic life , there 's a very bright future indeed .
so my story really is as much about that convergence in the americas as it 's a convergence story in eurasia .
bg : and there is this impression that north america and europe are not really paying attention to these trends .
mostly they 're worried about each other .
the americans think that the european model is going to crumble tomorrow .
the europeans think that the american budget is going to explode tomorrow .
and that 's all we seem to be caring about recently .
nf : i think the fiscal crisis that we see in the developed world right now -- both sides of the atlantic -- is essentially the same thing taking different forms in terms of political culture .
and it 's a crisis that has its structural facet -- it 's partly to do with demographics .
but it 's also , of course , to do with the massive crisis that followed excessive leverage , excessive borrowing in the private sector .
that crisis , which has been the focus of so much attention , including by me , i think is an epiphenomenon .
the financial crisis is really a relatively small historic phenomenon , which has just accelerated this huge shift , which ends half a millennium of western ascendancy .
i think that 's its real importance .
bg : niall , thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / cheryl _ hayashi _ the _ magnificence _ of _ spider _ silk.html
cheryl hayashi studies spider silk , one of nature 's most high-performance materials . each species of spider can make up to 7 very different kinds of silk . how do they do it ? hayashi explains at the dna level -- then shows us how this super-strong , super-flexible material can inspire .
macarthur grant , biomechanics , biomimicry , science , technology
1296
cheryl hayashi : the magnificence of spider silk
i 'm here to spread the word about the magnificence of spiders and how much we can learn from them .
spiders are truly global citizens .
you can find spiders in nearly every terrestrial habitat .
this red dot marks the great basin of north america , and i 'm involved with an alpine biodiversity project there with some collaborators .
here 's one of our field sites , and just to give you a sense of perspective , this little blue smudge here , that 's one of my collaborators .
this is a rugged and barren landscape , yet there are quite a few spiders here .
turning rocks over revealed this crab spider grappling with a beetle .
spiders are not just everywhere , but they 're extremely diverse .
there are over 40,000 described species of spiders .
to put that number into perspective , here 's a graph comparing the 40,000 species of spiders to the 400 species of primates .
there are two orders of magnitude more spiders than primates .
spiders are also extremely old .
on the bottom here , this is the geologic timescale , and the numbers on it indicate millions of years from the present , so the zero here , that would be today .
so what this figure shows is that spiders date back to almost 380 million years .
to put that into perspective , this red vertical bar here marks the divergence time of humans from chimpanzees , a mere seven million years ago .
all spiders make silk at some point in their life .
most spiders use copious amounts of silk , and silk is essential to their survival and reproduction .
even fossil spiders can make silk , as we can see from this impression of a spinneret on this fossil spider .
so this means that both spiders and spider silk have been around for 380 million years .
it doesn 't take long from working with spiders to start noticing how essential silk is to just about every aspect of their life .
spiders use silk for many purposes , including the trailing safety dragline , wrapping eggs for reproduction , protective retreats and catching prey .
there are many kinds of spider silk .
for example , this garden spider can make seven different kinds of silks .
when you look at this orb web , you 're actually seeing many types of silk fibers .
the frame and radii of this web is made up of one type of silk , while the capture spiral is a composite of two different silks : the filament and the sticky droplet .
how does an individual spider make so many kinds of silk ?
to answer that , you have to look a lot closer at the spinneret region of a spider .
so silk comes out of the spinnerets , and for those of us spider silk biologists , this is what we call the " business end " of the spider .
we spend long days ...
hey ! don 't laugh . that 's my life .
we spend long days and nights staring at this part of the spider .
and this is what we see .
you can see multiple fibers coming out of the spinnerets , because each spinneret has many spigots on it .
each of these silk fibers exits from the spigot , and if you were to trace the fiber back into the spider , what you would find is that each spigot connects to its own individual
silk gland . a silk gland kind of looks like a sac with a lot of silk proteins stuck inside .
so if you ever have the opportunity to dissect an orb-web-weaving spider , and i hope you do , what you would find is a bounty of beautiful , translucent silk glands .
inside each spider , there are hundreds of silk glands , sometimes thousands .
these can be grouped into seven categories .
they differ by size , shape , and sometimes even color .
in an orb-web-weaving spider , you can find seven types of silk glands , and what i have depicted here in this picture , let 's start at the one o 'clock position , there 's tubuliform silk glands , which are used to make the outer silk of an egg sac .
there 's the aggregate and flagelliform silk glands which combine to make the sticky capture spiral of an orb web .
pyriform silk glands make the attachment cement -- that 's the silk that 's used to adhere silk lines to a substrate .
there 's also aciniform silk , which is used to wrap prey .
minor ampullate silk is used in web construction .
and the most studied silk line of them all : major ampullate silk .
this is the silk that 's used to make the frame and radii of an orb web , and also the safety trailing dragline .
but what , exactly , is spider silk ?
spider silk is almost entirely protein .
nearly all of these proteins can be explained by a single gene family , so this means that the diversity of silk types we see today is encoded by one gene family ,
so presumably the original spider ancestor made one kind of silk , and over the last 380 million years , that one silk gene has duplicated and then diverged , specialized , over and over and over again , to get the large variety of flavors of spider silks that we have today .
there are several features that all these silks have in common . they all have a common design , such as they 're all very long -- they 're sort of outlandishly long compared to other proteins .
they 're very repetitive , and they 're very rich in the amino acids glycine and alanine .
to give you an idea of what a spider silk protein looks like , this is a dragline silk protein , it 's just a portion of it , from the black widow spider .
this is the kind of sequence that i love looking at day and night .
so what you 're seeing here is the one letter abbreviation for amino acids , and i 've colored in the glycines with green , and the alanines in red , and so
you can see it 's just a lot of g 's and a 's .
you can also see that there 's a lot of short sequence motifs that repeat over and over and over again , so for example there 's a lot of what we call polyalanines , or iterated a 's , aaaaa . there 's ggq . there 's ggy .
you can think of these short motifs that repeat over and over again as words , and these words occur in sentences .
so for example this would be one sentence , and you would get this sort of green region and the red polyalanine , that repeats over and over and over again , and you can have that hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of times within an individual silk molecule .
silks made by the same spider can have dramatically different repeat sequences .
at the top of the screen , you 're seeing the repeat unit from the dragline silk of a garden argiope spider .
it 's short . and on the bottom , this is the repeat sequence for the egg case , or tubuliform silk protein , for the exact same spider . and you can see how dramatically different these silk proteins are -- so this is sort of the beauty of the diversification of the spider silk gene family .
you can see that the repeat units differ in length . they also differ in sequence .
so i 've colored in the glycines again in green , alanine in red , and the serines , the letter s , in purple . and you can see that the top repeat unit can be explained almost entirely by green and red , and the bottom repeat unit has a substantial amount of purple .
what silk biologists do is we try to relate these sequences , these amino acid sequences , to the mechanical properties of the silk fibers .
now , it 's really convenient that spiders use their silk completely outside their body .
this makes testing spider silk really , really easy to do in the laboratory , because we 're actually , you know , testing it in air that 's exactly the environment that spiders are using their silk proteins .
so this makes quantifying silk properties by methods such as tensile testing , which is basically , you know , tugging on one end of the fiber , very amenable .
here are stress-strain curves generated by tensile testing five fibers made by the same spider .
so what you can see here is that the five fibers have different behaviors .
specifically , if you look on the vertical axis , that 's stress . if you look at the maximum stress value for each of these fibers , you can see that there 's a lot of variation , and in fact dragline , or major ampullate silk , is the strongest of these fibers .
we think that 's because the dragline silk , which is used to make the frame and radii for a web , needs to be very strong .
on the other hand , if you were to look at strain -- this is how much a fiber can be extended -- if you look at the maximum value here , again , there 's a lot of variation and the clear winner is flagelliform , or the capture spiral filament .
in fact , this flagelliform fiber can actually stretch over twice its original length .
so silk fibers vary in their strength and also their extensibility .
in the case of the capture spiral , it needs to be so stretchy to absorb the impact of flying prey .
if it wasn 't able to stretch so much , then basically when an insect hit the web , it would just trampoline right off of it .
so if the web was made entirely out of dragline silk , an insect is very likely to just bounce right off . but by having really , really stretchy capture spiral silk , the web is actually able to absorb the impact of that intercepted prey .
there 's quite a bit of variation within the fibers that an individual spider can make .
we call that the tool kit of a spider .
that 's what the spider has to interact with their environment . but how about variation among spider species , so looking at one type of silk and looking at different species of spiders ?
this is an area that 's largely unexplored but here 's a little bit of data i can show you .
this is the comparison of the toughness of the dragline spilk spun by 21 species of spiders .
some of them are orb-weaving spiders and some of them are non-orb-weaving spiders .
it 's been hypothesized that orb-weaving spiders , like this argiope here , should have the toughest dragline silks because they must intercept flying prey .
what you see here on this toughness graph is the higher the black dot is on the graph , the higher the toughness .
the 21 species are indicated here by this phylogeny , this evolutionary tree , that shows their genetic relationships , and i 've colored in yellow the orb-web-weaving spiders .
if you look right here at the two red arrows , they point to the toughness values for the draglines of nephila clavipes and araneus diadematus .
these are the two species of spiders for which the vast majority of time and money on synthetic spider silk research has been to replicate their dragline silk proteins .
yet , their draglines are not the toughest .
in fact , the toughest dragline in this survey is this one right here in this white region , a non orb-web-weaving spider .
this is the dragline spun by scytodes , the spitting spider .
scytodes doesn 't use a web at all to catch prey . instead , scytodes sort of lurks around and waits for prey to get close to it , and then immobilizes prey by spraying a silk-like venom onto that insect .
think of hunting with silly string .
that 's how scytodes forages .
we don 't really know why scytodes needs such a tough dragline , but it 's unexpected results like this that make bio-prospecting so exciting and worthwhile .
it frees us from the constraints of our imagination .
now i 'm going to mark on the toughness values for nylon fiber , bombyx -- or domesticated silkworm silk -- wool , kevlar , and carbon fibers .
and what you can see is that nearly all the spider draglines surpass them .
it 's the combination of strength , extensibility and toughness that makes spider silk so special , and that has attracted the attention of biomimeticists , so people that turn to nature to try to find new solutions .
and the strength , extensibility and toughness of spider silks combined with the fact that silks do not elicit an immune response , have attracted a lot of interest in the use of spider silks in biomedical applications , for example , as a component of artificial tendons , for serving as guides to regrow nerves , and for scaffolds for tissue growth .
spider silks also have a lot of potential for their anti-ballistic capabilities .
silks could be incorporated into body and equipment armor that would be more lightweight and flexible than any armor available today .
in addition to these biomimetic applications of spider silks , personally , i find studying spider silks just fascinating in and of itself .
i love when i 'm in the laboratory , a new spider silk sequence comes in .
that 's just the best .
it 's like the spiders are sharing an ancient secret with me , and that 's why i 'm going to spend the rest of my life studying spider silk .
the next time you see a spider web , please , pause and look a little closer .
you 'll be seeing one of the most high-performance materials known to man .
to borrow from the writings of a spider named charlotte , silk is terrific .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / clay _ shirky _ on _ institutions _ versus _ collaboration.html
in this prescient 2005 talk , clay shirky shows how closed groups and companies will give way to looser networks where small contributors have big roles and fluid cooperation replaces rigid planning .
business , cognitive science , collaboration , culture , social change , society , technology
274
clay shirky on institutions vs. collaboration
how do groups get anything done ? right ?
how do you organize a group of individuals so that the output of the group is something coherent and of lasting value , instead of just being chaos ?
and the economic framing of that problem is called coordination costs .
and a coordination cost is essentially all of the financial or institutional difficulties in arranging group output .
and we 've had a classic answer for coordination costs , which is , if you want to coordinate the work of a group of people , you start an institution , right ? you raise some resources .
you found something . it can be private or public .
it can be for profit or not profit . it can be large or small .
but you get these resources together .
you found an institution , and you use the institution to coordinate the activities of the group .
more recently , because the cost of letting groups communicate with each other has fallen through the floor -- and communication costs are one of the big inputs to coordination -- there has been a second answer , which is to put the cooperation into the infrastructure , to design systems that coordinate the output of the group as a by-product of the operating of the system , without regard to institutional models .
so , that 's what i want to talk about today .
i 'm going to illustrate it with some fairly concrete examples , but always pointing to the broader themes .
so , i 'm going to start by trying to answer a question that i know each of you will have asked yourself at some point or other , and which the internet is purpose-built to answer , which is , where can i get a picture of a roller-skating mermaid ?
so , in new york city , on the first saturday of every summer , coney island , our local , charmingly run-down amusement park , hosts the mermaid parade . it 's an amateur parade ; people come from all over the city ; people get all dressed up .
some people get less dressed up .
young and old , dancing in the streets .
colorful characters , and a good time is had by all .
and what i want to call your attention to is not the mermaid parade itself , charming though it is , but rather to these photos .
i didn 't take them . how did i get them ?
and the answer is : i got them from flickr .
flickr is a photo-sharing service that allows people to take photos , upload them , share them over the web and so forth .
recently , flickr has added an additional function called tagging .
tagging was pioneered by delicious and joshua schachter .
delicious is a social bookmarking service .
tagging is a cooperative infrastructure answer to classification .
right ? if i had given this talk last year , i couldn 't do what i just did , because i couldn 't have found those photos .
but instead of saying , we need to hire a professional class of librarians to organize these photos once they 're uploaded , flickr simply turned over to the users the ability to characterize the photos .
so , i was able to go in and draw down photos that had been tagged " mermaid parade . " there were 3,100 photos taken by 118 photographers , all aggregated and then put under this nice , neat name , shown in reverse chronological order .
and i was then able to go and retrieve them to give you that little slideshow .
now , what hard problem is being solved here ?
and it 's -- in the most schematic possible view , it 's a coordination problem , right ?
there are a large number of people on the internet , a very small fraction of them have photos of the mermaid parade .
how do we get those people together to contribute that work ?
the classic answer is to form an institution , right ?
to draw those people into some prearranged structure that has explicit goals .
and i want to call your attention to some of the side effects of going the institutional route .
first of all , when you form an institution , you take on a management problem , right ?
no good just hiring employees ,
you also have to hire other employees to manage those employees and to enforce the goals of the institution and so forth .
secondly , you have to bring structure into place .
right ? you have to have economic structure .
you have to have legal structure .
you have to have physical structure .
and that creates additional costs .
third , forming an institution is inherently exclusionary .
you notice we haven 't got everybody who has a photo .
you can 't hire everyone in a company , right ?
you can 't recruit everyone into a governmental organization .
you have to exclude some people .
and fourth , as a result of that exclusion , you end up with a professional class . look at the change here .
we 've gone from people with photos to photographers .
right ? we 've created a professional class of photographers whose goal is to go out and photograph the mermaid parade , or whatever else they 're sent out to photograph .
when you build cooperation into the infrastructure , which is the flickr answer , you can leave the people where they are and you take the problem to the individuals , rather than moving the individuals to the problem .
you arrange the coordination in the group , and by doing that you get the same outcome , without the institutional difficulties .
you lose the institutional imperative .
you lose the right to shape people 's work when it 's volunteer effort , but you also shed the institutional cost , which gives you greater flexibility .
what flickr does is it replaces planning with coordination .
and this is a general aspect of these cooperative systems .
right . you 'll have experienced this in your life whenever you bought your first mobile phone ,
and you stopped making plans .
you just said , " i 'll call you when i get there . "
" call me when you get off work . " right ?
that is a point-to-point replacement of coordination with planning .
right . we 're now able to do that kind of thing with groups .
to say instead of , we must make an advance plan , we must have a five-year projection of where the wikipedia is going to be , or whatever , you can just say , let 's coordinate the group effort , and let 's deal with it as we go , because we 're now well-enough coordinated that we don 't have to take on the problems of deciding in advance what to do .
so here 's another example . this one 's somewhat more somber .
these are photos on flickr tagged " iraq . "
and everything that was hard about the coordination cost with the mermaid parade is even harder here .
there are more pictures . there are more photographers .
it 's taken over a wider geographic area .
the photos are spread out over a longer period of time .
and worst of all , that figure at the bottom , approximately ten photos per photographer , is a lie .
it 's mathematically true , but it doesn 't really talk about anything important -- because in these systems , the average isn 't really what matters .
what matters is this .
this is a graph of photographs tagged iraq as taken by the 529 photographers who contributed the 5,445 photos .
and it 's ranked in order of number of photos taken per photographer .
you can see here , over at the end , our most prolific photographer has taken around 350 photos , and you can see there 's a few people who have taken hundreds of photos .
then there 's dozens of people who 've taken dozens of photos .
and by the time we get around here , we get ten or fewer photos , and then there 's this long , flat tail .
and by the time you get to the middle , you 've got hundreds of people who have contributed only one photo each .
this is called a power-law distribution .
it appears often in unconstrained social systems where people are allowed to contribute as much or as little as they like -- this is often what you get . right ?
the math behind the power-law distribution is that whatever 's in the nth position is doing about one-nth of whatever 's being measured , relative to the person in the first position .
so , we 'd expect the tenth most prolific photographer to have contributed about a tenth of the photos , and the hundredth most prolific photographer to have contributed only about a hundred as many photos as the most prolific photographer did .
so , the head of the curve can be sharper or flatter .
but that basic math accounts both for the steep slope and for the long , flat tail .
and curiously , in these systems , as they grow larger , the systems don 't converge ; they diverge more .
in bigger systems , the head gets bigger and the tail gets longer , so the imbalance increases .
you can see the curve is obviously heavily left-weighted . here 's how heavily :
if you take the top 10 percent of photographers contributing to this system , they account for three quarters of the photos taken -- just the top 10 percent most prolific photographers .
if you go down to five percent , you 're still accounting for 60 percent of the photos .
if you go down to one percent , exclude 99 percent of the group effort , you 're still accounting for almost a quarter of the photos .
and because of this left weighting , the average is actually here , way to the left .
and that sounds strange to our ears , but what ends up happening is that 80 percent of the contributors have contributed a below-average amount .
that sounds strange because we expect average and middle to be about the same , but they 're not at all .
this is the math underlying the 80 / 20 rule . right ?
whenever you hear anybody talking about the 80 / 20 rule , this is what 's going on . right ?
20 percent of the merchandise accounts for 80 percent of the revenue , 20 percent of the users use 80 percent of the resources -- this is the shape people are talking about when that happens .
institutions only have two tools : carrots and sticks .
and the 80 percent zone is a no-carrot and no-stick zone .
the costs of running the institution mean that you cannot take on the work of those people easily in an institutional frame .
the institutional model always pushes leftwards , treating these people as employees .
the institutional response is , i can get 75 percent of the value for 10 percent of the hires -- great ,
that 's what i 'll do .
the cooperative infrastructure model says , why do you want to give up a quarter of the value ?
if your system is designed so that you have to give up a quarter of the value , re-engineer the system .
don 't take on the cost that prevents you from getting to the contributions of these people . build the system so that anybody can contribute at any amount .
so the coordination response asks not , how are these people as employees , but rather , what is their contribution like ? right ?
we have over here psycho milt , a flickr user , who has contributed one , and only one , photo titled " iraq . "
and here 's the photo . right . labeled , " bad day at work . "
right ? so the question is , do you want that photo ? yes or no .
the question is not , is psycho milt a good employee ?
and the tension here is between institution as enabler and institution as obstacle .
when you 're dealing with the left-hand edge of one of these distributions , when you 're dealing with the people who spend a lot of time producing a lot of the material you want , that 's an institution-as-enabler world .
you can hire those people as employees , you can coordinate their work and you can get some output .
but when you 're down here , where the psycho milts of the world are adding one photo at a time , that 's institution as obstacle .
institutions hate being told they 're obstacles .
one of the first things that happens when you institutionalize a problem is that the first goal of the institution immediately shifts from whatever the nominal goal was to self-preservation .
and the actual goal of the institution goes to two through n .
right ? so , when institutions are told they are obstacles , and that there are other ways of coordinating the value , they go through something a little bit like the kubler-ross stages -- -- of reaction , being told you have a fatal illness : denial , anger , bargaining , acceptance .
most of the cooperative systems we 've seen haven 't been around long enough to have gotten to the acceptance phase .
many , many institutions are still in denial , but we 're seeing recently a lot of both anger and bargaining .
there 's a wonderful , small example going on right now .
in france , a bus company is suing people for forming a carpool , right , because the fact that they have coordinated themselves to create cooperative value is depriving them of revenue .
you can follow this in the guardian .
it 's actually quite entertaining .
the bigger question is , what do you do about the value down here ?
right ? how do you capture that ?
and institutions , as i 've said , are prevented from capturing that .
steve ballmer , now ceo of microsoft , was criticizing linux a couple of years ago , and he said , " oh , this business of thousands of programmers contributing to linux , this is a myth .
we 've looked at who 's contributed to linux , and most of the patches have been produced by programmers who 've only done one thing . " right ?
you can hear this distribution under that complaint .
and you can see why , from ballmer 's point of view , that 's a bad idea , right ?
we hired this programmer , he came in , he drank our cokes and played foosball for three years and he had one idea .
right ? bad hire . right ?
the psycho milt question is , was it a good idea ?
what if it was a security patch ?
what if it was a security patch for a buffer overflow exploit , of which windows has not some , [ but ] several ?
do you want that patch , right ?
the fact that a single programmer can , without having to move into a professional relation to an institution , improve linux once and never be seen from again , should terrify ballmer .
because this kind of value is unreachable in classic institutional frameworks , but is part of cooperative systems of open-source software , of file sharing , of the wikipedia . i 've used a lot of examples from flickr , but there are actually stories about this from all over .
meetup , a service founded so that users could find people in their local area who share their interests and affinities and actually have a real-world meeting offline in a cafe or a pub or what have you .
when scott heiferman founded meetup , he thought it would be used for , you know , train spotters and cat fanciers -- classic affinity groups .
the inventors don 't know what the invention is .
number one group on meetup right now , most chapters in most cities with most members , most active ?
stay-at-home moms . right ?
in the suburbanized , dual-income united states , stay-at-home moms are actually missing the social infrastructure that comes from extended family and local , small-scale neighborhoods .
so they 're reinventing it , using these tools .
meetup is the platform , but the value here is in social infrastructure .
if you want to know what technology is going to change the world , don 't pay attention to 13-year-old boys -- pay attention to young mothers , because they have got not an ounce of support for technology that doesn 't materially make their lives better .
this is so much more important than xbox , but it 's a lot less glitzy .
i think this is a revolution .
i think that this is a really profound change in the way human affairs are arranged .
and i use that word advisedly .
it 's a revolution in that it 's a change in equilibrium .
it 's a whole new way of doing things , which includes new downsides .
in the united states right now , a woman named judith miller is in jail for not having given to a federal grand jury her sources -- she 's a reporter for the new york times -- her sources , in a very abstract and hard-to-follow case .
and journalists are in the street rallying to improve the shield laws .
the shield laws are our laws -- pretty much a patchwork of state laws -- that prevent a journalist from having to betray a source .
this is happening , however , against the background of the rise of web logging .
web logging is a classic example of mass amateurization .
it has de-professionalized publishing .
want to publish globally anything you think today ?
it is a one-button operation that you can do for free .
that has sent the professional class of publishing down into the ranks of mass amateurization .
and so the shield law , as much as we want it -- we want a professional class of truth-tellers -- it is becoming increasingly incoherent , because the institution is becoming incoherent .
there are people in the states right now tying themselves into knots , trying to figure out whether or not bloggers are journalists .
and the answer to that question is , it doesn 't matter , because that 's not the right question .
journalism was an answer to an even more important question , which is , how will society be informed ?
how will they share ideas and opinions ?
and if there is an answer to that that happens outside the professional framework of journalism , it makes no sense to take a professional metaphor and apply it to this distributed class .
so as much as we want the shield laws , the background -- the institution to which they were attached -- is becoming incoherent .
here 's another example .
pro-ana , the pro-ana groups .
these are groups of teenage girls who have taken on web logs , bulletin boards , other kinds of cooperative infrastructure , and have used it to set up support groups for remaining anorexic by choice .
they post pictures of thin models , which they call " thinspiration . "
they have little slogans , like " salvation through starvation . " they even have lance armstrong-style bracelets , these red bracelets , which signify , in the small group , i am trying to maintain my eating disorder .
they trade tips , like , if you feel like eating something , clean a toilet or the litter box . the feeling will pass .
we 're used to support groups being beneficial .
we have an attitude that support groups are inherently beneficial .
but it turns out that the logic of the support group is value neutral .
a support group is simply a small group that wants to maintain a way of living in the context of a larger group .
now , when the larger group is a bunch of drunks , and the small group wants to stay sober , then we think , that 's a great support group .
but when the small group is teenage girls who want to stay anorexic by choice , then we 're horrified .
what 's happened is that the normative goals of the support groups that we 're used to , came from the institutions that were framing them , and not from the infrastructure .
once the infrastructure becomes generically available , the logic of the support group has been revealed to be accessible to anyone , including people pursuing these kinds of goals .
so , there are significant downsides to these changes as well as upsides . and of course , in the current environment , one need allude only lightly to the work of non-state actors trying to influence global affairs , and taking advantage of these .
this is a social map of the hijackers and their associates who perpetrated the 9 / 11 attack .
it was produced by analyzing their communications patterns using a lot of these tools . and doubtless the intelligence communities of the world are doing the same work today for the attacks of last week .
now , this is the part of the talk where i tell you what 's going to come as a result of all of this , but i 'm running out of time , which is good , because i don 't know .
right . as with the printing press , if it 's really a revolution , it doesn 't take us from point a to point b .
it takes us from point a to chaos .
the printing press precipitated 200 years of chaos , moving from a world where the catholic church was the sort of organizing political force to the treaty of westphalia , when we finally knew what the new unit was : the nation state .
now , i 'm not predicting 200 years of chaos as a result of this . 50 .
50 years in which loosely coordinated groups are going to be given increasingly high leverage , and the more those groups forego traditional institutional imperatives -- like deciding in advance what 's going to happen , or the profit motive -- the more leverage they 'll get .
and institutions are going to come under an increasing degree of pressure , and the more rigidly managed , and the more they rely on information monopolies , the greater the pressure is going to be .
and that 's going to happen one arena at a time , one institution at a time . the forces are general , but the results are going to be specific .
and so the point here is not , " this is wonderful , " or " we 're going to see a transition from only institutions to only cooperative framework . "
it 's going to be much more complicated than that .
but the point is that it 's going to be a massive readjustment .
and since we can see it in advance and know it 's coming , my argument is essentially : we might as well get good at it .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / peter _ reinhart _ on _ bread.html
batch to batch , crust to crust ... in tribute to the beloved staple food , baking master peter reinhart reflects on the cordial couplings that give us our daily bread . try not to eat a slice .
art , book , chemistry , death , food , life , love , science
433
peter reinhart on bread
this is a wheat bread , a whole wheat bread , and it 's made with a new technique that i 've been playing around with , and developing and writing about which , for lack of a better name , we call the epoxy method .
and i call it an epoxy method because -- it 's not very appetizing . i understand that -- but -- but if you think about epoxy , what 's epoxy ?
it 's two resins that are , sort of , in and of themselves -- neither of which can make glue , but when you put the two together , something happens . a bond takes place , and you get this very strong , powerful adhesive .
well , in this technique , what i 've tried to do is kind of gather all of the knowledge that the bread-baking world , the artisan bread-baking community , has been trying to accumulate over the last 20 years or so -- since we 've been engaged in a bread renaissance in america -- and put it together to come up with a method that would help to take whole-grain breads .
and let 's face it , everyone 's trying to move towards whole grains .
we finally , after 40 years of knowing that wholegrain was a healthier option , we 're finally getting to the point where we actually are tipping over and attempting to actually eat them .
the challenge , though , for a wholegrain baker is , you know , how do you make it taste good ?
because whole grain -- it 's easy with white flour to make a good-tasting bread . white flour is sweet .
it 's mainly starch , and starch , when you break it down -- what is starch ? it 's -- thank you -- sugar , yes .
so a baker , and a good baker , knows how to pull or draw forth the inherent sugar trapped in the starch .
with whole grain bread , you have other obstacles .
you 've got bran , which is probably the healthiest part of the bread for us , or the fiber for us because it is just loaded with fiber ,
for the bran is fiber .
it 's got germ . those are the good things , but those aren 't the tastiest parts of the wheat .
so whole grain breads historically have had sort of this onus of being health food breads ,
and people don 't like to eat , quote , health food . they like to eat healthy and healthily , but when we think of something as a health food , we think of it as something we eat out of obligation , not out of passion and love for the flavor .
and ultimately , the challenge of the baker , the challenge of every culinary student , of every chef , is to deliver flavor .
flavor is king . flavor rules .
i call it the flavor rule . flavor rules .
and -- and
you can get somebody to eat something that 's good for them once , but they won 't eat it again if they don 't like it , right ?
so , this is the challenge for this bread .
we 're going to try this at lunch , and i 'll explain a bit more about it , but it 's made not only with two types of pre-doughs --
this attempt , again , at bringing out flavor is to make a piece of dough the day before that is not leavened .
it 's just dough that is wet .
it 's hydrated dough we call " the soaker " -- that helps to start enzyme activity .
and enzymes are the secret , kind of , ingredient in dough that brings out flavor .
it starts to release the sugars trapped in the starch .
that 's what enzymes are doing .
and so , if we can release some of those , they become accessible to us in our palate .
they become accessible to the yeast as food .
they become accessible to the oven for caramelization to give us a beautiful crust .
the other pre-dough that we make is fermented -- our pre-ferment .
and it 's made -- it can be a sourdough starter , or what we call a " biga " or any other kind of pre-fermented dough with a little yeast in it ,
and that starts to develop flavor also .
and on day two , we put those two pieces together . that 's the epoxy .
and we 're hoping that , sort of , the enzyme piece of dough becomes the fuel pack for the leavened piece of dough ,
and when we put them together and add the final ingredients , we can create a bread that does evoke the full potential of flavor trapped in the grain .
that 's the challenge . okay , so , now , what we --
in the journey of wheat , let 's go back and look at these 12 stages .
i 'm going to go through them very quickly and then revisit them .
okay , we 're going to start with the first stage .
and this is what every student has to begin with .
everyone who works in the culinary world knows that the first stage of cooking is " mise en place , "
which is just a french way of saying , " get organized . "
everything in its place . first stage .
so in baking we call it scaling -- weighing out the ingredients .
stage two is mixing . we take the ingredients and we mix them .
we have to develop the gluten .
there 's no gluten in flour . there 's only the potential for gluten .
here 's another kind of prefiguring of epoxy because we 've got glutenin and gliadin ,
neither of which are strong enough to make a good bread . but when they get hydrated and they bond to each other , they create a stronger molecule , a stronger protein we call gluten .
and so we , in the mixing process , have to develop the gluten , we have to activate the leaven or the yeast , and we have to essentially distribute all the ingredients evenly .
then we get into fermentation , the third stage , which is really where the flavor develops .
the yeast comes alive and starts eating the sugars , creating carbon dioxide and alcohol --
essentially it 's burping and sweating , which is what bread is . it 's yeast burps and sweat .
and somehow , this is transformed -- the yeast burps and sweats are later transformed -- and this is really getting to the heart of what makes bread so special is that it is a transformational food ,
and we 're going to explore that in a minute . but then , quickly through the next few stages .
we , after it 's fermented and it 's developed , started to develop flavor and character , we divide it into smaller units .
and then we take those units and we shape them . we give them a little pre-shape , usually a round or a little torpedo shape , sometimes .
that 's called " rounding . "
and there 's a short rest period . it can be for a few seconds .
it can be for 20 or 30 minutes . we call that resting or benching .
then we go into final shaping , " panning " -- which means putting the shaped loaf on a pan .
this takes a second , but it 's a distinctive stage .
it can be in a basket . it can be in a loaf pan , but we pan it .
and then , stage nine .
the fermentation which started at stage three is continuing through all these other stages . again , developing more flavor .
the final fermentation takes place in stage nine .
we call it " proofing . "
proofing means to prove that the dough is alive .
and at stage nine we get the dough to the final shape , and it goes into the oven -- stage 10 .
three transformations take place in the oven .
the sugars in the dough caramelize in the crust .
they give us that beautiful brown crust .
only the crust can caramelize . it 's the only place that gets hot enough .
inside , the proteins -- this gluten -- coagulates .
when it gets to about 160 degrees , the proteins all line up and they create structure , the gluten structure -- what ultimately we will call the crumb of the bread .
and the starches , when they reach about 180 degrees , gelatinize .
and gelatinization is yet another oven transformation .
coagulation , caramelization and gelatinization --
when the starch is thick and they absorb all the moisture that 's around them , they -- they kind of swell , and then they burst .
and they burst , and they spill their guts into the bread .
so basically now we 're eating yeast sweats -- sweat , burps and starch guts .
again , transformed in stage 10 in the oven because what went into the oven as dough comes out in stage 11 as bread .
and stage 11 , we call it cooling -- because we never really eat the bread right away .
there 's a little carry-over baking .
the proteins have to set up , strengthen and firm up .
and then we have stage 12 , which the textbooks call " packaging , " but my students call " eating . "
and so , we 're going to be on our own journey today from wheat to eat , and in a few minutes we will try this , and see if we have succeeded in fulfilling this baker 's mission of pulling out flavor .
but i want to go back now and revisit these steps , and talk about it from the standpoint of transformation , because i really believe that all things can be understood --
and this is not my own idea . this goes back to the scholastics and to the ancients -- that all things can be understood on four levels : the literal , the metaphoric or poetic level , the political or ethical level . and ultimately , the mystical or sometimes called the " anagogical " level .
it 's hard to get to those levels unless you go through the literal .
in fact , dante says you can 't understand the three deeper levels unless you first understand the literal level ,
so that 's why we 're talking literally about bread .
from the standpoint of connections to possibly a deeper level -- all in my quest for answering the question , " what is it about bread that 's so special ? "
and fulfilling this mission of evoking the full potential of flavor .
because what happens is , bread begins as wheat or any other grain .
but what 's wheat ? wheat is a grass that grows in the field .
and , like all grasses , at a certain point it puts out seeds .
and we harvest those seeds , and those are the wheat kernels .
now , in order to harvest it -- i mean , what 's harvesting ?
it 's just a euphemism for killing , right ?
i mean , that 's what 's harvest -- we say we harvest the pig , you know ?
yes , we slaughter , you know . yes , that 's life .
we harvest the wheat , and in harvesting it , we kill it .
now , wheat is alive , and as we harvest it , it gives up its seeds .
now , at least with seeds we have the potential for future life .
we can plant those in the ground . and we save some of those for the next generation .
but most of those seeds get crushed and turned into flour .
and at that point , the wheat has suffered the ultimate indignity .
it 's not only been killed , but it 's been denied any potential for creating future life .
so we turn it into flour .
so as i said , i think bread is a transformational food .
the first transformation -- and , by the way , the definition of transformation for me is a radical change from one thing into something else .
o.k. ? radical , not subtle .
not like hot water made cold , or cold water turned hot , but water boiled off and becoming steam .
that 's a transformation , two different things .
well , in this case , the first transformation is alive to dead .
i 'd call that radical .
so , we 've got now this flour .
and what do we do ? we add some water .
in stage one , we weigh it .
in stage two , we add water and salt to it , mix it together , and we create something that we call " clay . "
it 's like clay .
and we infuse that clay with an ingredient that we call " leaven . "
in this case , it 's yeast , but yeast is leaven . what does leaven mean ?
leaven comes from the root word that means enliven -- to vivify , to bring to life .
by the way , what 's the hebrew word for clay ? adam .
you see , the baker , in this moment , has become , in a sense , sort of , the god of his dough , you know , and his dough , well , while it 's not an intelligent life form , is now alive .
and we know it 's alive because in stage three , it grows . growth is the proof of life .
and while it 's growing , all these literal transformations are taking place .
enzymes are breaking forth sugars .
yeast is eating sugar and turning it into carbon dioxide and alcohol .
bacteria is in there , eating the same sugars , turning them into acids .
in other words , personality and character 's being developed in this dough under the watchful gaze of the baker .
and the baker 's choices all along the way determine the outcome of the product .
a subtle change in temperature -- a subtle change in time -- it 's all about a balancing act between time , temperature and ingredients . that 's the art of baking .
so all these things are determined by the baker , and the bread goes through some stages , and characters develop .
and then we divide it , and this one big piece of dough is divided into smaller units , and each of those units are given shape by the baker .
and as they 're shaped , they 're raised again , all along proving that they 're alive , and developing character .
and at stage 10 , we take it to the oven .
it 's still dough . nobody eats bread dough --
a few people do , i think , but not too many .
i 've met some dough eaters , but -- it 's not the staff of life , right ? bread is the staff of life .
but dough is what we 're working with , and we take that dough to the oven ,
and it goes into the oven . as soon as the interior temperature of that dough crosses the threshold of 140 degrees , it passes what we call the " thermal death point . "
students love that tdp . they think it 's the name of a video game . but it 's the thermal death point -- all life ceases there .
the yeast , whose mission it has been up till now to raise the dough , to enliven it , to vivify it , in order to complete its mission , which is also to turn this dough into bread , has to give up its life .
so you see the symbolism at work ? it 's starting to come forth a little bit , you know .
it 's starting to make sense to me -- what goes in is dough , what comes out is bread -- or it goes in alive , comes out dead .
third transformation . first transformation , alive to dead .
second transformation , dead brought back to life .
third transformation , alive to dead --
but dough to bread .
or another analogy would be , a caterpillar has been turned into a butterfly .
and it 's what comes out of the oven that is what we call the staff of life .
this is the product that everyone in the world eats , that is so difficult to give up .
it 's so deeply embedded in our psyches that bread is used as a symbol for life .
it 's used as a symbol for transformation .
and so , as we get to stage 12 and we partake of that , again completing the life cycle , you know , we have a chance to essentially ingest that --
it nurtures us , and we continue to carry on and have opportunities to ponder things like this .
so this is what i 've learned from bread .
this is what bread has taught me in my journey .
and what we 're going to attempt to do with this bread here , again , is to use , in addition to everything we talked about , this bread we 're going to call " spent grain bread " because , as you know , bread-making is very similar to beer-making .
beer is basically liquid bread , or bread is solid beer .
and --
they -- they 're invented around the same time . i think beer came first .
and the egyptian who was tending the beer fell asleep in the hot , egyptian sun , and it turned into bread .
but we 've got this bread , and what i did here is to try to , again , evoke even more flavor from this grain , was we 've added into it the spent grain from beer-making .
and if you make this bread , you can use any kind of spent grain from any type of beer .
i like dark spent grain . today we 're using a light spent grain that 's actually from , like , some kind of a lager of some sort -- a light lager or an ale -- that is wheat and barley that 's been toasted .
in other words , the beer-maker knows also how to evoke flavor from the grains by using sprouting and malting and roasting .
we 're going to take some of that , and put it into the bread .
so now we not only have a high-fiber bread , but now fiber on top of fiber . and so this is , again , hopefully not only a healthy bread , but a bread that you will enjoy .
so , if i , kind of , break this bread , maybe we can share this now a little bit here .
we 'll start a little piece here ,
and i 'm going to take a little piece here --
i think i 'd better taste it myself before you have it at lunch .
i 'll leave you with what i call the baker 's blessing .
may your crust be crisp , and your bread always rise .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / mark _ applebaum _ the _ mad _ scientist _ of _ music.html
mark applebaum writes music that breaks the rules in fantastic ways , composing a concerto for a florist and crafting a musical instrument from junk and found objects . this quirky talk might just inspire you to shake up the " rules " of your own creative work .
art , composing , music
1526
mark applebaum : the mad scientist of music
i thought if i skipped it might help my nerves , but i 'm actually having a paradoxical reaction to that , so that was a bad idea .
anyway , i was really delighted to receive the invitation to present to you some of my music and some of my work as a composer , presumably because it appeals to my well-known and abundant narcissism .
and i 'm not kidding , i just think we should just say that and move forward .
so , but the thing is , a dilemma quickly arose , and that is that i 'm really bored with music , and i 'm really bored with the role of the composer , and so i decided to put that idea , boredom , as the focus of my presentation to you today .
and i 'm going to share my music with you , but i hope that i 'm going to do so in a way that tells a story , tells a story about how i used boredom as a catalyst for creativity and invention , and how boredom actually forced me to change the fundamental question that i was asking in my discipline , and how boredom also , in a sense , pushed me towards taking on roles beyond the sort of most traditional , narrow definition of a composer .
what i 'd like to do today is to start with an excerpt of a piece of music at the piano .
okay , i wrote that .
no , it 's not - oh , why thank you .
no , no , i didn 't write that .
in fact , that was a piece by beethoven , and so i was not functioning as a composer .
just now i was functioning in the role of the interpreter , and there i am , interpreter .
so , an interpreter of what ? of a piece of music , right ?
but we can ask the question , " but is it music ? " and i say this rhetorically , because of course by just about any standard we would have to concede that this is , of course , a piece of music , but i put this here now because , just to set it in your brains for the moment , because we 're going to return to this question .
it 's going to be a kind of a refrain as we go through the presentation .
so here we have this piece of music by beethoven , and my problem with it is , it 's boring .
i mean , you - i 'm just like , a hush , huh -- it 's like -- it 's beethoven , how can you say that ?
no , well , i don 't know , it 's very familiar to me .
i had to practice it as a kid , and i 'm really sick of it . so -- i would , so what i might like to try to do is to change it , to transform it in some ways , to personalize it , so i might take the opening , like this idea -- and then i might substitute -- and then i might improvise on that melody that goes forward from there -- so that might be the kind of thing -- why thank you .
that would be the kind of thing that i would do , and it 's not necessarily better than the beethoven .
in fact , i think it 's not better than it . the thing is -- --
it 's more interesting to me . it 's less boring for me .
i 'm really leaning into me , because i , because i have to think about what decisions i 'm going to make on the fly as that beethoven text is running in time through my head and i 'm trying to figure out what kinds of transformations i 'm going to make to it .
so this is an engaging enterprise for me , and i 've really leaned into that first person pronoun thing there , and now my face appears twice , so i think we can agree that this is a fundamentally solipsistic enterprise .
but it 's an engaging one , and it 's interesting to me for a while , but then i get bored with it , and by it , i actually mean , the piano , because it becomes , it 's this familiar instrument , it 's timbral range is actually pretty compressed , at least when you play on the keyboard , and if you 're not doing things like listening to it after you 've lit it on fire or something like that , you know .
it gets a little bit boring , and so pretty soon i go through other instruments , they become familiar , and eventually i find myself designing and constructing my own instrument , and i brought one with me today , and i thought i would play a little bit on it for you so you can hear what it sounds like .
you gotta have doorstops , that 's important .
i 've got combs . they 're the only combs that i own .
they 're all mounted on my instruments .
i can actually do all sorts of things . i can play with a violin bow . i don 't have to use the chopsticks .
so we have this sound .
and with a bank of live electronics , i can change the sounds radically .
like that , and like this .
and so forth .
so this gives you a little bit of an idea of the sound world of this instrument , which i think is quite interesting and it puts me in the role of the inventor , and the nice thing about - this instrument is called the mouseketeer ...
and the cool thing about it is i 'm the world 's greatest mouseketeer player .
okay ?
so in that regard , this is one of the things , this is one of the privileges of being , and here 's another role , the inventor , and by the way , when i told you that i 'm the world 's greatest , if you 're keeping score , we 've had narcissism and solipsism and now a healthy dose of egocentricism .
i know some of you are just , you know , bingo ! or , i don 't know .
anyway , so this is also a really enjoyable role .
i should concede also that i 'm the world 's worst mouseketeer player , and it was this distinction that i was most worried about when i was on that prior side of the tenure divide .
i 'm glad i 'm past that . we 're not going to go into that .
i 'm crying on the inside . there are still scars .
anyway , but i guess my point is that all of these enterprises are engaging to me in their multiplicity , but as i 've presented them to you today , they 're actually solitary enterprises , and so pretty soon i want to commune with other people , and so i 'm delighted that in fact i get to compose works for them .
i get to write , sometimes for soloists and i get to work with one person , sometimes full orchestras , and i work with a lot of people , and this is probably the capacity , the role creatively for which i 'm probably best known professionally .
now , some of my scores as a composer look like this , and others look like this , and some look like this , and i make all of these by hand , and it 's really tedious .
it takes a long , long time to make these scores , and right now i 'm working on a piece that 's 180 pages in length , and it 's just a big chunk of my life , and i 'm just pulling out hair .
i have a lot of it , and that 's a good thing i suppose .
so this gets really boring and really tiresome for me , so after a while the process of notating is not only boring , but i actually want the notation to be more interesting , and so that 's pushed me to do other projects like this one .
this is an excerpt from a score called " the metaphysics of notation . "
the full score is 72 feet wide .
it 's a bunch of crazy pictographic notation .
let 's zoom in on one section of it right here . you can see it 's rather detailed . i do all of this with drafting templates , with straight edges , with french curves , and by freehand , and the 72 feet was actually split into 12 six-foot-wide panels that were installed around the cantor arts center museum lobby balcony , and it appeared for one year in the museum , and during that year , it was experienced as visual art most of the week , except , as you can see in these pictures , on fridays , from noon til one , and only during that time , various performers came and interpreted these strange and undefined pictographic glyphs .
now this was a really exciting experience for me .
it was gratifying musically , but i think the more important thing is it was exciting because i got to take on another role , especially given that it appeared in a museum , and that is as visual artist .
we 're going to fill up the whole thing , don 't worry .
i am multitudes .
would say , like , " oh , you 're being a dilettante , " and maybe that 's true . i can understand how , i mean , because i don 't have a pedigree in visual art and i don 't have any training , but it 's just something that i wanted to do as an extension of my composition , as an extension of a kind of creative impulse .
i can understand the question , though . " but is it music ? " i mean , there 's not any traditional notation .
i can also understand that sort of implicit criticism in this piece , " s-tog , " which i made when i was living in copenhagen .
i took the copenhagen subway map and i renamed all the stations to abstract musical provocations , and the players , who are synchronized with stopwatches , follow the timetables , which are listed in minutes past the hour .
so this is a case of actually adapting something , or maybe stealing something , and then turning it into a musical notation .
another adaptation would be this piece .
i took the idea of the wristwatch , and i turned it into a musical score .
i made my own faces , and had a company fabricate them , and the players follow these scores .
they follow the second hands , and as they pass over the various symbols , the players respond musically .
here 's another example from another piece , and then its realization .
so in these two capacities , i 've been scavenger , in the sense of taking , like , the subway map , right , or thief maybe , and i 've also been designer , in the case of making the wristwatches .
and once again , this is , for me , interesting .
another role that i like to take on is that of the performance artist .
some of my pieces have these kind of weird theatric elements , and i often perform them . i want to show you a clip from a piece called " echolalia . " this is actually being performed by brian mcwhorter , who is an extraordinary performer .
let 's watch a little bit of this , and please notice the instrumentation .
okay , i hear you were laughing nervously because you too could hear that the drill was a little bit sharp , the intonation was a little questionable .
let 's watch just another clip .
you can see the mayhem continues , and there 's , you know , there were no clarinets and trumpets and flutes and violins . here 's a piece that has an even more unusual , more peculiar instrumentation .
this is " tlon , " for three conductors and no players .
this was based on the experience of actually watching two people having a virulent argument in sign language , which produced no decibels to speak of , but affectively , psychologically , was a very loud experience .
so , yeah , i get it , with , like , the weird appliances and then the total absence of conventional instruments and this glut of conductors , people might , you know , wonder , yeah , " is this music ? " but let 's move on to a piece where clearly i 'm behaving myself , and that is my " concerto for orchestra . "
you 're going to notice a lot of conventional instruments in this clip .
this , in fact , is not the title of this piece . i was a bit mischievous . in fact , to make it more interesting , i put a space right in here , and this is the actual title of the piece .
let 's continue with that same excerpt .
it 's better with a florist , right ?
or at least it 's less boring . let 's watch a couple more clips .
so with all these theatric elements , this pushes me in another role , and that would be , possibly , the dramaturge .
i was playing nice . i had to write the orchestra bits , right ?
okay ? but then there was this other stuff , right ?
there was the florist , and i can understand that , once again , we 're putting pressure on the ontology of music as we know it conventionally , but let 's look at one last piece today i 'm going to share with you .
this is going to be a piece called " aphasia , " and it 's for hand gestures synchronized to sound , and this invites yet another role , and final one i 'll share with you , which is that of the choreographer .
and the score for the piece looks like this , and it instructs me , the performer , to make various hand gestures at very specific times synchronized with an audio tape , and that audio tape is made up exclusively of vocal samples .
i recorded an awesome singer , and i took the sound of his voice in my computer , and i warped it in countless ways to come up with the soundtrack that you 're about to hear .
and i 'll perform just an excerpt of " aphasia " for you here . okay ?
so that gives you a little taste of that piece .
yeah , okay , that 's kind of weird stuff .
is it music ? here 's how i want to conclude .
i 've decided , ultimately , that this is the wrong question , that this is not the important question .
the important question is , " is it interesting ? " and i follow this question , not worrying about " is it music ? " not worrying about the definition of the thing that i 'm making .
i allow my creativity to push me in directions that are simply interesting to me , and i don 't worry about the likeness of the result to some notion , some paradigm , of what music composition is supposed to be , and that has actually urged me , in a sense , to take on a whole bunch of different roles , and so what i want you to think about is , to what extent might you change the fundamental question in your discipline , and , okay , i 'm going to put one extra little footnote in here , because , like , i realized i mentioned some psychological defects earlier , and we also , along the way , had a fair amount of obsessive behavior , and there was some delusional behavior and things like that , and here i think we could say that this is an argument for self-loathing and a kind of schizophrenia , at least in the popular use of the term , and i really mean dissociative identity disorder , okay .
anyway , despite those perils , i would urge you to think about the possibility that you might take on roles in your own work , whether they are neighboring or far-flung from your professional definition .
and with that , i thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / alison _ gopnik _ what _ do _ babies _ think.html
" babies and young children are like the r & d division of the human species , " says psychologist alison gopnik . her research explores the sophisticated intelligence-gathering and decision-making that babies are really doing when they play .
brain , children , culture , education , psychology
1241
alison gopnik : what do babies think ?
what is going on in this baby 's mind ?
if you 'd asked people this 30 years ago , most people , including psychologists , would have said that this baby was irrational , illogical , egocentric -- that he couldn 't take the perspective of another person or understand cause and effect .
in the last 20 years , developmental science has completely overturned that picture .
so in some ways , we think that this baby 's thinking is like the thinking of the most brilliant scientists .
let me give you just one example of this .
one thing that this baby could be thinking about , that could be going on in his mind , is trying to figure out what 's going on in the mind of that other baby .
after all , one of the things that 's hardest for all of us to do is to figure out what other people are thinking and feeling .
and maybe the hardest thing of all is to figure out that what other people think and feel isn 't actually exactly like what we think and feel .
anyone who 's followed politics can testify to how hard that is for some people to get .
we wanted to know if babies and young children could understand this really profound thing about other people .
now the question is : how could we ask them ?
babies , after all , can 't talk , and if you ask a three year-old to tell you what he thinks , what you 'll get is a beautiful stream of consciousness monologue about ponies and birthdays and things like that .
so how do we actually ask them the question ?
well it turns out that the secret was broccoli .
what we did -- betty rapacholi , who was one of my students , and i -- was actually to give the babies two bowls of food : one bowl of raw broccoli and one bowl of delicious goldfish crackers .
now all of the babies , even in berkley , like the crackers and don 't like the raw broccoli .
but then what betty did was to take a little taste of food from each bowl .
and she would act as if she liked it or she didn 't .
so half the time , she acted as if she liked the crackers and didn 't like the broccoli -- just like a baby and any other sane person .
but half the time , what she would do is take a little bit of the broccoli and go , " mmmmm , broccoli .
i tasted the broccoli . mmmmm . "
and then she would take a little bit of the crackers , and she 'd go , " eww , yuck , crackers .
i tasted the crackers . eww , yuck . "
so she 'd act as if what she wanted was just the opposite of what the babies wanted .
we did this with 15 and 18 month-old babies .
and then she would simply put her hand out and say , " can you give me some ? " so the question is : what would the baby give her , what they liked or what she liked ?
and the remarkable thing was that 18 month-old babies , just barely walking and talking , would give her the crackers if she liked the crackers , but they would give her the broccoli if she liked the broccoli .
on the other hand , 15 month-olds would stare at her for a long time if she acted as if she liked the broccoli , like they couldn 't figure this out .
but then after they stared for a long time , they would just give her the crackers , what they thought everybody must like .
so there are two really remarkable things about this . the first one is that these little 18 month-old babies have already discovered this really profound fact about human nature , that we don 't always want the same thing .
and what 's more , they felt that they should actually do things to help other people get what they wanted .
even more remarkably though , the fact that 15 month-olds didn 't do this suggests that these 18 month-olds had learned this deep , profound fact about human nature in the three months from when they were 15 months old .
so children both know more and learn more than we ever would have thought .
and this is just one of hundreds and hundreds of studies over the last 20 years that 's actually demonstrated it .
the question you might ask though is : why do children learn so much ?
and how is it possible for them to learn so much in such a short time ?
i mean , after all , if you look at babies superficially , they seem pretty useless .
and actually in many ways , they 're worse than useless , because we have to put so much time and energy into just keeping them alive .
but if we turn to evolution for an answer to this puzzle of why we spend so much time taking care of useless babies , it turns out that there 's actually an answer .
if we look across many , many different species of animals , not just us primates , but also including other mammals , birds , even marsupials like kangaroos and wombats , it turns out that there 's a relationship between how long a childhood a species has and how big their brains are compared to their bodies and how smart and flexible they are .
and sort of the posterbirds for this idea are the birds up there .
on one side is a new caledonian crow .
and crows and other corvidae , ravens , rooks and so forth , are incredibly smart birds .
they 're as smart as chimpanzees in some respects .
and this is a bird on the cover of science who 's learned how to use a tool to get food .
on the other hand , we have our friend the domestic chicken .
and chickens and ducks and geese and turkeys are basically as dumb as dumps .
so they 're very , very good at pecking for grain , and they 're not much good at doing anything else .
well it turns out that the babies , the new caledonian crow babies , are fledglings .
they depend on their moms to drop worms in their little open mouths for as long as two years , which is a really long time in the life of a bird .
whereas the chickens are actually mature within a couple of months .
so childhood is the reason why the crows end up on the cover of science and the chickens end up in the soup pot .
there 's something about that long childhood that seems to be connected to knowledge and learning .
well what kind of explanation could we have for this ?
well some animals , like the chicken , seem to be beautifully suited to doing just one thing very well .
so they seem to be beautifully suited to pecking grain in one environment .
other creatures , like the crows , aren 't very good at doing anything in particular , but they 're extremely good at learning about laws of different environments .
and of course , we human beings are way out on the end of the distribution like the crows .
we have bigger brains relative to our bodies by far than any other animal .
we 're smarter , we 're more flexible , we can learn more , we survive in more different environments , we migrated to cover the world and even go to outer space .
and our babies and children are dependent on us for much longer than the babies of any other species .
my son is 23 .
and at least until they 're 23 , we 're still popping those worms into those little open mouths .
all right , why would we see this correlation ?
well an idea is that that strategy , that learning strategy , is an extremely powerful , great strategy for getting on in the world ,
but it has one big disadvantage .
and that one big disadvantage is that , until you actually do all that learning , you 're going to be helpless .
so you don 't want to have the mastodon charging at you and be saying to yourself , " a slingshot or maybe a spear might work . which would actually be better ? " you want to know all that before the mastodons actually show up .
and the way the evolutions seems to have solved that problem is with a kind of division of labor .
so the idea is that we have this early period when we 're completely protected .
we don 't have to do anything . all we have to do is learn .
and then as adults , we can take all those things that we learned when we were babies and children and actually put them to work to do things out there in the world .
so one way of thinking about it is that babies and young children are like the research and development division of the human species .
so they 're the protected blue sky guys who just have to go out and learn and have good ideas , and we 're production and marketing .
we have to take all those ideas that we learned when we were children and actually put them to use .
another way of thinking about it is instead of thinking of babies and children as being like defective grownups , we should think about them as being a different developmental stage of the same species -- kind of like caterpillars and butterflies -- except that they 're actually the brilliant butterflies who are flitting around the garden and exploring ,
and we 're the caterpillars who are inching along our narrow , grownup , adult path .
if this is true , if these babies are designed to learn -- and this evolutionary story would say children are for learning , that 's what they 're for -- we might expect that they would have really powerful learning mechanisms .
and in fact , the baby 's brain seems to be the most powerful learning computer on the planet .
but real computers are actually getting to be a lot better .
and there 's been a revolution in our understanding of machine learning recently .
and it all depends on the ideas of this guy , the reverend thomas bayes , who was a statistician and mathematician in the 18th century .
and essentially what bayes did was to provide a mathematical way using probability theory to characterize , describe , the way that scientists find out about the world .
so what scientists do is they have a hypothesis that they think might be likely to start with .
they go out and test it against the evidence .
the evidence makes them change that hypothesis .
then they test that new hypothesis and so on and so forth .
and what bayes showed was a mathematical way that you could do that .
and that mathematics is at the core of the best machine learning programs that we have now .
and some 10 years ago , i suggested that babies might be doing the same thing .
so if you want to know what 's going on underneath those beautiful brown eyes , i think it actually looks something like this .
this is reverend bayes 's notebook .
so i think those babies are actually making complicated calculations with conditional probabilities that they 're revising to figure out how the world works .
all right , now that might seem like an even taller order to actually demonstrate .
because after all , if you ask even grownups about statistics , they look extremely stupid .
how could it be that children are doing statistics ?
so to test this we used a machine that we have called the blicket detector . this is a box that lights up and plays music when you put some things on it and not others .
and using this very simple machine , my lab and others have done dozens of studies showing just how good babies are at learning about the world .
let me mention just one that we did with tumar kushner , my student .
if i showed you this detector , you would be likely to think to begin with that the way to make the detector go would be to put a block on top of the detector .
but actually , this detector works in a bit of a strange way .
because if you wave a block over the top of the detector , something you wouldn 't ever think of to begin with , the detector will actually activate two out of three times .
whereas , if you do the likely thing , put the block on the detector , it will only activate two out of six times .
so the unlikely hypothesis actually has stronger evidence .
it looks as if the waving is a more effective strategy than the other strategy .
so we did just this ; we gave four year-olds this pattern of evidence , and we just asked them to make it go .
and sure enough , the four year-olds used the evidence to wave the object on top of the detector .
now there are two things that are really interesting about this .
the first one is , again , remember , these are four year-olds .
they 're just learning how to count .
but unconsciously , they 're doing these quite complicated calculations that will give them a conditional probability measure .
and the other interesting thing is that they 're using that evidence to get to an idea , get to a hypothesis about the world , that seems very unlikely to begin with .
and in studies we 've just been doing in my lab , similar studies , we 've show that four year-olds are actually better at finding out an unlikely hypothesis than adults are when we give them exactly the same task .
so in these circumstances , the children are using statistics to find out about the world , but after all , scientists also do experiments , and we wanted to see if children are doing experiments .
when children do experiments we call it " getting into everything " or else " playing . "
and there 's been a bunch of interesting studies recently that have shown this playing around is really a kind of experimental research program .
here 's one from cristine legare 's lab .
what cristine did was use our blicket detectors .
and what she did was show children that yellow ones made it go and red ones didn 't , and then she showed them an anomaly .
and what you 'll see is that this little boy will go through five hypotheses in the space of two minutes .
boy : how about this ?
same as the other side .
alison gopnik : okay , so his first hypothesis has just been falsified .
boy : this one lighted up , and this one nothing .
ag : okay , he 's got his experimental notebook out .
boy : what 's making this light up .
i don 't know .
ag : every scientist will recognize that expression of despair .
boy : oh , it 's because this needs to be like this ,
and this needs to be like this .
ag : okay , hypothesis two .
boy : that 's why .
oh .
ag : now this is his next idea .
he told the experimenter to do this , to try putting it out onto the other location .
not working either .
boy : oh , because the light goes only to here ,
not here .
oh , the bottom of this box has electricity in here ,
but this doesn 't have electricity .
ag : okay , that 's a fourth hypothesis .
boy : it 's lighting up .
so when you put four .
so you put four on this one to make it light up and two on this one to make it light up .
ag : okay , there 's his fifth hypothesis .
now that is a particularly -- that is a particularly adorable and articulate little boy , but what cristine discovered is this is actually quite typical .
if you look at the way children play , when you ask them to explain something ,
what they really do is do a series of experiments .
this is actually pretty typical of four year-olds .
well , what 's it like to be this kind of creature ?
what 's it like to be one of these brilliant butterflies who can test five hypotheses in two minutes ?
well , if you go back to those psychologists and philosophers , a lot of them have said that babies and young children were barely conscious if they were conscious at all .
and i think just the opposite is true .
i think babies and children are actually more conscious than we are as adults .
now here 's what we know about how adult consciousness works .
and adults ' attention and consciousness look kind of like a spotlight .
so what happens for adults is we decide that something 's relevant or important , we should pay attention to it .
our consciousness of that thing that we 're attending to becomes extremely bright and vivid , and everything else sort of goes dark .
and we even know something about the way the brain does this .
so what happens when we pay attention is that the prefrontal cortex , the sort of executive part of our brains , sends a signal that makes a little part of our brain much more flexible ,
more plastic , better at learning ,
and shuts down activity in all the rest of our brains .
so we have a very focused , purpose-driven kind of attention .
if we look at babies and young children , we see something very different .
i think babies and young children seem to have more of a lantern of consciousness than a spotlight of consciousness .
so babies and young children are very bad at narrowing down to just one thing .
but they 're very good at taking in lots of information from lots of different sources at once .
and if you actually look in their brains , you see that they 're flooded with these neurotransmitters that are really good at inducing learning and plasticity , and the inhibitory parts haven 't come on yet .
so when we say that babies and young children are bad at paying attention , what we really mean is that they 're bad at not paying attention .
so they 're bad at getting rid of all the interesting things that could tell them something and just looking at the thing that 's important .
that 's the kind of attention , the kind of consciousness , that we might expect from those butterflies who are designed to learn .
well if we want to think about a way of getting a taste of that kind of baby consciousness as adults , i think the best thing is think about cases where we 're put in a new situation that we 've never been in before -- when we fall in love with someone new , or when we 're in a new city for the first time .
and what happens then is not that our consciousness contracts , it expands , so that those three days in paris seem to be more full of consciousness and experience than all the months of being a walking , talking , faculty meeting-attending zombie back home .
and by the way , that coffee , that wonderful coffee you 've been drinking downstairs , actually mimics the effect of those baby neurotransmitters .
so what 's it like to be a baby ?
it 's like being in love in paris for the first time after you 've had three double-espressos .
that 's a fantastic way to be , but it does tend to leave you waking up crying at three o 'clock in the morning .
now it 's good to be a grownup .
i don 't want to say too much about how wonderful babies are .
it 's good to be a grownup .
we can do things like tie our shoelaces and cross the street by ourselves .
and it makes sense that we put a lot of effort into making babies think like adults do .
but if what we want is to be like those butterflies , to have open-mindedness , open learning , imagination , creativity , innovation , maybe at least some of the time we should be getting the adults to start thinking more like children .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / torsten _ reil _ studies _ biology _ to _ make _ animation.html
torsten reil talks about how the study of biology can help make natural-looking animated people -- by building a human from the inside out , with bones , muscles and a nervous system . he spoke at ted in 2003 ; see his work now in gta4 .
animals , biomechanics , demo , design , entertainment , gaming , technology
300
torsten reil builds better animations
i 'm going to talk about a technology that we 're developing at oxford now , that we think is going to change the way that computer games and hollywood movies are being made .
that technology is simulating humans .
it 's simulated humans with a simulated body and a simulated nervous system to control that body .
now , before i talk more about that technology , let 's have a quick look at what human characters look like at the moment in computer games .
this is a clip from a game called " grand theft auto 3 . "
we already saw that briefly yesterday .
and what you can see is -- it is actually a very good game . it 's one of the most successful games of all time .
but what you 'll see is that all the animations in this game are very repetitive .
they pretty much look the same .
i 've made him run into a wall here , over and over again . and you can see he looks always the same .
the reason for that is that these characters are actually not real characters .
they are a graphical visualization of a character .
to produce these animations , an animator at a studio has to anticipate what 's going to happen in the actual game , and then has to animate that particular sequence .
so , he or she sits down , animates it , and tries to anticipate what 's going to happen , and then these particular animations are just played back at appropriate times in the computer game .
now , the result of that is that you can 't have real interactivity .
all you have is animations that are played back at more or less the appropriate times .
it also means that games aren 't really going to be as surprising as they could be , because you only get out of it , at least in terms of the character , what you actually put into it .
there 's no real emergence there .
and thirdly , as i said , most of the animations are very repetitive because of that .
now , the only way to get around that is to actually simulate the human body and to simulate that bit of the nervous system of the brain that controls that body .
and maybe , if i could have you for a quick demonstration to show what the difference is -- because , i mean , it 's very , very trivial .
if i push chris a bit , like this , for example , he 'll react to it .
if i push him from a different angle , he 'll react to it differently , and that 's because he has a physical body , and because he has the motor skills to control that body .
it 's a very trivial thing .
it 's not something you get in computer games at the moment , at all .
thank you very much . chris anderson : that 's it ?
torsten reil : that 's it , yes .
so , that 's what we 're trying to simulate -- not chris specifically , i should say , but humans in general .
now , we started working on this a while ago at oxford university , and we tried to start very simply .
what we tried to do was teach a stick figure how to walk .
that stick figure is physically stimulated . you can see it here on the screen .
so , it 's subject to gravity , has joints , etc .
if you just run the simulation , it will just collapse , like this .
the tricky bit is now to put an ai controller in it that actually makes it work .
and for that , we use the neural network , which we based on that part of the nervous system that we have in our spine that controls walking in humans .
it 's called the central pattern generator .
so , we simulated that as well , and then the really tricky bit is to teach that network how to walk .
for that we used artificial evolution -- genetic algorithms .
we heard about those already yesterday , and i suppose that most of you are familiar with that already .
but , just briefly , the concept is that you create a large number of different individuals -- neural networks , in this case -- all of which are random at the beginning .
you hook these up -- in this case , to the virtual muscles of that two-legged creature here -- and hope that it does something interesting .
at the beginning , they 're all going to be very boring .
most of them won 't move at all , but some of them might make a tiny step .
those are then selected by the algorithm , reproduced with mutation and recombinations to introduce sex as well .
and you repeat that process over and over again , until you have something that walks -- in this case , in a straight line , like this .
so that was the idea behind this .
when we started this , i set up the simulation one evening .
it took about three to four hours to run the simulation .
i got up the next morning , went to the computer and looked at the results , and was hoping for something that walked in a straight line , like i 've just demonstrated , and this is what i got instead .
so , it was back to the drawing board for us .
we did get it to work eventually , after tweaking a bit here and there .
and this is an example of a successful evolutionary run .
so , what you 'll see in a moment is a very simple biped that 's learning how to walk using artificial evolution .
at the beginning , it can 't walk at all , but it will get better and better over time .
so , this is the one that can 't walk at all .
now , after five generations of applying evolutionary process , the genetic algorithm is getting a tiny bit better .
generation 10 and it 'll take a few steps more --
still not quite there .
but now , after generation 20 , it actually walks in a straight line without falling over .
that was the real breakthrough for us .
it was , academically , quite a challenging project , and once we had reached that stage , we were quite confident that we could try and do other things as well with this approach -- actually simulating the body and simulating that part of the nervous system that controls it .
now , at this stage , it also became clear that this could be very exciting for things like computer games or online worlds .
what you see here is the character standing there , and there 's an obstacle that we put in its way .
and what you see is , it 's going to fall over the obstacle .
now , the interesting bit is , if i move the obstacle a tiny bit to the right , which is what i 'm doing now , here , it will fall over it in a completely different way .
and again , if you move the obstacle a tiny bit , it 'll again fall differently .
now , what you see , by the way , at the top there , are some of the neural activations being fed into the virtual muscles .
okay . that 's the video . thanks .
now , this might look kind of trivial , but it 's actually very important because this is not something you get at the moment in any interactive or any virtual worlds .
now , at this stage , we decided to start a company and move this further , because obviously this was just a very simple , blocky biped .
what we really wanted was a full human body . so we started the company .
we hired a team of physicists , software engineers and biologists to work on this , and the first thing we had to work on was to create the human body , basically .
it 's got to be relatively fast , so you can run it on a normal machine , but it 's got to be accurate enough , so it looks good enough , basically .
so we put quite a bit of biomechanical knowledge into this thing , and tried to make it as realistic as possible .
what you see here on the screen right now is a very simple visualization of that body .
i should add that it 's very simple to add things like hair , clothes , etc . ,
but what we 've done here is use a very simple visualization , so you can concentrate on the movement .
now , what i 'm going to do right now , in a moment , is just push this character a tiny bit and we 'll see what happens .
nothing really interesting , basically .
it falls over , but it falls over like a rag doll , basically .
the reason for that is that there 's no intelligence in it .
it becomes interesting when you put artificial intelligence into it .
so , this character now has motor skills in the upper body --
nothing in the legs yet , in this particular one .
but what it will do -- i 'm going to push it again .
it will realize autonomously that it 's being pushed .
it 's going to stick out its hands .
it 's going to turn around into the fall , and try and catch the fall .
so that 's what you see here .
now , it gets really interesting if you then add the ai for the lower part of the body as well .
so here , we 've got the same character .
i 'm going to push it a bit harder now , harder than i just pushed chris .
but what you 'll see is -- it 's going to receive a push now from the left .
what you see is it takes steps backwards , it tries to counter-balance , it tries to look at the place where it thinks it 's going to land .
i 'll show you this again .
and then , finally hits the floor .
now , this becomes really exciting when you push that character in different directions , again , just as i 've done .
that 's something that you cannot do right now .
at the moment , you only have empty computer graphics in games .
what this is now is a real simulation . that 's what i want to show you now .
so , here 's the same character with the same behavior i 've just shown you , but now i 'm just going to push it from different directions .
first , starting with a push from the right .
this is all slow motion , by the way , so we can see what 's going on .
now , the angle will have changed a tiny bit , so you can see that the reaction is different .
again , a push , now this time from the front .
and you see it falls differently .
and now from the left --
and it falls differently .
that was really exciting for us to see that .
that was the first time we 've seen that .
this is the first time the public sees this as well , because we have been in stealth mode .
i haven 't shown this to anybody yet .
now , just a fun thing :
what happens if you put that character -- this is now a wooden version of it , but it 's got the same ai in it -- but if you put that character on a slippery surface , like ice .
we just did that for a laugh , just to see what happens .
and this is what happens .
it 's nothing we had to do about this .
we just took this character that i just talked about , put it on a slippery surface , and this is what you get out of it .
and that 's a really fascinating thing about this approach .
now , when we went to film studios and games developers and showed them that technology , we got a very good response .
and what they said was , the first thing they need immediately is virtual stuntmen .
because stunts are obviously very dangerous , they 're very expensive , and there are a lot of stunt scenes that you cannot do , obviously , because you can 't really allow the stuntman to be seriously hurt .
so , they wanted to have a digital version of a stuntman and that 's what we 've been working on for the past few months .
and that 's our first product that we 're going to release in a couple of weeks .
so , here are just a few very simple scenes of the guy just being kicked .
that 's what people want . that 's what we 're giving them .
and we started boycotting anything that was french .
well , my name of my company , joie de vivre --
so i started getting these letters from places like alabama and orange county saying to me that they were going to boycott my company because they thought we were a french company .
and i 'd write them back , and i 'd say , " what a minute . we 're not french .
we 're an american company . we 're based in san francisco . "
and i 'd get a terse response : " oh , that 's worse . "
so one particular day when i was feeling a little depressed and not a lot of joie de vivre , i ended up in the local bookstore around the corner from our offices .
and i initially ended up in the business section of the bookstore looking for a business solution .
but given my befuddled state of mind , i ended up in the self-help section very quickly .
that 's where i got reacquainted with abraham maslow 's " hierarchy of needs . "
i took one psychology class in college , and i learned about this guy , abraham maslow , as many of us are familiar with his hierarchy of needs .
but as i sat there for four hours , the full afternoon , reading maslow , i recognized something that is true of most leaders .
one of the simplest facts in business is something that we often neglect ,
and that is that we 're all human .
each of us , no matter what our role is in business , has some hierarchy of needs in the workplace .
so as i started reading more maslow , what i started to realize is that maslow , later in his life , wanted to take this hierarchy for the individual and apply it to the collective , to organizations and specifically to business .
but unfortunately , he died prematurely in 1970 ,
and so he wasn 't really able to live that dream completely .
so i realized in that dotcom crash that my role in life was to channel abe maslow .
and that 's what i did a few years ago when i took that five-level hierarchy of needs pyramid and turned it into what i call the transformation pyramid , which is survival , success and transformation .
it 's not just fundamental in business , it 's fundamental in life .
and we started asking ourselves the questions about how we were actually addressing the higher needs , these transformational needs for our key employees in the company .
these three levels of the hierarchy needs relate to the five levels of maslow 's hierarchy of needs .
but as we started asking ourselves about how we were addressing the higher needs of our employees and our customers , i realized we had no metrics .
we had nothing that actually could tell us whether we were actually getting it right .
so we started asking ourselves : what kind of less obvious metrics could we use to actually evaluate our employees ' sense of meaning , or our customers ' sense of emotional connection with us ?
for example , we actually started asking our employees , do they understand the mission of our company , and do they feel like they believe in it , can they actually influence it , and do they feel that their work actually has an impact on it ?
we started asking our customers , did they feel an emotional connection with us , in one of seven different kinds of ways .
miraculously , as we asked these questions and started giving attention higher up the pyramid , what we found is we created more loyalty .
our customer loyalty skyrocketed .
our employee turnover dropped to one-third of the industry average ,
and during that five year dotcom bust , we tripled in size .
as i went out and started spending time with other leaders out there and asking them how they were getting through that time , what they told me over and over again was that they just manage what they can measure .
what we can measure is that tangible stuff at the bottom of the pyramid .
they didn 't even see the intangible stuff higher up the pyramid .
so i started asking myself the question : how can we get leaders to start valuing the intangible ?
if we 're taught as leaders to just manage what we can measure , and all we can measure is the tangible in life , we 're missing a whole lot of things at the top of the pyramid .
so i went out and studied a bunch of things ,
and i found a survey that showed that 94 percent of business leaders worldwide believe that the intangibles are important in their business , things like intellectual property , their corporate culture , their brand loyalty ,
and yet , only five percent of those same leaders actually had a means of measuring the intangibles in their business .
so as leaders , we understand that intangibles are important , but we don 't have a clue how to measure them .
so here 's another einstein quote : " not everything that can be counted counts , and not everything that counts can be counted . "
i hate to argue with einstein , but if that which is most valuable in our life and our business actually can 't be counted or valued , aren 't we going to spend our lives just mired in measuring the mundane ?
it was that sort of heady question about what counts that led me to take my ceo hat off for a week and fly off to the himalayan peaks .
i flew off to a place that 's been shrouded in mystery for centuries , a place some folks call shangri-la .
it 's actually moved from the survival base of the pyramid to becoming a transformational role model for the world .
i went to bhutan .
the teenage king of bhutan was also a curious man , but this was back in 1972 , when he ascended to the throne two days after his father passed away .
at age 17 , he started asking the kinds of questions that you 'd expect of someone with a beginner 's mind .
on a trip through india , early in his reign as king , he was asked by an indian journalist about the bhutanese gdp , the size of the bhutanese gdp .
the king responded in a fashion that actually has transformed us four decades later .
he said the following , he said : " why are we so obsessed and focused with gross domestic product ?
why don 't we care more about gross national happiness ? "
now , in essence , the king was asking us to consider an alternative definition of success , what has come to be known as gnh , or gross national happiness .
most world leaders didn 't take notice , and those that did thought this was just " buddhist economics . "
but the king was serious .
this was a notable moment , because this was the first time a world leader in almost 200 years had suggested that intangible of happiness -- that leader 200 years ago , thomas jefferson with the declaration of independence -- 200 years later , this king was suggesting that intangible of happiness is something that we should measure , and it 's something we should actually value as government officials .
for the next three dozen years as king , this king actually started measuring and managing around happiness in bhutan --
including , just recently , taking his country from being an absolute monarchy to a constitutional monarchy with no bloodshed , no coup .
bhutan , for those of you who don 't know it , is the newest democracy in the world , just two years ago .
so as i spent time with leaders in the gnh movement , i got to really understand what they 're doing .
and i got to spend some time with the prime minister .
over dinner , i asked him an impertinent question .
i asked him , " how can you create and measure something which evaporates -- in other words , happiness ? "
and he 's a very wise man , and he said , " listen , bhutan 's goal is not to create happiness .
we create the conditions for happiness to occur .
in other words , we create a habitat of happiness . "
wow , that 's interesting .
he said that they have a science behind that art ,
and they 've actually created four essential pillars , nine key indicators and 72 different metrics that help them to measure their gnh .
one of those key indicators is : how do the bhutanese feel about how they spend their time each day ?
it 's a good question . how do you feel about how you spend your time each day ?
time is one of the scarcest resources in the modern world .
and yet , of course , that little intangible piece of data doesn 't factor into our gdp calculations .
as i spent my week up in the himalayas , i started to imagine what i call an emotional equation .
and it focuses on something i read long ago from a guy named rabbi hyman schachtel .
how many know him ? anybody ?
1954 , he wrote a book called " the real enjoyment of living , "
and he suggested that happiness is not about having what you want ;
instead , it 's about wanting what you have .
or in other words , i think the bhutanese believe happiness equals wanting what you have -- imagine gratitude -- divided by having what you want -- gratification .
the bhutanese aren 't on some aspirational treadmill , constantly focused on what they don 't have .
their religion , their isolation , their deep respect for their culture and now the principles of their gnh movement all have fostered a sense of gratitude about what they do have .
how many of us here , as tedsters in the audience , spend more of our time in the bottom half of this equation , in the denominator ?
we are a bottom-heavy culture in more ways than one .
the reality is , in western countries , quite often we do focus on the pursuit of happiness as if happiness is something that we have to go out -- an object that we 're supposed to get , or maybe many objects .
actually , in fact , if you look in the dictionary , many dictionaries define pursuit as to " chase with hostility . "
do we pursue happiness with hostility ?
good question . but back to bhutan .
bhutan 's bordered on its north and south by 38 percent of the world 's population .
could this little country , like a startup in a mature industry , be the spark plug that influences a 21st century of middle-class in china and india ?
bhutan 's created the ultimate export , a new global currency of well-being ,
and there are 40 countries around the world today that are studying their own gnh .
you may have heard , this last fall nicolas sarkozy in france announcing the results of an 18-month study by two nobel economists , focusing on happiness and wellness in france .
sarkozy suggested that world leaders should stop myopically focusing on gdp and consider a new index , what some french are calling a " joie de vivre index . "
i like it .
co-branding opportunities .
just three days ago , three days ago here at ted , we had a simulcast of david cameron , potentially the next prime minister of the uk , quoting one of my favorite speeches of all-time , robert kennedy 's poetic speech from 1968 when he suggested that we 're myopically focused on the wrong thing and that gdp is a misplaced metric .
so it suggests that the momentum is shifting .
i 've taken that robert kennedy quote , and i 've turned it into a new balance sheet for just a moment here .
this is a collection of things that robert kennedy said in that quote .
gdp counts everything from air pollution to the destruction of our redwoods .
but it doesn 't count the health of our children or the integrity of our public officials .
as you look at these two columns here , doesn 't it make you feel like it 's time for us to start figuring out a new way to count , a new way to imagine what 's important to us in life ?
certainly robert kennedy suggested at the end of the speech exactly that .
he said gdp " measures everything in short , except that which makes life worthwhile . "
wow .
so how do we do that ?
let me say one thing we can just start doing ten years from now , at least in this country .
why in the heck in america are we doing a census in 2010 ?
we 're spending 10 billion dollars on the census .
we 're asking 10 simple questions -- it is simplicity .
but all of those questions are tangible .
they 're about demographics .
they 're about where you live , how many people you live with , and whether you own your home or not .
that 's about it .
we 're not asking meaningful metrics .
we 're not asking important questions .
we 're not asking anything that 's intangible .
abe maslow said long ago something you 've heard before , but you didn 't realize it was him .
he said , " if the only tool you have is a hammer , everything starts to look like a nail . "
we 've been fooled by our tool .
excuse that expression .
we 've been fooled by our tool .
gdp has been our hammer .
and our nail has been a 19th- and 20th-century industrial-era model of success .
and yet , 64 percent of the world 's gdp today is in that intangible industry we call service , the service industry , the industry i 'm in .
and only 36 percent is in the tangible industries of manufacturing and agriculture .
so maybe it 's time that we get a bigger toolbox , right ?
maybe it 's time we get a toolbox that doesn 't just count what 's easily counted , the tangible in life , but actually counts what we most value , the things that are intangible .
i guess i 'm sort of a curious ceo .
i was also a curious economics major as an undergrad .
i learned that economists measure everything in tangible units of production and consumption as if each of those tangible units is exactly the same .
they aren 't the same .
in fact , as leaders , what we need to learn is that we can influence the quality of that unit of production by creating the conditions for our employees to live their calling .
in vivian 's case , her unit of production isn 't the tangible hours she works ,
it 's the intangible difference she makes during that one hour of work .
this is dave arringdale who 's actually been a longtime guest at vivian 's motel .
he stayed there a hundred times in the last 20 years ,
and he 's loyal to the property because of the relationship that vivian and her fellow employees have created with him .
they 've created a habitat of happiness for dave .
he tells me that he can always count on vivian and the staff there to make him feel at home . why is it that business leaders and investors quite often don 't see the connection between creating the intangible of employee happiness with creating the tangible of financial profits in their business ?
we don 't have to choose between inspired employees and sizable profits ,
we can have both .
in fact , inspired employees quite often help make sizable profits , right ?
so what the world needs now , in my opinion , is business leaders and political leaders who know what to count .
we count numbers .
we count on people .
what really counts is when we actually use our numbers to truly take into account our people .
i learned that from a maid in a motel and a king of a country .
what can you start counting today ?
what one thing can you start counting today that actually would be meaningful in your life , whether it 's your work life or your business life ?
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / beau _ lotto _ amy _ o _ toole _ science _ is _ for _ everyone _ kids _ included.html
what do science and play have in common ? neuroscientist beau lotto thinks all people should participate in science and , through the process of discovery , change perceptions . he 's seconded by 12-year-old amy o 'toole , who , along with 25 of her classmates , published the first peer-reviewed article by schoolchildren , about the blackawton bees project . it starts : " once upon a time ... "
biology , children , collaboration , insects , science , youth
1587
beau lotto + amy o 'toole : science is for everyone , kids included
beau lotto : so , this game is very simple .
all you have to do is read what you see . right ?
so , i 'm going to count to you , so we don 't all do it together .
okay , one , two , three . audience : can you read this ?
bl : amazing . what about this one ? one , two , three . audience : you are not reading this .
bl : all right . one , two , three .
if you were portuguese , right ? how about this one ? one , two , three .
audience : what are you reading ?
bl : what are you reading ? there are no words there .
i said , read what you 're seeing . right ?
it literally says , " wat ar ou rea in ? " right ?
that 's what you should have said . right ? why is this ?
it 's because perception is grounded in our experience .
right ? the brain takes meaningless information and makes meaning out of it , which means we never see what 's there , we never see information , we only ever see what was useful to see in the past .
all right ? which means , when it comes to perception , we 're all like this frog .
right ? it 's getting information . it 's generating behavior that 's useful .
man : ow ! ow !
bl : and sometimes , when things don 't go our way , we get a little bit annoyed , right ?
but we 're talking about perception here , right ?
and perception underpins everything we think , we know , we believe , our hopes , our dreams , the clothes we wear , falling in love , everything begins with perception .
now if perception is grounded in our history , it means we 're only ever responding according to what we 've done before .
but actually , it 's a tremendous problem , because how can we ever see differently ?
now , i want to tell you a story about seeing differently , and all new perceptions begin in the same way .
they begin with a question .
the problem with questions is they create uncertainty .
now , uncertainty is a very bad thing . it 's evolutionarily a bad thing . if you 're not sure that 's a predator , it 's too late .
okay ?
even seasickness is a consequence of uncertainty . right ? if you go down below on a boat , your inner ears are you telling you you 're moving . your eyes , because it 's moving in register with the boat , say i 'm standing still .
your brain cannot deal with the uncertainty of that information , and it gets ill .
the question " why ? " is one of the most dangerous things you can do , because it takes you into uncertainty .
and yet , the irony is , the only way we can ever do anything new is to step into that space .
so how can we ever do anything new ? well fortunately , evolution has given us an answer , right ?
and it enables us to address even the most difficult they 're the ones that question the things we think to be true already . right ?
it 's easy to ask questions about how did life begin , or what extends beyond the universe , but to question what you think to be true already is really stepping into that space .
so what is evolution 's answer to the problem of uncertainty ?
it 's play .
now play is not simply a process . experts in play will tell you that actually it 's a way of being .
play is one of the only human endeavors where uncertainty is actually celebrated . uncertainty is what makes play fun .
right ? it 's adaptable to change . right ? it opens possibility , and it 's cooperative . it 's actually how we do our social bonding , and it 's intrinsically motivated . what that means is that we play to play . play is its own reward .
now if you look at these five ways of being , these are the exact same ways of being you need in order to be a good scientist .
science is not defined by the method section of a paper .
it 's actually a way of being , which is here , and this is true for anything that is creative .
so if you add rules to play , you have a game .
that 's actually what an experiment is .
so armed with these two ideas , that science is a way of being and experiments are play , we asked , can anyone become a scientist ?
and who better to ask than 25 eight- to 10-year-old children ?
because they 're experts in play . so i took my bee arena down to a small school in devon , and the aim of this was to not just get the kids to see science differently , but , through the process of science , to see themselves differently . right ?
the first step was to ask a question .
now , i should say that we didn 't get funding for this study because the scientists said small children couldn 't make a useful contribution to science , and the teachers said kids couldn 't do it .
so we did it anyway . right ? of course .
so , here are some of the questions . i put them in small print so you wouldn 't bother reading it . point is that five of the questions that the kids came up with were actually the basis of science publication the last five to 15 years . right ?
so they were asking questions that were significant to expert scientists .
now here , i want to share the stage with someone quite special . right ?
she was one of the young people who was involved in this study , and she 's now one of the youngest published scientists in the world . right ? she will now , once she comes onto stage , will be the youngest person to ever speak at ted . right ?
now , science and asking questions is about courage .
now she is the personification of courage , because she 's going to stand up here and talk to you all .
so amy , would you please come up ?
so amy 's going to help me tell the story of what we call the blackawton bees project , and first she 's going to tell you the question that they came up with . so go ahead , amy .
amy o 'toole : thank you , beau . we thought that it was easy to see the link between humans and apes in the way that we think , because we look alike .
but we wondered if there 's a possible link with other animals . it 'd be amazing if humans and bees thought similar , since they seem so different from us .
so we asked if humans and bees might solve complex problems in the same way .
really , we wanted to know if bees can also adapt themselves to new situations using previously learned rules and conditions . so what if bees can think like us ?
well , it 'd be amazing , since we 're talking about an insect with only one million brain cells .
but it actually makes a lot of sense they should , because bees , like us , can recognize a good flower regardless of the time of day , the light , the weather , or from any angle they approach it from .
bl : so the next step was to design an experiment , which is a game . so the kids went off and they designed this experiment , and so -- well , game -- and so , amy , can you tell us what the game was , and the puzzle that you set the bees ?
ao : the puzzle we came up with was an if-then rule .
we asked the bees to learn not just to go to a certain color , but to a certain color flower only when it 's in a certain pattern .
they were only rewarded if they went to the yellow flowers if the yellow flowers were surrounded by the blue , or if the blue flowers were surrounded by the yellow .
now there 's a number of different rules the bees can learn to solve this puzzle . the interesting question is , which ?
what was really exciting about this project was we , and beau , had no idea whether it would work .
it was completely new , and no one had done it before , including adults .
bl : including the teachers , and that was really hard for the teachers .
it 's easy for a scientist to go in and not have a clue what he 's doing , because that 's what we do in the lab , but for a teacher not to know what 's going to happen at the end of the day -- so much of the credit goes to dave strudwick , who was the collaborator on this project . okay ?
so i 'm not going to go through the whole details of the study because actually you can read about it , but the next step is observation . so here are some of the students doing the observations . they 're recording the data of where the bees fly .
dave strudwick : so what we 're going to do - student : 5c .
dave strudwick : is she still going up here ? student : yeah .
dave strudwick : so you keep track of each . student : henry , can you help me here ?
bl : " can you help me , henry ? " what good scientist says that , right ?
student : there 's two up there .
and three in here .
bl : right ? so we 've got our observations . we 've got our data .
they do the simple mathematics , averaging , etc . , etc .
and now we want to share . that 's the next step .
so we 're going to write this up and try to submit this
for publication . right ? so we have to write it up .
so we go , of course , to the pub . all right ?
the one on the left is mine , okay ?
now , i tell them , a paper has four different sections : an introduction , a methods , a results , a discussion .
the introduction says , what 's the question and why ?
methods , what did you do ? results , what was the observation ?
and the discussion is , who cares ? right ?
that 's a science paper , basically .
so the kids give me the words , right ? i put it into a narrative , which means that this paper is written in kidspeak .
it 's not written by me . it 's written by amy and the other students in the class . as a consequence , this science paper begins , " once upon a time ... " the results section , it says : " training phase , the puzzle ... duh duh duuuuuhhh . " right ?
and the methods , it says , " then we put the bees into the fridge , " smiley face . right ?
this is a science paper . we 're going to try to get it published .
so here 's the title page . we have a number of authors there .
all the ones in bold are eight to 10 years old .
the first author is blackawton primary school , because if it were ever referenced , it would be " blackawton et al , " and not one individual . so we submit it to a public access journal , and it says this . it said many things , but it said this .
" i 'm afraid the paper fails our initial quality control checks in several different ways . " in other words , it starts off " once upon a time , " the figures are in crayon , etc .
so we said , we 'll get it reviewed . so i sent it to dale purves , who is at the national academy of science , one of the leading neuroscientists in the world , and he says , " this is the most original science paper i have ever read " - - " and it certainly deserves wide exposure . " larry maloney , expert in vision , says , " the paper is magnificent .
the work would be publishable if done by adults . " so what did we do ? we send it back to the editor .
they say no .
so we asked larry and natalie hempel to write a commentary situating the findings for scientists , right , putting in the references , and we submit it to biology letters .
and there , it was reviewed by five independent referees , and it was published . okay ?
it took four months to do the science , two years to get it published .
typical science , actually , right ? so this makes amy and her friends the youngest published scientists in the world .
what was the feedback like ?
well , it was published two days before christmas , downloaded 30,000 times in the first day , right ?
it was the editors ' choice in science , which is a top science magazine .
it 's forever freely accessible by biology letters .
it 's the only paper that will ever be freely accessible by this journal .
last year , it was the second-most downloaded paper by biology letters , and the feedback from not just scientists and teachers but the public as well .
and i 'll just read one .
" i have read ' blackawton bees ' recently . i don 't have words to explain exactly how i am feeling right now .
what you guys have done is real , true and amazing .
curiosity , interest , innocence and zeal are the most basic and most important things to do science .
who else can have these qualities more than children ?
please congratulate your children 's team from my side . " so i 'd like to conclude with a physical metaphor .
can i do it on you ?
oh yeah , yeah , yeah , come on . yeah yeah . okay .
now , science is about taking risks , so this is an incredible risk , right ?
for me , not for him . right ? because we 've only done this once before .
and you like technology , right ?
shimon schocken : right , but i like myself .
bl : this is the epitome of technology . right . okay .
now ...
okay .
now , we 're going to do a little demonstration , right ?
you have to close your eyes , and you have to point where you hear me clapping . all right ?
okay , how about if everyone over there shouts . one , two , three ?
audience : brilliant . now , open your eyes . we 'll do it one more time .
everyone over there shout .
where 's the sound coming from ?
thank you very much .
what 's the point ? the point is what science does for us .
right ? we normally walk through life responding , but if we ever want to do anything different , we have to step into uncertainty . when he opened his eyes , he was able to see the world in a new way .
that 's what science offers us . it offers the possibility to step on uncertainty through the process of play , right ?
now , true science education i think should be about giving people a voice and enabling to express that voice , so i 've asked amy to be the last voice in this short story .
so , amy ?
ao : this project was really exciting for me , because it brought the process of discovery to life , and it showed me that anyone , and i mean anyone , has the potential to discover something new , and that a small question can lead into a big discovery .
changing the way a person thinks about something can be easy or hard . it all depends on the way the person feels about change .
but changing the way i thought about science was surprisingly easy . once we played the games and then started to think about the puzzle , i then realized that science isn 't just a boring subject , and that anyone can discover something new .
you just need an opportunity . my opportunity came in the form of beau , and the blackawton bee project .
thank you . bl : thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / van _ jones _ the _ economic _ injustice _ of _ plastic.html
van jones lays out a case against plastic pollution from the perspective of social justice . because plastic trash , he shows us , hits poor people and poor countries " first and worst , " with consequences we all share no matter where we live and what we earn . at tedxgpgp , he offers a few powerful ideas to help us reclaim our throwaway planet .
business , communication , global issues , green , plastic , poverty , science , tedx
1056
van jones : the economic injustice of plastic
i am honored to be here , and i 'm honored to talk about this topic , which i think is of grave importance .
we 've been talking a lot about the horrific impacts of plastic on the planet and on other species , but plastic hurts people too , especially poor people .
and both in the production of plastic , the use of plastic and the disposal of plastic , the people who have the bull 's-eye on their foreheads are poor people .
people got very upset when the bp oil spill happened for very good reason .
people thought about , " oh , my god .
this is terrible , this oil -- it 's in the water .
it 's going to destroy the living systems there .
people are going to be hurt .
this is a terrible thing , that the oil is going to hurt the people in the gulf . "
what people don 't think about is : what if the oil had made it safely to shore ?
what if the oil actually got where it was trying to go ?
not only would it have been burned in engines and added to global warming , but there 's a place called " cancer alley , " and the reason it 's called " cancer alley " is because the petrochemical industry takes that oil and turns it into plastic and , in the process , kills people .
it shortens the lives of the people who live there in the gulf .
so oil and petrochemicals are not just a problem where there 's a spill ; they 're a problem where there 's not .
and what we don 't often appreciate is the price that poor people pay for us to have these disposable products .
the other thing that we don 't often appreciate is it 's not just at the point of production that poor people suffer .
poor people also suffer at the point of use .
those of us who earn a certain income level , we have something called choice .
the reason why you want to work hard and have a job and not be poor and broke is so you can have choices , economic choices .
we actually get a chance to choose not to use products that have dangerous , poisonous plastic in them .
other people who are poor don 't have those choices .
so low-income people often are the ones who are buying the products that have those dangerous chemicals in them that their children are using .
those are the people who wind up actually ingesting a disproportionate amount of this poisonous plastic and using it .
and people say , " well , they should just buy a different product . "
well , the problem with being poor is you don 't have those choices .
you often have to buy the cheapest products .
the cheapest products are often the most dangerous .
and if that weren 't bad enough , if it wasn 't just the production of plastic that 's giving people cancer in places like " cancer alley " and shortening lives and hurting poor kids at the point of use , at the point of disposal , once again , it 's poor people who bear the burden .
often , we think we 're doing a good thing .
you 're in your office , and you 're drinking your bottled water , or whatever it is , and you think to yourself , " hey , i 'm going to throw this away .
no , i 'm going to be virtuous .
i 'm going to put it in the blue bin . "
you think , " i put mine in the blue bin , "
and then you look at your colleague and say , " why , you cretin .
you put yours in the white bin . "
and we use that as a moral tickle .
we feel so good about ourselves .
maybe i 'll feel good myself .
not you , but i feel this way .
and so we kind of have this kind of moral feel-good moment .
but if we were to be able to follow that little bottle on its journey , we would be shocked to discover that , all too often , that bottle is going to be put on a boat ,
it 's going to go all the way across the ocean at some expense ,
and it 's going to wind up in a developing country -- often china .
i think in our minds we imagine somebody 's going to take the little bottle , say , " oh , little bottle . we 're so happy to see you , little bottle . "
" you 've served so well . "
he 's given a little bottle massage , a little bottle medal .
and say , " what would you like to do next ? "
the little bottle says , " i just don 't know . "
but that 's not actually what happens .
that bottle winds up getting burned .
recycling of plastic in many developing countries means the incineration of the plastic , the burning of the plastic , which releases incredible toxic chemicals and , once again , kills people .
and so poor people who are making these products in petrochemical centers like " cancer alley , " poor people who are consuming these products disproportionately , and then poor people , who even at the tail end of the recycling are having their lives shortened , are all being harmed greatly by this addiction that we have to disposability .
now you think to yourself -- because i know how you are -- you say , " that sure is terrible for those poor people .
it 's just awful , those poor people .
i hope someone does something to help them . "
but what we don 't understand is -- is , here we are in los angeles .
we worked very hard to get the smog reduction happening here in los angeles .
but guess what ?
because they 're doing so much dirty production in asia now , because the environmental laws don 't protect the people in asia now , almost all of the clean air gains and the toxic air gains that we 've achieved here in california have been wiped out by dirty air coming over from asia .
so , we all are being hit . we all are being impacted .
it 's just the poor people get hit first and worst .
but the dirty production , the burning of toxins , the lack of environmental standards in asia is actually creating so much dirty air pollution it 's coming across the ocean and has erased our gains here in california .
we 're back where we were in the 1970s .
and so we 're on one planet , and we have to be able to get to the root of these problems .
well the root of this problem , in my view , is the idea of disposability itself .
you see , if you understand the link between what we 're doing to poison and pollute the planet and what we 're doing to poor people , you arrive at a very troubling , but also very helpful , insight : in order to trash the planet , you have to trash people .
but if you create a world where you don 't trash people , you can 't trash the planet .
so now we are at a moment where the coming together of social justice as an idea and ecology as an idea , we finally can now see that they are really , at the end of the day , one idea .
and it 's the idea that we don 't have disposable anything .
we don 't have disposable resources .
we don 't have disposable species .
and we don 't have disposable people either .
we don 't have a throwaway planet , and we don 't have throwaway children -- it 's all precious .
and as we all begin to come back to that basic understanding , new opportunities for action begin to emerge .
biomimicry , which is something that is an emerging science , winds up being a very important social justice idea .
people who are just learning about this stuff , biomimicry means respecting the wisdom of all species .
democracy , by the way , means respecting the wisdom of all people -- and we 'll get to that .
but biomimicry means respecting the wisdom of all species .
it turns out we 're a pretty clever species .
this big cortex , or whatever , we 're pretty proud of ourselves .
but if we want to make something hard , we come up , " i know , i 'm going to make a hard substance .
i know , i 'm going to get vacuums and furnaces and drag stuff out of the ground and get things hot and poison and pollute , but i got this hard thing .
i 'm so clever , "
and you look behind you , and there 's destruction all around you .
but guess what ? you 're so clever , but you 're not as clever as a clam .
a clamshell 's hard .
there 's no vacuums . there 's no big furnaces . there 's no poison . there 's no pollution .
it turns out that our other species has figured out a long time ago how to create many of the things that we need using biological processes that nature knows how to use well .
well that insight of biomimicry , of our scientists finally realizing that we have as much to learn from other species . i don 't mean taking a mouse and sticking it with stuff .
i don 't mean looking at it from that way -- abusing the little species . i mean actually respecting them , respecting what they 've achieved .
that 's called biomimicry , and that opens the door to zero waste production , zero pollution production -- that we could actually enjoy a high quality of life , a high standard of living without trashing the planet .
well that idea of biomimicry , respecting the wisdom of all species , combined with the idea of democracy and social justice , respecting the wisdom and the worth of all people , would give us a different society .
we would have a different economy .
we would have a green society that dr. king would be proud of .
that should be the goal .
and the way that we get there is to first of all recognize that the idea of disposability not only hurts the species we 've talked about , but it even corrupts our own society .
we 're so proud to live here in california .
we just had this vote , and everybody 's like , " well , not in our state .
i don 't know what those other states were doing . "
just so proud .
and , yeah , i 'm proud , too .
but california , though we lead the world in some of the green stuff , we also , unfortunately , lead the world in some of the gulag stuff .
california has one of the highest incarceration rates of all the 50 states .
we have a moral challenge in this moment .
we are passionate about rescuing some dead materials from the landfill , but sometimes not as passionate about rescuing living beings , living people .
and i would say that we live in a country -- five percent of the world 's population , 25 percent of the greenhouse gases , but also 25 percent of the world 's prisoners .
one out of every four people locked up anywhere in the world is locked up right here in the united states .
so that is consistent with this idea that disposability is something we believe in .
and yet , as a movement that has to broaden its constituency , that has to grow , that has to reach out beyond our natural comfort zone , one of the challenges to the success of this movement , of getting rid of things like plastic and helping the economy shift , is people look at our movement with some suspicion .
and they ask a question , and the question is : how can these people be so passionate ?
a poor person , a low-income person , somebody in " cancer alley , " somebody in watts , somebody in harlem , somebody on an indian reservation , might say to themselves , and rightfully so , " how can these people be so passionate about making sure that a plastic bottle has a second chance in life , or an aluminum can has a second chance , and yet , when my child gets in trouble and goes to prison , he doesn 't get a second chance ? "
how can this movement be so passionate about saying we don 't have throwaway stuff , no throwaway dead materials , and yet accept throwaway lives and throwaway communities like " cancer alley ? "
and so we now get a chance to be truly proud of this movement .
when we take on topics like this , it gives us that extra call to reach out to other movements and to become more inclusive and to grow ,
and we can finally get out of this crazy dilemma that we 've been in .
most of you are good , softhearted people .
when you were younger , you cared about the whole world , and at some point somebody said you had to pick an issue , you had to boil your love down to an issue .
can 't love the whole world -- you 've got to work on trees , or you 've got to work on immigration .
you 've got to shrink it down and be about one issue .
and really , they fundamentally told you , " are you going to hug a tree , or are you going to hug a child ? pick .
are you going to hug a tree , or are you going to hug a child ? pick . "
well , when you start working on issues like plastic , you realize that the whole thing is connected , and luckily most of us are blessed to have two arms .
we can hug both .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / paul _ moller _ on _ the _ skycar.html
paul moller talks about the future of personal air travel -- the marriage of autos and flight that will give us true freedom to travel off-road . he shows two things he 's working on : the moller skycar and a passenger-friendly hovering disc .
design , engineering , invention , technology , transportation
429
paul moller on the skycar
many of you could ask the question , you know , why is a flying car , or maybe more accurately , a roadable aircraft , possible at this time ?
a number of years ago , mr. ford predicted that flying cars of some form would be available .
now , 60 years later , i 'm here to tell you why it 's possible .
when i was about five years old , not very much -- about a year after mr. ford made his predictions , i was living in a rural part of canada , on the side of a mountain in a very isolated area .
getting to school , for a kid that was actually pretty short for his age , through the canadian winter , was not a pleasant experience .
it was a trying and scary thing for a young kid to be going through .
at the end of my first year in school , in the summer of that year , i discovered a couple hummingbirds that were caught in a shed near my home .
they 'd worn themselves out , beating themselves against the window , and , well , they were easy to capture . i took them outside and as i let them go , that split second , even though they were very tired , that second i let them go they hovered for a second , then zipped off into the distance .
i thought , what a great way to get to school .
for a kid at that age , this was like infinite speed , disappearing , and i was very inspired by that .
and so the next -- over the next six decades , believe it or not , i 've built a number of aircraft , with the goal of creating something that could do for you , or me , what the hummingbird does , and give you that flexibility .
i 've called this vehicle , generically , a volantor , after the latin word " volant , " meaning , to fly in a light , nimble manner .
volantor-like helicopter , perhaps .
the faa , the controlling body above all , calls it a " powered lift aircraft . "
and they 've actually issued a pilot 's license -- a powerlift pilot 's license -- for this type of aircraft .
it 's closer than you think . it 's kind of remarkable when you consider that there are no operational powered lift aircraft .
so for once , perhaps , the government is ahead of itself .
the press calls my particular volantor a " skycar . "
this is a little bit earlier version of it , that 's why it 's given the x designation , but it 's a four-passenger aircraft that could take off vertically , like a helicopter -- therefore it doesn 't need an airfield .
on the ground , it 's powered electrically .
it 's actually classified as a motorcycle because of the three wheels , which is a great asset because it allows you , theoretically , to use this on the highways in most states , and actually in all cities .
so that 's an asset because if you 've got to deal with the crash protection issues of the automobile , forget it -- you 're never going to fly it .
one could say that a helicopter does pretty much what the hummingbird does , and gets around in much the same way , and it 's true , but a helicopter is a very complex device .
it 's expensive -- so expensive that very few people could own or use it .
it 's often been described because of its fragile nature and its complexity , as a series of parts -- a large number of parts -- flying in formation .
another difference , and i have to describe this , because it 's very personal , another great difference between the helicopter and the volantor -- in my case the skycar volantor -- is the experience that i 've had in flying both of those .
in a helicopter you feel -- and it 's still a remarkable sensation -- you feel like you 're being hauled up from above by a vibrating crane .
when you get in the skycar -- and i can tell you , there 's only one other person that 's flown it , but he had the same sensation -- you really feel like you 're being lifted up by a magic carpet , without any vibration whatsoever . the sensation is unbelievable .
and it 's been a great motivator .
i only get to fly this vehicle occasionally , and only when i can persuade my stockholders to let me do so , but it 's still one of those wonderful experiences that reward you for all that time .
what we really need is something to replace the automobile for those 50-plus mile trips .
very few people realize that 50 mile-plus trips make up 85 percent of the miles traveled in america .
if we can get rid of that , then the highways will now be useful to you , as contrasted by what 's happening in many parts of the world today .
on this next slide , is an interesting history of what we really have seen in infrastructure , because whether i give you a perfect skycar , the perfect vehicle for use , it 's going to have very little value to you unless you 've got a system to use it in .
i 'm sure any of you have asked the question , yeah , are there great things up there -- what am i going to do , get up there ?
it 's bad enough on a highway , what 's it going to be like to be in the air ?
this world that you 're going to be talking about tomorrow is going to be completely integrated . you 're not going to be a pilot , you 're going to be a passenger .
and it 's the infrastructure that really determines whether this process goes forward .
i can tell you , technically we can build skycars -- my god , we went to the moon !
the technology there was much more difficult than what i 'm dealing with here .
but we have to have these priority changes , we have to have infrastructure to go with this .
historically you see that we got around 200 years ago by canals , and as that system disappeared , were replaced by railroads .
as that disappeared we came in with highways .
but if you look at that top corner -- the highway system -- you see where we are today . highways are no longer being built , and that 's a fact . you won 't see any additional highways in the next 10 years .
however , the next 10 years , if like the last 10 years , we 're going to see 30 percent more traffic .
and where is that going to lead you to ?
so the issue then , i 've often asked , is when is it going to happen ?
when are we going to be able to have these vehicles ?
and of course , if you ask me , i 'm going to give you a really optimistic view .
after all , i 've been spending 60 years here believing it 's going to happen tomorrow .
so , i 'm not going to quote myself on this .
i 'd prefer to quote someone else , who testified with me before congress , and in his position as head of nasa put forward this particular vision of the future of this type of aircraft .
now i would argue , actually , if you look at the fact that on the highways today , you 're only averaging about 30 miles per hour -- on average , according to the dot -- the skycar travels at over 300 miles an hour , up to 25,000 feet .
and so , in effect , you could see perhaps a tenfold increase in the ability to get around as far as speed is concerned .
unbeknownst to many of you , the highway in the sky that i 'm talking about here has been under construction for 10 years .
it makes use of the gps -- you 're familiar with gps in your automobile , but you may not be familiar with the fact that there 's a gps u.s. , there 's a russian gps , and there 's a new gps system going to europe , called galileo .
with those three systems , you have what is always necessary -- a level of redundancy that says , if one system fails , you 'll still have a way to make sure that you 're being controlled .
because if you 're in this world , where computers are controlling what you 're doing , it 's going to be very critical that something can 't fail on you .
how would a trip in a skycar work ?
well , you can 't right now take off from your home because it 's too noisy .
i mean to be able to take off from your home , you 'd have to be extremely quiet .
but it 's still fairly quiet .
you 'd motor , electrically , to a vertiport , which may be a few blocks , maybe even a few miles away .
this is clearly , as i said earlier , a roadable aircraft , and you 're not going to spend that much time on the road .
after all , if you can fly like that , why are you going to drive around on a highway ?
go to a local vertiport , plug in your destination , delivered almost like a passenger .
you can play computer games , you can sleep , you can read on the way .
this is the world -- there won 't be you as a pilot . and i know the pilots in the audience aren 't going to like that -- and i 've had a lot of bad feedback from people who want to be up there , flying around and experiencing that .
and of course , i suppose like recreational parks you can still do that .
but the vehicle itself is going to be a very , very controlled environment .
or it 's going to have no use to you as a person who might use such a system .
we flew the first vehicle for the international press in 1965 , when i really got it started .
i was a professor at the u.c. davis system , and i got a lot of excitement around this , and i was able to fund the initiation of the program back in that time .
and then through the various years we invented various vehicles .
actually the critical point was in 1989 , when we demonstrated the stability of this vehicle -- how completely stable it was in all circumstances , which is of course very critical .
still not a practical vehicle during all of this , but moving in the right direction , we believe .
finally , in the early part of -- or actually the middle of 2002 , we flew the 400 -- m400 , which was the four-passenger vehicle .
in this case here , we 're flying it remotely , as we always did at the beginning .
and we had very small power plants in it at this time .
we are now installing larger powerplants , which will make it possible for me to get back on board .
a vertical-takeoff aircraft is not the safest vehicle during the test flight program .
there 's an old adage that applied for the years between 1950s and 1970s , when every aeronautical company was working on vertical-takeoff aircraft .
a vertical-takeoff aircraft needs an artificial stabilization system -- that 's essential .
at least for the hover , and the low-speed flight .
if that single-stability system , that brain that flies that aircraft , fails , or if the engine fails , that vehicle crashes . there is no option to that .
and the adage that i 'm referring to , that applied at that time , was that nothing comes down faster than a vtol aircraft upside down .
that 's a macabre comment because we lost a lot of pilots .
in fact , the aircraft companies gave up on vertical-takeoff aircraft more or less for a number of years .
and there 's really only one operational aircraft in the world today that 's a vertical-takeoff aircraft -- as distinct from a helicopter -- and that 's the hawker harrier jump jet .
a vertical-takeoff aircraft , like the hummingbird , has a very high metabolism , which means it requires a lot of energy .
getting that energy is very , very difficult . it all comes down to that power plant -- how to get a large amount of power in a small package .
fortunately , dr. felix wankel invented the rotary engine .
a very unique engine -- it 's round , it 's small , it 's vibration-free .
it fits exactly where we need to fit it , right in the center of the hubs of the ducts in the system -- very critical . in fact that engine -- for those who are into the automobile -- know that it recently is applied to the rx8 -- the mazda .
and that sportscar won sports car of the year .
wonderful engine .
in that application , it generates one horsepower per pound , which is twice as good as your car engine today , but only half of what we need .
my company has spent 35 years and many millions of dollars taking that rotary engine , which was invented in the late ' 50s , and getting it to the point that we get over two horsepower per pound , reliably , and critical .
we actually get 175 horsepower into one cubic foot .
we have eight engines in this vehicle . we have four computers . we have two parachutes .
redundancy is the critical issue here .
if you want to stay alive you 've got to have backups .
and we have actually flown this vehicle and lost an engine , and continued to hover .
the computers back up each other . there 's a voting system -- if one computer is not agreeing with the other three , it 's kicked out of the system .
and then you have three -- you still have the triple redundancy .
if one of those fails , you still have a second chance .
if you stick around , then good luck .
there won 't be a third chance .
the parachutes are there -- hopefully , more for psychological than real reasons , but they will be an ultimate backup if it comes to that .
i 'd like to show you an animation in this next one , which is one element of the skycar 's use , but it 's one that demonstrates how it could be used .
you could think of it personally in your own terms , of how you might use it .
video : skycar dispatched , launch rescue vehicle for san francisco .
paul moller : i believe that personal transportation in something like the skycar , probably in another volantor form as well , will be a significant part of our lives , as dr. goldin says , within the next 10 years .
and it 's going to change the demographics in a very significant way .
if you can live 75 miles from san francisco and get there in 15 minutes , you 're going to sell your 700,000-dollar apartment , buy an upscale home on the side of a mountain , buy a skycar , which i think would be priced at that time perhaps in the area of 100,000 dollars , put money in the bank ...
that 's a very significant incentive for getting out of san francisco .
but you better be the first one out of town as the real estate values go to hell .
developing the skycar has been a real challenge .
obviously i 'm dependent on a lot of other people believing in what i 'm doing -- both financially and in technical help .
and that has -- you run into situations where you have this great acceptance of what you 're doing , and a lot of rejection of the same kind of thing .
i characterized this emerging technology in an aphorism , as it 's described , which really talks about what i 've experienced , and i 'm sure what other people may have experienced in emerging technologies .
there 's an interesting poll that came out recently under nas -- i think it 's msnbc -- in which they asked the question , " are you in the market for a volantor ? "
twenty-three percent said , " yes , as soon as possible . "
forty-seven percent -- yes , as soon as they could -- price could come down .
twenty-three percent said , " as soon as it 's proven safe . "
only seven percent said that they wouldn 't consider buying a skycar .
i 'm encouraged by that . at least it makes me feel like , to some extent , it is becoming self-evident .
that we need an alternative to the automobile , at least for those 50-mile trips and more , so that the highways become usable in today 's world .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eric _ giler _ demos _ wireless _ electricity.html
eric giler wants to untangle our wired lives with cable-free electric power . here , he covers what this sci-fi tech offers , and demos mit 's breakthrough version , witricity -- a near-to-market invention that may soon recharge your cell phone , car , pacemaker .
engineering , entrepreneur , future , science , technology
619
eric giler demos wireless electricity
early visions of wireless power actually were thought of by nikola tesla basically about 100 years ago .
the thought that you wouldn 't want to transfer electric power wirelessly , no one ever thought of that .
they thought , " who would use it if you didn 't ? "
and so , in fact , he actually set about doing a variety of things .
built the tesla coil . this tower was built on long island back at the beginning of the 1900s .
and the idea was , it was supposed to be able to transfer power anywhere on earth .
we 'll never know if this stuff worked . actually , i think the federal bureau of investigation took it down for security purposes , sometime in the early 1900s .
but the one thing that did come out of electricity is that we love this stuff so much .
if you just walk outside , there are trillions of dollars that have been invested in infrastructure around the world , putting up wires to get power from where it 's created to where it 's used .
the other thing is , we love batteries .
and for those of us that have an environmental element to us , there is something like 40 billion disposable batteries built every year
for power that , generally speaking , is used within a few inches or a few feet of where there is very inexpensive power .
so , before i got here , i thought , " you know , i am from north america .
we do have a little bit of a reputation in the united states . "
so i thought i 'd better look it up first .
so definition number six is the north american definition of the word " suck . "
wires suck , they really do .
think about it . whether that 's you in that picture or something under your desk .
the other thing is , batteries suck too .
and they really , really do .
do you ever wonder what happens to this stuff ?
40 billion of these things built .
this is what happens .
they fall apart , they disintegrate , and they end up here .
so when you talk about expensive power , the cost per kilowatt-hour to supply battery power to something is on the order of two to three hundred pounds .
think about that .
the most expensive grid power in the world is thousandths of that .
so fortunately , one of the other definitions of " suck " that was in there , it does create a vacuum .
and nature really does abhor a vacuum .
what happened back a few years ago was a group of theoretical physicists at mit actually came up with this concept of transferring power over distance .
basically they were able to light a 60 watt light bulb at a distance of about two meters .
it got about 50 percent of the efficiency --
by the way , that 's still a couple thousand times more efficient than a battery would be , to do the same thing .
but were able to light that , and do it very successfully . this was actually the experiment . so you can see the coils were somewhat larger .
the light bulb was a fairly simple task , from their standpoint .
this all came from a professor waking up at night to the third night in a row that his wife 's cellphone was beeping because it was running out of battery power .
and he was thinking , " with all the electricity that 's out there in the walls , why couldn 't some of that just come into the phone so i could get some sleep ? "
and he actually came up with this concept of resonant energy transfer .
but inside a standard transformer are two coils of wire . and those two coils of wire are really , really close to each other , and actually do transfer power magnetically and wirelessly , only over a very short distance .
what dr. soljacic figured out how to do was separate the coils in a transformer to a greater distance than the size of those transformers using this technology , which is not dissimilar from the way an opera singer shatters a glass on the other side of the room .
it 's a resonant phenomenon for which he actually received a macarthur fellowship award , which is nicknamed the genius award , last september , for his discovery .
so how does it work ?
imagine a coil . for those of you that are engineers , there 's a capacitor attached to it too .
and if you can cause that coil to resonate , what will happen is it will pulse at alternating current frequencies -- at a fairly high frequency , by the way .
and if you can bring another device close enough to the source , that will only work at exactly that frequency , you can actually get them to do what 's called strongly couple , and transfer magnetic energy between them .
and then what you do is , you start out with electricity , turn it into magnetic field , take that magnetic field , turn it back into electricity , and then you can use it .
number one question i get asked . i mean , people are worried about cellphones being safe .
you know . what about safety ?
the first thing is this is not a " radiative " technology .
it doesn 't radiate .
there aren 't electric fields here . it 's a magnetic field .
it stays within either what we call the source , or within the device .
and actually , the magnetic fields we 're using are basically about the same as the earth 's magnetic field .
we live in a magnetic field .
and the other thing that 's pretty cool about the technology is that it only transfers energy to things that work at exactly the same frequency .
and it 's virtually impossible in nature to make that happen .
then finally we have governmental bodies everywhere that will regulate everything we do .
they 've pretty much set field exposure limits , which all of the things in the stuff i 'll show you today mobile electronics .
home electronics .
those cords under your desk , i bet everybody here has something that looks like that or those batteries .
there are industrial applications .
and then finally , electric vehicles .
these electric cars are beautiful .
but who is going to want to plug them in ?
imagine driving into your garage -- we 've built a system to do this -- you drive into your garage , and the car charges itself ,
because there is a mat on the floor that 's plugged into the wall .
and it actually causes your car to charge safely and efficiently .
then there 's all kinds of other applications . implanted medical devices ,
where people don 't have to die of infections anymore if you can seal the thing up .
credit cards , robot vacuum cleaners .
so what i 'd like to do is take a couple minutes and show you , actually , how it works .
and what i 'm going to do is to show you pretty much what 's here .
you 've got a coil . that coil is connected to an r.f. amplifier that creates a high-frequency oscillating magnetic field .
we put one on the back of the television set .
by the way , i do make it look a little bit easier than it is .
there 's lots of electronics and secret sauce and all kinds of intellectual property that go into it .
but then what 's going to happen is , it will create a field . it will cause one to get created on the other side .
and if the demo gods are willing , in about 10 seconds or so we should see it .
the 10 seconds actually are because we --
i don 't know if any of you have ever thought about plugging a t.v. in when you use just a cord .
generally , you have to go over and hit the button . so i thought we put a little computer in it that has to wake up to tell it to do that .
so , i 'll plug that in .
it creates a magnetic field here .
it causes one to be created out here .
and as i said , in sort of about 10 seconds we should start to see ...
this is a commercially -- available color television set .
imagine , you get one of these things . you want to hang them on the wall .
how many people want to hang them on the wall ?
think about it . you don 't want those ugly cords coming down .
imagine if you can get rid of it .
the other thing i wanted to talk about was safety .
so , there is nothing going on . i 'm okay .
and i 'll do it again , just for safety 's sake .
almost immediately , though , people ask , " how small can you make this ? can you make this small enough ? "
because remember dr. soljacic 's original idea was his wife 's cellphone beeping .
so , i wanted to show you something .
we 're an equal opportunity designer of this sort of thing .
this a google g1 .
you know , it 's the latest thing that 's come out .
it runs the android operating system .
i think i heard somebody talk about that before .
it 's odd . it has a battery .
it also has coiled electronics that witricity has put into the back of it .
and if i can get the camera -- okay , great -- you 'll see , as i get sort of close ... you 're looking at a cellphone powered completely wirelessly .
and i know some of you are apple aficionados .
so , you know they don 't make it easy at apple to get inside their phones .
so we put a little sleeve on the back ,
but we should be able to get this guy to wake up too .
and those of you that have an iphone recognize the green center .
and nokia as well .
you 'll see that what we did there is put a little thing in the back , to do that , and it probably beeps , actually , as it goes on as well .
but they typically use it to light up the screen .
so , imagine these things could go ... they could go in your ceiling .
they could go in the floor . they could go , actually , underneath your desktop .
so that when you walk in or you come in from home , if you carry a purse , it works in your purse .
you never have to worry about plugging these things in again .
and think of what that would do for you .
so i think in closing , sort of in the immortal visions of the new yorker magazine , i thought i 'd put up one more slide .
and for those of you who can 't read it , it says , " it does appear to be some kind of wireless technology . "
so , thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jae _ rhim _ lee.html
here 's a powerful provocation from artist jae rhim lee . can we commit our bodies to a cleaner , greener earth , even after death ? naturally -- using a special burial suit seeded with pollution-gobbling mushrooms . yes , this just might be the strangest tedtalk you 'll ever see ...
ted fellows , arts , death , design , green , invention
1247
jae rhim lee : my mushroom burial suit
so i 'm here to explain why i 'm wearing these ninja pajamas .
and to do that , i 'd like to talk first about environmental toxins in our bodies .
so some of you may know about the chemical bisphenol a , bpa .
it 's a material hardener and synthetic estrogen that 's found in the lining of canned foods and some plastics .
so bpa mimics the body 's own hormones and causes neurological and reproductive problems .
and it 's everywhere .
a recent study found bpa in 93 percent of people six and older .
but it 's just one chemical .
the center for disease control in the u.s. says we have 219 toxic pollutants in our bodies , and this includes preservatives , pesticides and heavy metals like lead and mercury .
to me , this says three things .
first , don 't become a cannibal .
second , we are both responsible for and the victims of our own pollution .
and third , our bodies are filters and storehouses for environmental toxins .
so what happens to all these toxins when we die ?
the short answer is : they return to the environment in one way or another , continuing the cycle of toxicity .
but our current funeral practices make the situation much worse .
if you 're cremated , all those toxins i mentioned are released into the atmosphere .
and this includes 5,000 pounds of mercury from our dental fillings alone every year .
and in a traditional american funeral , a dead body is covered with fillers and cosmetics to make it look alive .
it 's then pumped with toxic formaldehyde to slow decomposition -- a practice which causes respiratory problems and cancer in funeral personnel .
so by trying to preserve our dead bodies , we deny death , poison the living and further harm the environment .
green or natural burials , which don 't use embalming , are a step in the right direction , but they don 't address the existing toxins in our bodies .
i think there 's a better solution .
i 'm an artist , so i 'd like to offer a modest proposal at the intersection of art , science and culture .
the infinity burial project , an alternative burial system that uses mushrooms to decompose and clean toxins in bodies .
the infinity burial project began a few years ago with a fantasy to create the infinity mushroom -- a new hybrid mushroom that would decompose bodies , clean the toxins and deliver nutrients to plant roots , leaving clean compost .
but i learned it 's nearly impossible to create a new hybrid mushroom .
i also learned that some of our tastiest mushrooms can clean environmental toxins in soil . so i thought maybe i could train an army of toxin-cleaning edible mushrooms to eat my body .
so today , i 'm collecting what i shed or slough off -- my hair , skin and nails -- and i 'm feeding these to edible mushrooms .
as the mushrooms grow , i pick the best feeders to become infinity mushrooms .
it 's a kind of imprinting and selective breeding process for the afterlife .
so when i die , the infinity mushrooms will recognize my body and be able to eat it .
all right , so for some of you , this may be really , really out there .
just a little .
i realize this is not the kind of relationship that we usually aspire to have with our food .
we want to eat , not be eaten by , our food .
but as i watch the mushrooms grow and digest my body , i imagine the infinity mushroom as a symbol of a new way of thinking about death and the relationship between my body and the environment .
see for me , cultivating the infinity mushroom is more than just scientific experimentation or gardening or raising a pet , it 's a step towards accepting the fact that someday i will die and decay .
it 's also a step towards taking responsibility for my own burden on the planet .
growing a mushroom is also part of a larger practice of cultivating decomposing organisms called decompiculture , a concept that was developed by an entomologist , timothy myles .
the infinity mushroom is a subset of decompiculture i 'm calling body decompiculture and toxin remediation -- the cultivation of organisms that decompose and clean toxins in bodies .
and now about these ninja pajamas .
once it 's completed , i plan to integrate the infinity mushrooms into a number of objects .
first , a burial suit infused with mushroom spores , the mushroom death suit .
i 'm wearing the second prototype of this burial suit .
it 's covered with a crocheted netting that is embedded with mushroom spores .
the dendritic pattern you see mimics the growth of mushroom mycelia , which are the equivalent of plant roots .
i 'm also making a decompiculture kit , a cocktail of capsules that contain infinity mushroom spores and other elements that speed decomposition and toxin remediation .
these capsules are embedded in a nutrient-rich jelly , a kind of second skin , which dissolves quickly and becomes baby food for the growing mushrooms .
so i plan to finish the mushroom and decompiculture kit in the next year or two , and then i 'd like to begin testing them , first with expired meat from the market and then with human subjects .
and believe it or not , a few people have offered to donate their bodies to the project to be eaten by mushrooms .
what i 've learned from talking to these folks is that we share a common desire to understand and accept death and to minimize the impact of our death on the environment .
i wanted to cultivate this perspective just like the mushrooms , so i formed the decompiculture society , a group of people called decompinauts who actively explore their postmortem options , seek death acceptance and cultivate decomposing organisms like the infinity mushroom .
the decompiculture society shares a vision of a cultural shift , from our current culture of death denial and body preservation to one of decompiculture , a radical acceptance of death and decomposition .
accepting death means accepting that we are physical beings who are intimately connected to the environment , as the research on environmental toxins confirms .
and the saying goes , we came from dust and will return to dust .
and once we understand that we 're connected to the environment , we see that the survival of our species depends on the survival of the planet .
i believe this is the beginning of true environmental responsibility .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / stephen _ lawler _ tours _ microsoft _ virtual _ earth.html
microsoft 's stephen lawler gives a whirlwind tour of virtual earth , moving up , down and through its hyper-real cityscapes with dazzlingly fluidity , a remarkable feat that requires staggering amounts of data to bring into focus .
design , map , microsoft , short talk , technology
139
stephen lawler tours microsoft virtual earth
what i want to talk to you about today is virtual worlds , digital globes , the 3-d web , the metaverse .
what does this all mean for us ?
what it means is the web is going to become an exciting place again .
it 's going to become super exciting as we transform to this highly immersive and interactive world . with graphics , computing power , low latencies , these types of applications and possibilities are going to stream rich data into your lives .
so the virtual earth initiative , and other types of these initiatives , are all about extending our current search metaphor .
when you think about it , we 're so constrained by browsing the web , remembering urls , saving favorites .
as we move to search , we rely on the relevance rankings , the web matching , the index crawling . but we want to use our brain !
we want to navigate , explore , discover information .
in order to do that , we have to put you as a user back in the driver 's seat .
we need cooperation between you and the computing network and the computer .
so what better way to put you back in the driver 's seat than to put you in the real world that you interact in every day ?
why not leverage the learnings that you 've been learning your entire life ?
so virtual earth is about starting off creating the first digital representation , comprehensive , of the entire world .
what we want to do is mix in all types of data .
tag it . attribute it . metadata . get the community to add local depth , global perspective , local knowledge .
so when you think about this problem , what an enormous undertaking . where do you begin ?
well , we collect data from satellites , from airplanes , from ground vehicles , from people .
this process is an engineering problem , a mechanical problem , a logistical problem , an operational problem .
here is an example of our aerial camera .
this is panchromatic . it 's actually four color cones .
in addition , it 's multi-spectral .
we collect four gigabits per second of data , if you can imagine that kind of data stream coming down .
that 's equivalent to a constellation of 12 satellites at highest res capacity .
we fly these airplanes at 5,000 feet in the air . you can see the camera on the front . we collect multiple viewpoints , vantage points , angles , textures . we bring all that data back in .
we sit here -- you know , think about the ground vehicles , the human scale -- what do you see in person ? we need to capture that up close to establish that what it 's like-type experience .
i bet many of you have seen the apple commercials , kind of poking at the pc for their brilliance and simplicity .
so a little unknown secret is -- did you see the one with the guy , he 's got the web cam ?
the poor pc guy . they 're duct taping his head . they 're just wrapping it on him .
well , a little unknown secret is his brother actually works on the virtual earth team .
. so they 've got a little bit of a sibling rivalry thing going on here .
but let me tell you -- it doesn 't affect his day job .
we think a lot of good can come from this technology .
this was after katrina . we were the first commercial fleet of airplanes to be cleared into the disaster impact zone .
we flew the area . we imaged it . we sent in people . we took pictures of interiors , disaster areas . we helped with the first responders , the search and rescue .
often the first time anyone saw what happened to their house was on virtual earth .
we made it all freely available on the web , just to -- it was obviously our chance of helping out with the cause .
when we think about how all this comes together , it 's all about software , algorithms and math .
you know , we capture this imagery but to build the 3-d models we need to do geo-positioning . we need to do geo-registering of the images .
we have to bundle adjust them . find tie points .
extract geometry from the images .
this process is a very calculated process .
in fact , it was always done manual .
hollywood would spend millions of dollars to do a small urban corridor for a movie because they 'd have to do it manually .
they 'd drive the streets with lasers called lidar .
they 'd collected information with photos . they 'd manually build each building .
we do this all through software , algorithms and math -- a highly automated pipeline creating these cities .
we took a decimal point off what it cost to build these cities , and that 's how we 're going to be able to scale this out and make this reality a dream .
we think about the user interface .
what does it mean to look at it from multiple perspectives ?
an ortho-view , a nadir-view . how do you keep the precision of the fidelity of the imagery while maintaining the fluidity of the model ?
i 'll wrap up by showing you the -- this is a brand-new peek i haven 't really shown into the lab area of virtual earth .
what we 're doing is -- people like this a lot , this bird 's eye imagery we work with . it 's this high resolution data .
but what we 've found is they like the fluidity of the 3-d model .
a child can navigate with an xbox controller or a game controller .
so here what we 're trying to do is we bring the picture and project it into the 3-d model space .
you can see all types of resolution . from here , i can slowly pan the image over .
i can get the next image . i can blend and transition .
by doing this i don 't lose the original detail . in fact , i might be recording history .
the freshness , the capacity . i can turn this image .
i can look at it from multiple viewpoints and angles .
what we 're trying to do is build a virtual world .
we hope that we can make computing a user model you 're familiar with , and really derive insights from you , from all different directions .
i thank you very much for your time .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / yasheng _ huang.html
economist yasheng huang compares china to india , and asks how china 's authoritarian rule contributed to its astonishing economic growth -- leading to a big question : is democracy actually holding india back ? huang 's answer may surprise you .
culture , economics , global issues , politics
1220
yasheng huang : does democracy stifle economic growth ?
my topic is economic growth in china and india .
and the question i want to explore with you is whether or not democracy has helped or has hindered economic growth .
you may say this is not fair , because i 'm selecting two countries to make a case against democracy .
actually , exactly the opposite is what i 'm going to do .
i 'm going to use these two countries to make an economic argument for democracy , rather than against democracy .
the first question there is why china has grown so much faster than india .
over the last 30 years , in terms of the gdp growth rates , china has grown at twice the rate of india .
in the last five years , the two countries have begun to converge somewhat in economic growth .
but over the last 30 years , china undoubtedly has done much better than india .
one simple answer is china has shanghai and india has mumbai .
look at the skyline of shanghai .
this is the pudong area .
the picture on india is the dharavi slum of mumbai in india .
the idea there behind these two pictures is that the chinese government can act above rule of law .
it can plan for the long-term benefits of the country and in the process , evict millions of people -- that 's just a small technical issue .
whereas in india , you cannot do that , because you have to listen to the public .
you 're being constrained by the public 's opinion .
even prime minister manmohan singh agrees with that view .
in an interview printed in the financial press of india , he said that he wants to make mumbai another shanghai .
this is an oxford-trained economist steeped in humanistic values , and yet he agrees with the high-pressure tactics of shanghai .
so let me call it the shanghai model of economic growth , that emphasizes the following features for promoting economic development : infrastructures , airports , highways , bridges , things like that .
and you need a strong government to do that , because you cannot respect private property rights .
you cannot be constrained by the public 's opinion .
you need also state ownership , especially of land assets , in order to build and roll out infrastructures very quickly .
the implication of that model is that democracy is a hindrance for economic growth , rather than a facilitator of economic growth .
here 's the key question . just how important are infrastructures for economic growth ?
this is a key issue .
if you believe that infrastructures are very important for economic growth , then you would argue a strong government is necessary to promote growth .
if you believe that infrastructures are not as important as many people believe , then you will put less emphasis on strong government .
so to illustrate that question , let me give you two countries .
and for the sake of brevity , i 'll call one country country 1 and the other country country 2 .
country 1 has a systematic advantage over country 2 in infrastructures .
country 1 has more telephones , and country 1 has a longer system of railways .
so if i were to ask you , " which is china and which is india , and which country has grown faster ? " if you believe in the infrastructure view , then you will say , " country 1 must be china .
they must have done better , in terms of economic growth .
and country 2 is possibly india . "
actually the country with more telephones is the soviet union , and the data referred to 1989 .
after the country reported very impressive statistics on telephones , the country collapsed .
that 's not too good .
the picture there is khrushchev .
i know that in 1989 he no longer ruled the soviet union , but that 's the best picture that i can find .
telephones , infrastructures do not guarantee you economic growth .
country 2 , that has fewer telephones , is china .
since 1989 , the country has performed at a double-digit rate every year for the last 20 years .
if you know nothing about china and the soviet union other than the fact about their telephones , you would have made a poor prediction about their economic growth in the next two decades .
country 1 , that has a longer system of railways , is actually india .
and country 2 is china .
this is a very little known fact about the two countries .
yes , today china has a huge infrastructure advantage over india .
but for many years , until the late 1990s , china had an infrastructure disadvantage vis-a-vis india .
in developing countries , the most common mode of transportation is the railways , and the british built a lot of railways in india .
india is the smaller of the two countries , and yet it had a longer system of railways until the late 1990s .
so clearly , infrastructure doesn 't explain why china did better before the late 1990s , as compared with india .
in fact , if you look at the evidence worldwide , the evidence is more supportive of the view that the infrastructure are actually the result of economic growth . the economy grows , government accumulates more resources , and the government can invest in infrastructure -- rather than infrastructure being a cause for economic growth .
and this is clearly the story of the chinese economic growth .
let me look at this question more directly .
is democracy bad for economic growth ?
now let 's turn to two countries , country a and country b .
country a , in 1990 , had about $ 300 per capita gdp as compared with country b , which had $ 460 in per capita gdp .
by 2008 , country a has surpassed country b with $ 700 per capita gdp as compared with $ 650 per capita gdp .
both countries are in asia .
if i were to ask you , " which are the two asian countries ?
and which one is a democracy ? " you may argue , " well , maybe country a is china and country b is india . "
in fact , country a is democratic india , and country b is pakistan -- the country that has a long period of military rule .
and it 's very common that we compare india with china .
that 's because the two countries have about the same population size .
but the more natural comparison is actually between india and pakistan .
those two countries are geographically similar .
they have a complicated , but shared common history .
by that comparison , democracy looks very , very good in terms of economic growth .
so why do economists fall in love with authoritarian governments ?
one reason is the east asian model .
in east asia , we have had successful economic growth stories such as korea , taiwan , hong kong and singapore .
some of these economies were ruled by authoritarian governments in the 60s and 70s and 1980s .
the problem with that view is like asking all the winners of lotteries , " have you won the lottery ? "
and they all tell you , " yes , we have won the lottery . "
and then you draw the conclusion the odds of winning the lottery are 100 percent .
the reason is you never go and bother to ask the losers who also purchased lottery tickets and didn 't end up winning the prize .
for each of these successful authoritarian governments in east asia , there 's a matched failure .
korea succeeded , north korea didn 't .
taiwan succeeded , china under mao zedong didn 't .
burma didn 't succeed .
the philippines didn 't succeed .
if you look at the statistical evidence worldwide , there 's really no support for the idea that authoritarian governments hold a systematic edge over democracies in terms of economic growth .
so the east asian model has this massive selection bias -- it is known as selecting on a dependent variable , something we always tell our students to avoid .
so exactly why did china grow so much faster ?
i will take you to the cultural revolution , when china went mad , and compare that country 's performance with india under indira gandhi .
the question there is : which country did better , china or india ?
china was during the cultural revolution .
it turns out even during the cultural revolution , china out-perfomed india in terms of gdp growth by an average of about 2.2 percent every year in terms of per capita gdp .
so that 's when china was mad . the whole country went mad .
it must mean that the country had something so advantageous to itself in terms of economic growth to overcome the negative effects of the cultural revolution .
the advantage the country had was human capital -- nothing else but human capital .
this is the world development index indicator data in the early 1990s .
and this is the earliest data that i can find .
the adult literacy rate in china is 77 percent as compared with 48 percent in india .
the contrast in literacy rates is especially sharp between chinese women and indian women .
i haven 't told you about the definition of literacy .
in china , the definition of literacy is the ability to read and write 1,500 chinese characters .
in india , the definition of literacy , operating definition of literacy , is the ability , the grand ability , to write your own name in whatever language you happen to speak .
the gap between the two countries in terms of literacy is much more substantial than the data here indicated .
if you go to other sources of data such as human development index , that data series , go back to the early 1970s , you see exactly the same contrast .
china held a huge advantage in terms of human capital vis-a-vis india .
life expectancies : as early as 1965 , china had a huge advantage in life expectancy .
on average , as a chinese in 1965 , you lived 10 years more than an average indian .
so if you have a choice between being a chinese and being an indian , you would want to become a chinese in order to live 10 years longer .
if you made that decision in 1965 , the down side of that is the next year we have the cultural revolution .
so you have to always think carefully about these decisions .
if you cannot chose your nationality , then you will want to become an indian man .
because , as an indian man , you have about two years of life expectancy advantage vis-a-vis indian women .
this is an extremely strange fact .
it 's very rare among countries to have this kind of pattern .
it shows the systematic discrimination and biases in the indian society against women .
the good news is , by 2006 , india has closed the gap between men and women in terms of life expectancy .
today , indian women have a sizable life expectancy edge over indian men .
so india is reverting to the normal .
but india still has a lot of work to do in terms of gender equality .
these are the two pictures taken of garment factories in guangdong province and garment factories in india .
in china , it 's all women .
60 to 80 percent of the workforce in china is women in the coastal part of the country , whereas in india , it 's all men .
financial times printed this picture of an indian textile factory with the title , " india poised to overtake china in textile . "
by looking at these two pictures , i say no , it won 't overtake china for a while .
if you look at other east asian countries , women there play a hugely important role in terms of economic take-off -- in terms of creating the manufacturing miracle associated with east asia .
india still has a long way to go to catch up with china .
then the issue is , what about the chinese political system ?
you talk about human capital , you talk about education and public health .
what about the political system ?
isn 't it true that the one-party political system has facilitated economic growth in china ?
actually , the answer is more nuanced and subtle than that .
it depends on a distinction that you draw between statics of the political system and the dynamics of the political system .
statically , china is a one-party system , authoritarian -- there 's no question about it .
dynamically , it has changed over time to become less authoritarian and more democratic .
when you explain change -- for example , economic growth ; economic growth is about change -- when you explain change , you use other things that have changed to explain change , rather than using the constant to explain change .
sometimes a fixed effect can explain change , but a fixed effect only explains changes in interaction with the things that change .
in terms of the political changes , they have introduced village elections .
they have increased the security of proprietors .
and they have increased the security with long-term land leases .
there are also financial reforms in rural china .
there is also a rural entrepreneurial revolution in china .
to me , the pace of political changes is too slow , too gradual .
and my own view is the country is going to face some substantial challenges , because they have not moved further and faster on political reforms .
but nevertheless , the system has moved in a more liberal direction , moved in a more democratic direction .
you can apply exactly the same dynamic perspective on india .
in fact , when india was growing at a hindu rate of growth -- about one percent , two percent a year -- that was when india was least democratic .
indira gandhi declared emergency rule in 1975 .
the indian government owned and operated all the tv stations .
a little-known fact about india in the 1990s is that the country not only has undertaken economic reforms , the country has also undertaken political reforms by introducing village self-rule , privatization of media and introducing freedom of information acts .
so the dynamic perspective fits both with china and in india in terms of the direction .
why do many people believe that india is still a growth disaster ?
one reason is they are always comparing india with china .
but china is a superstar in terms of economic growth .
if you are a nba player and you are always being compared to michael jordan , you 're going to look not so impressive .
but that doesn 't mean that you 're a bad basketball player .
comparing with a superstar is the wrong benchmark .
in fact , if you compare india with the average developing country , even before the more recent period of acceleration of indian growth -- now india is growing between eight and nine percent -- even before this period , india was ranked fourth in terms of economic growth among emerging economies .
this is a very impressive record indeed .
let 's think about the future : the dragon vis-a-vis the elephant .
which country has the growth momentum ?
china , i believe , still has some of the excellent raw fundamentals -- mostly the social capital , the public health , the sense of egalitarianism that you don 't find in india .
but i believe that india has the momentum .
it has the improving fundamentals . the government has invested in basic education , has invested in basic health .
i believe the government should do more , but nevertheless , the direction it is moving in is the right direction .
india has the right institutional conditions for economic growth , whereas china is still struggling with political reforms .
i believe that the political reforms are a must for china to maintain its growth .
and it 's very important to have political reforms , to have widely shared benefits of economic growth .
i don 't know whether that 's going to happen or not , but i 'm an optimist .
hopefully , five years from now , i 'm going to report to tedglobal that political reforms will happen in china .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / steven _ johnson _ where _ good _ ideas _ come _ from.html
people often credit their ideas to individual " eureka ! " moments . but steven johnson shows how history tells a different story . his fascinating tour takes us from the " liquid networks " of london 's coffee houses to charles darwin 's long , slow hunch to today 's high-velocity web .
collaboration , innovation , novel , science , technology
961
steven johnson : where good ideas come from
just a few minutes ago , i took this picture about 10 blocks from here .
this is the grand cafe here in oxford .
i took this picture because this turns out to be the first coffeehouse to open in england in 1650 .
that 's its great claim to fame ,
and i wanted to show it to you , not because i want to give you the kind of starbucks tour of historic england , but rather because the english coffeehouse was crucial to the development and spread of one of the great intellectual flowerings of the last 500 years , what we now call the enlightenment .
and the coffeehouse played such a big role in the birth of the enlightenment , in part , because of what people were drinking there .
because , before the spread of coffee and tea through british culture , what people drank -- both elite and mass folks drank -- day-in and day-out , from dawn until dusk was alcohol .
alcohol was the daytime beverage of choice .
you would drink a little beer with breakfast and have a little wine at lunch , a little gin -- particularly around 1650 -- and top it off with a little beer and wine at the end of the day .
that was the healthy choice -- right -- because the water wasn 't safe to drink .
and so , effectively until the rise of the coffeehouse , you had an entire population that was effectively drunk all day .
and you can imagine what that would be like , right , in your own life -- and i know this is true of some of you -- if you were drinking all day , and then you switched from a depressant to a stimulant in your life , you would have better ideas .
you would be sharper and more alert .
and so it 's not an accident that a great flowering of innovation happened as england switched to tea and coffee .
but the other thing that makes the coffeehouse important is the architecture of the space .
it was a space where people would get together from different backgrounds , different fields of expertise , and share .
it was a space , as matt ridley talked about , where ideas could have sex .
this was their conjugal bed , in a sense --
ideas would get together there .
and an astonishing number of innovations from this period have a coffeehouse somewhere in their story .
i 've been spending a lot of time thinking about coffeehouses for the last five years , because i 've been kind of on this quest to investigate this question of where good ideas come from .
what are the environments that lead to unusual levels of innovation , unusual levels of creativity ?
what 's the kind of environmental -- what is the space of creativity ?
and what i 've done is i 've looked at both environments like the coffeehouse ; i 've looked at media environments , like the world wide web , that have been extraordinarily innovative ; i 've gone back to the history of the first cities ; i 've even gone to biological environments , like coral reefs and rainforests , that involve unusual levels of biological innovation ; and what i 've been looking for is shared patterns , kind of signature behavior that shows up again and again in all of these environments .
are there recurring patterns that we can learn from , that we can take and kind of apply to our own lives , or our own organizations , or our own environments to make them more creative and innovative ?
and i think i 've found a few .
but what you have to do to make sense of this and to really understand these principles is you have to do away with a lot of the way in which our conventional metaphors and language steers us towards certain concepts of idea-creation .
we have this very rich vocabulary to describe moments of inspiration .
we have the kind of the flash of insight , the stroke of insight , we have epiphanies , we have " eureka ! " moments , we have the lightbulb moments , right ?
all of these concepts , as kind of rhetorically florid as they are , share this basic assumption , which is that an idea is a single thing , it 's something that happens often in a wonderful illuminating moment .
but in fact , what i would argue and what you really need to kind of begin with is this idea that an idea is a network on the most elemental level .
i mean , this is what is happening inside your brain .
an idea -- a new idea -- is a new network of neurons firing in sync with each other inside your brain .
it 's a new configuration that has never formed before .
and the question is : how do you get your brain into environments where these new networks are going to be more likely to form ?
and it turns out that , in fact , the kind of network patterns of the outside world mimic a lot of the network patterns of the internal world of the human brain .
so the metaphor i 'd like the use i can take from a story of a great idea that 's quite recent -- a lot more recent than the 1650s .
a wonderful guy named timothy prestero , who has a company called ... an organization called design that matters .
they decided to tackle this really pressing problem of , you know , the terrible problems we have with infant mortality rates in the developing world .
one of the things that 's very frustrating about this is that we know , by getting modern neonatal incubators into any context , if we can keep premature babies warm , basically -- it 's very simple -- we can halve infant mortality rates in those environments .
so , the technology is there .
these are standard in all the industrialized worlds .
the problem is , if you buy a $ 40,000 incubator , and you send it off to a mid-sized village in africa , it will work great for a year or two years , and then something will go wrong and it will break , and it will remain broken forever , because you don 't have a whole system of spare parts , and you don 't have the on-the-ground expertise to fix this $ 40,000 piece of equipment .
and so you end up having this problem where you spend all this money getting aid and all these advanced electronics to these countries , and then it ends up being useless .
so what prestero and his team decided to do is to look around and see : what are the abundant resources in these developing world contexts ?
and what they noticed was they don 't have a lot of dvrs , they don 't have a lot of microwaves , but they seem to do a pretty good job of keeping their cars on the road .
there 's a toyota forerunner on the street in all these places .
they seem to have the expertise to keep cars working .
so they started to think , " could we build a neonatal incubator that 's built entirely out of automobile parts ? "
and this is what they ended up coming with .
it 's called a " neonurture device . "
from the outside , it looks like a normal little thing you 'd find in a modern , western hospital .
in the inside , it 's all car parts .
it 's got a fan , it 's got headlights for warmth , it 's got door chimes for alarm --
it runs off a car battery .
and so all you need is the spare parts from your toyota and the ability to fix a headlight , and you can repair this thing .
now , that 's a great idea , but what i 'd like to say is that , in fact , this is a great metaphor for the way that ideas happen .
we like to think our breakthrough ideas , you know , are like that $ 40,000 , brand new incubator , state-of-the-art technology , but more often than not , they 're cobbled together from whatever parts that happen to be around nearby .
we take ideas from other people , from people we 've learned from , from people we run into in the coffee shop , and we stitch them together into new forms and we create something new .
that 's really where innovation happens .
and that means that we have to change some of our models of what innovation and deep thinking really looks like , right .
i mean , this is one vision of it .
another is newton and the apple , when newton was at cambridge .
this is a statue from oxford .
you know , you 're sitting there thinking a deep thought , and the apple falls from the tree , and you have the theory of gravity .
in fact , the spaces that have historically led to innovation tend to look like this , right .
this is hogarth 's famous painting of a kind of political dinner at a tavern , but this is what the coffee shops looked like back then .
this is the kind of chaotic environment where ideas were likely to come together , where people were likely to have new , interesting , unpredictable collisions -- people from different backgrounds .
so , if we 're trying to build organizations that are more innovative , we have to build spaces that -- strangely enough -- look a little bit more like this .
this is what your office should look like , is part of my message here .
and one of the problems with this is that people are actually -- when you research this field -- people are notoriously unreliable , when they actually kind of self-report on where they have their own good ideas , or their history of their best ideas .
and a few years ago , a wonderful researcher named kevin dunbar decided to go around and basically do the big brother approach to figuring out where good ideas come from .
he went to a bunch of science labs around the world and videotaped everyone as they were doing every little bit of their job .
so when they were sitting in front of the microscope , when they were talking to their colleague at the water cooler , and all these things .
and he recorded all of these conversations and tried to figure out where the most important ideas , where they happened .
and when we think about the classic image of the scientist in the lab , we have this image -- you know , they 're pouring over the microscope , and they see something in the tissue sample .
and " oh , eureka , " they 've got the idea .
what happened actually when dunbar kind of looked at the tape is that , in fact , almost all of the important breakthrough ideas did not happen alone in the lab , in front of the microscope .
they happened at the conference table at the weekly lab meeting , when everybody got together and shared their kind of latest data and findings , oftentimes when people shared the mistakes they were having , the error , the noise in the signal they were discovering .
and something about that environment -- and i 've started calling it the " liquid network , " where you have lots of different ideas that are together , different backgrounds , different interests , jostling with each other , bouncing off each other -- that environment is , in fact , the environment that leads to innovation .
the other problem that people have is they like to condense their stories of innovation down to kind of shorter time frames .
so they want to tell the story of the " eureka ! " moment .
they want to say , " there i was , i was standing there and i had it all suddenly clear in my head . " but in fact , if you go back and look at the historical record , it turns out that a lot of important ideas have very long incubation periods --
i call this the " slow hunch . "
we 've heard a lot recently about hunch and instinct and blink-like sudden moments of clarity , but in fact , a lot of great ideas linger on , sometimes for decades , in the back of people 's minds .
they have a feeling that there 's an interesting problem , but they don 't quite have the tools yet to discover them .
they spend all this time working on certain problems , but there 's another thing lingering there that they 're interested in , but they can 't quite solve .
darwin is a great example of this .
darwin himself , in his autobiography , tells the story of coming up with the idea for natural selection as a classic " eureka ! " moment .
he 's in his study , it 's october of 1838 , and he 's reading malthus , actually , on population .
and all of a sudden , the basic algorithm of natural selection kind of pops into his head and he says , " ah , at last , i had a theory with which to work . "
that 's in his autobiography .
about a decade or two ago , a wonderful scholar named howard gruber went back and looked at darwin 's notebooks from this period .
and darwin kept these copious notebooks where he wrote down every little idea he had , every little hunch .
and what gruber found was that darwin had the full theory of natural selection for months and months and months before he had his alleged epiphany , reading malthus in october of 1838 .
there are passages where you can read it , and you think you 're reading from a darwin textbook , from the period before he has this epiphany .
and so what you realize is that darwin , in a sense , had the idea , he had the concept , but was unable of fully thinking it yet .
and that is actually how great ideas often happen ; they fade into view over long periods of time .
now the challenge for all of us is : how do you create environments that allow these ideas to have this kind of long half-life , right ?
it 's hard to go to your boss and say , " i have an excellent idea for our organization .
it will be useful in 2020 .
could you just give me some time to do that ? " now a couple of companies -- like google -- they have innovation time off , 20 percent time , where , in a sense , those are hunch-cultivating mechanisms in an organization .
but that 's a key thing .
and the other thing is to allow those hunches to connect with other people 's hunches ; that 's what often happens .
you have half of an idea , somebody else has the other half , and if you 're in the right environment , they turn into something larger than the sum of their parts .
so , in a sense , we often talk about the value of protecting intellectual property , you know , building barricades , having secretive r & d labs , patenting everything that we have , so that those ideas will remain valuable , and people will be incentivized to come up with more ideas , and the culture will be more innovative .
but i think there 's a case to be made that we should spend at least as much time , if not more , valuing the premise of connecting ideas and not just protecting them .
and i 'll leave you with this story , which i think captures a lot of these values , and it 's just wonderful kind of tale of innovation and how it happens in unlikely ways .
it 's october of 1957 , and sputnik has just launched , and we 're in laurel maryland , at the applied physics lab associated with johns hopkins university .
and it 's monday morning , and the news has just broken about this satellite that 's now orbiting the planet .
and of course , this is nerd heaven , right ?
there are all these physics geeks who are there thinking , " oh my gosh ! this is incredible . i can 't believe this has happened . "
and two of them , two 20-something researchers at the apl are there at the cafeteria table having an informal conversation with a bunch of their colleagues .
and these two guys are named guier and weiffenbach .
and they start talking , and one of them says , " hey , has anybody tried to listen for this thing ?
there 's this , you know , man-made satellite up there in outer space that 's obviously broadcasting some kind of signal .
we could probably hear it , if we tune in . " and so they ask around to a couple of their colleagues , and everybody 's like , " no , i hadn 't thought of doing that .
that 's an interesting idea . " and it turns out weiffenbach is kind of an expert in microwave reception , and he 's got a little antennae set up with an amplifier in his office .
and so guier and weiffenbach go back to weiffenbach 's office , and they start kind of noodling around -- hacking , as we might call it now .
and after a couple of hours , they actually start picking up the signal , because the soviets made sputnik very easy to track .
it was right at 20 mhz , so you could pick it up really easily , because they were afraid that people would think it was a hoax , basically .
so they made it really easy to find it .
so these two guys are sitting there listening to this signal , and people start kind of coming into the office and saying , " wow , that 's pretty cool . can i hear ? wow , that 's great . "
and before long , they think , " well jeez , this is kind of historic .
we may be the first people in the united states to be listening to this .
we should record it . " and so they bring in this big , clunky analog tape recorder and they start recording these little bleep , bleeps .
and they start writing the kind of date stamp , time stamps for each little bleep that they record .
and they they start thinking , " well gosh , you know , we 're noticing small little frequency variations here .
we could probably calculate the speed that the satellite is traveling , if we do a little basic math here using the doppler effect . "
and then they played around with it a little bit more , and they talked to a couple of their colleagues who had other kind of specialties .
and they said , " jeez , you know , we think we could actually take a look at the slope of the doppler effect to figure out the points at which the satellite is closest to our antennae and the points at which it 's farthest away .
that 's pretty cool . " and eventually , they get permission -- this is all a little side project that hadn 't been officially part of their job description .
they get permission to use the new , you know , univac computer that takes up an entire room that they 'd just gotten at the apl .
they run some more of the numbers , and at the end of about three or four weeks , turns out they have mapped the exact trajectory of this satellite around the earth , just from listening to this one little signal , going off on this little side hunch that they 'd been inspired to do over lunch one morning .
a couple weeks later their boss , frank mcclure , pulls them into the room and says , " hey , you guys , i have to ask you something about that project you were working on .
you 've figured out an unknown location of a satellite orbiting the planet from a known location on the ground .
could you go the other way ?
could you figure out an unknown location on the ground , if you knew the location of the satellite ? " and they thought about it and they said , " well , i guess maybe you could . let 's run the numbers here . "
so they went back , and they thought about it .
and they came back and said , " actually , it 'll be easier . "
and he said , " oh , that 's great .
because see , i have these new nuclear submarines that i 'm building .
and it 's really hard to figure out how to get your missile so that it will land right on top of moscow , if you don 't know where the submarine is in the middle of the pacific ocean .
so we 're thinking , we could throw up a bunch of satellites and use it to track our submarines and figure out their location in the middle of the ocean .
could you work on that problem ? " and that 's how gps was born .
30 years later , ronald reagan actually opened it up and made it an open platform that anybody could kind of build upon and anybody could come along and build new technology that would create and innovate on top of this open platform , left it open for anyone to do pretty much anything they wanted with it .
and now , i guarantee you certainly half of this room , if not more , has a device sitting in their pocket right now that is talking to one of these satellites in outer space .
and i bet you one of you , if not more , has used said device and said satellite system to locate a nearby coffeehouse somewhere in the last -- in the last day or last week , right ?
and that , i think , is a great case study , a great lesson in the power , the marvelous , kind of unplanned emergent , unpredictable power of open innovative systems .
when you build them right , they will be led to completely new directions that the creators never even dreamed of .
i mean , here you have these guys who basically thought they were just following this hunch , this little passion that had developed , then they thought they were fighting the cold war , and then it turns out they 're just helping somebody find a soy latte .
that is how innovation happens .
chance favors the connected mind .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eva _ vertes _ looks _ to _ the _ future _ of _ medicine.html
eva vertes -- only 19 when she gave this talk -- discusses her journey toward studying medicine and her drive to understand the roots of cancer and alzheimer 's .
featured , cancer , disease , health , science , technology , wunderkind
12
eva vertes looks to the future of medicine
thank you . it 's really an honor and a privilege to be here spending my last day as a teenager .
today i want to talk to you about the future , but first i 'm going to tell you a bit about the past .
my story starts way before i was born .
my grandmother was on a train to auschwitz , the death camp .
and she was going along the tracks , and the tracks split .
and somehow -- we don 't really know exactly the whole story -- but the train took the wrong track and went to a work camp rather than the death camp .
my grandmother survived and married my grandfather .
they were living in hungary , and my mother was born .
and when my mother was two years old , the hungarian revolution was raging , and they decided to escape hungary .
they got on a boat , and yet another divergence -- the boat was either going to canada or to australia .
they got on and didn 't know where they were going , and ended up in canada .
so , to make a long story short , they came to canada .
my grandmother was a chemist . she worked at the banting institute in toronto , and at 44 she died of stomach cancer . i never met my grandmother , but i carry on her name -- her exact name , eva vertes -- and i like to think i carry on her scientific passion , too .
i found this passion not far from here , actually , when i was nine years old .
my family was on a road trip and we were in the grand canyon .
and i had never been a reader when i was young -- my dad had tried me with the hardy boys ; i tried nancy drew ; i tried all that -- and i just didn 't like reading books .
and my mother bought this book when we were at the grand canyon called " the hot zone . " it was all about the outbreak of the ebola virus .
and something about it just kind of drew me towards it .
there was this big sort of bumpy-looking virus on the cover , and i just wanted to read it . i picked up that book , and as we drove from the edge of the grand canyon to big sur , and to , actually , here where we are today , in monterey , i read that book , and from when i was reading that book , i knew that i wanted to have a life in medicine .
i wanted to be like the explorers i 'd read about in the book , who went into the jungles of africa , went into the research labs and just tried to figure out what this deadly virus was . so from that moment on , i read every medical book i could get my hands on , and i just loved it so much .
i was a passive observer of the medical world .
it wasn 't until i entered high school that i thought , " maybe now , you know -- being a big high school kid -- i can maybe become an active part of this big medical world . "
i was 14 , and i emailed professors at the local university to see if maybe i could go work in their lab . and hardly anyone responded .
but i mean , why would they respond to a 14-year-old , anyway ?
and i got to go talk to one professor , dr. jacobs , who accepted me into the lab .
at that time , i was really interested in neuroscience and wanted to do a research project in neurology -- specifically looking at the effects of heavy metals on the developing nervous system .
so i started that , and worked in his lab for a year , and found the results that i guess you 'd expect to find when you feed fruit flies heavy metals -- that it really , really impaired the nervous system .
the spinal cord had breaks . the neurons were crossing in every which way .
and from then i wanted to look not at impairment , but at prevention of impairment .
so that 's what led me to alzheimer 's . i started reading about alzheimer 's and tried to familiarize myself with the research , and at the same time when i was in the -- i was reading in the medical library one day , and i read this article about something called " purine derivatives . "
and they seemed to have cell growth-promoting properties .
and being naive about the whole field , i kind of thought , " oh , you have cell death in alzheimer 's which is causing the memory deficit , and then you have this compound -- purine derivatives -- that are promoting cell growth . "
and so i thought , " maybe if it can promote cell growth , it can inhibit cell death , too . "
and so that 's the project that i pursued for that year , and it 's continuing now as well , and found that a specific purine derivative called " guanidine " had inhibited the cell growth by approximately 60 percent .
so i presented those results at the international science fair , which was just one of the most amazing experiences of my life .
and there i was awarded " best in the world in medicine , " which allowed me to get in , or at least get a foot in the door of the big medical world .
and from then on , since i was now in this huge exciting world , i wanted to explore it all . i wanted it all at once , but knew i couldn 't really get that .
and i stumbled across something called " cancer stem cells . "
and this is really what i want to talk to you about today -- about cancer .
at first when i heard of cancer stem cells , i didn 't really know how to put the two together . i 'd heard of stem cells , and i 'd heard of them as the panacea of the future -- the therapy of many diseases to come in the future , perhaps .
but i 'd heard of cancer as the most feared disease of our time , so how did the good and bad go together ?
last summer i worked at stanford university , doing some research on cancer stem cells .
and while i was doing this , i was reading the cancer literature , trying to -- again -- familiarize myself with this new medical field .
and it seemed that tumors actually begin from a stem cell .
this fascinated me . the more i read , the more i looked at cancer differently and almost became less fearful of it .
it seems that cancer is a direct result to injury .
if you smoke , you damage your lung tissue , and then lung cancer arises .
if you drink , you damage your liver , and then liver cancer occurs .
and it was really interesting -- there were articles correlating if you have a bone fracture , and then bone cancer arises .
because what stem cells are -- they 're these phenomenal cells that really have the ability to differentiate into any type of tissue .
so , if the body is sensing that you have damage to an organ and then it 's initiating cancer , it 's almost as if this is a repair response .
and the cancer , the body is saying the lung tissue is damaged , we need to repair the lung . and cancer is originating in the lung trying to repair -- because you have this excessive proliferation of these remarkable cells that really have the potential to become lung tissue .
but it 's almost as if the body has originated this ingenious response , but can 't quite control it .
it hasn 't yet become fine-tuned enough to finish what has been initiated .
so this really , really fascinated me .
and i really think that we can 't think about cancer -- let alone any disease -- in such black-and-white terms .
if we eliminate cancer the way we 're trying to do now , with chemotherapy and radiation , we 're bombarding the body or the cancer with toxins , or with radiation , trying to kill it . it 's almost as if we 're getting back to this starting point .
we 're removing the cancer cells , but we 're revealing the previous damage that the body has tried to fix .
shouldn 't we think about manipulation , rather than elimination ?
if somehow we can cause these cells to differentiate -- to become bone tissue , lung tissue , liver tissue , whatever that cancer has been put there to do -- it would be a repair process . we 'd end up better than we were before cancer .
so , this really changed my view of looking at cancer .
and while i was reading all these articles about cancer , it seemed that the articles -- a lot of them -- focused on , you know , the genetics of breast cancer , and the genesis and the progression of breast cancer -- tracking the cancer through the body , tracing where it is , where it goes .
but it struck me that i 'd never heard of cancer of the heart , or cancer of any skeletal muscle for that matter .
and skeletal muscle constitutes 50 percent of our body , or over 50 percent of our body . and so at first i kind of thought , " well , maybe there 's some obvious explanation why skeletal muscle doesn 't get cancer -- at least not that i know of . "
so , i looked further into it , found as many articles as i could , and it was amazing -- because it turned out that it was very rare .
some articles even went as far as to say that skeletal muscle tissue is resistant to cancer , and furthermore , not only to cancer , but of metastases going to skeletal muscle .
and what metastases are is when the tumor -- when a piece -- breaks off and travels through the blood stream and goes to a different organ . that 's what a metastasis is .
it 's the part of cancer that is the most dangerous .
if cancer was localized , we could likely remove it , or somehow -- you know , it 's contained . it 's very contained .
but once it starts moving throughout the body , that 's when it becomes deadly .
so the fact that not only did cancer not seem to originate in skeletal muscles , but cancer didn 't seem to go to skeletal muscle -- there seemed to be something here .
so these articles were saying , you know , " skeletal -- metastasis to skeletal muscle -- is very rare . "
but it was left at that . no one seemed to be asking why .
so i decided to ask why . at first -- the first thing i did was i emailed some professors who specialized in skeletal muscle physiology , and pretty much said , " hey , it seems like cancer doesn 't really go to skeletal muscle . is there a reason for this ? " and a lot of the replies i got were that muscle is terminally differentiated tissue .
meaning that you have muscle cells , but they 're not dividing , so it doesn 't seem like a good target for cancer to hijack .
but then again , this fact that the metastases didn 't go to skeletal muscle made that seem unlikely .
and furthermore , that nervous tissue -- brain -- gets cancer , and brain cells are also terminally differentiated .
so i decided to ask why . and here 's some of , i guess , my hypotheses that i 'll be starting to investigate this may at the sylvester cancer institute in miami .
and i guess i 'll keep investigating until i get the answers .
but i know that in science , once you get the answers , inevitably you 're going to have more questions .
so i guess you could say that i 'll probably be doing this for the rest of my life .
some of my hypotheses are that when you first think about skeletal muscle , there 's a lot of blood vessels going to skeletal muscle .
and the first thing that makes me think is that blood vessels are like highways for the tumor cells .
tumor cells can travel through the blood vessels .
and you think , the more highways there are in a tissue , the more likely it is to get cancer or to get metastases .
so first of all i thought , you know , " wouldn 't it be favorable to cancer getting to skeletal muscle ? " and as well , cancer tumors require a process called angiogenesis , which is really , the tumor recruits the blood vessels to itself to supply itself with nutrients so it can grow .
without angiogenesis , the tumor remains the size of a pinpoint and it 's not harmful .
so angiogenesis is really a central process to the pathogenesis of cancer .
and one article that really stood out to me when i was just reading about this , trying to figure out why cancer doesn 't go to skeletal muscle , was that it had reported 16 percent of micro-metastases to skeletal muscle upon autopsy .
16 percent ! meaning that there were these pinpoint tumors in skeletal muscle , but only .16 percent of actual metastases -- suggesting that maybe skeletal muscle is able to control the angiogenesis , is able to control the tumors recruiting these blood vessels .
we use skeletal muscles so much . it 's the one portion of our body -- our heart 's always beating . we 're always moving our muscles .
is it possible that muscle somehow intuitively knows that it needs this blood supply ? it needs to be constantly contracting , so therefore it 's almost selfish . it 's grabbing its blood vessels for itself .
therefore , when a tumor comes into skeletal muscle tissue , it can 't get a blood supply , and can 't grow .
so this suggests that maybe if there is an anti-angiogenic factor in skeletal muscle -- or perhaps even more , an angiogenic routing factor , so it can actually direct where the blood vessels grow --
this could be a potential future therapy for cancer .
and another thing that 's really interesting is that there 's this whole -- the way tumors move throughout the body , it 's a very complex system -- and there 's something called the chemokine network .
and chemokines are essentially chemical attractants , and they 're the stop and go signals for cancer .
so a tumor expresses chemokine receptors , and another organ -- a distant organ somewhere in the body -- will have the corresponding chemokines , and the tumor will see these chemokines and migrate towards it .
is it possible that skeletal muscle doesn 't express this type of molecules ?
and the other really interesting thing is that when skeletal muscle -- there 's been several reports that when skeletal muscle is injured , that 's what correlates with metastases going to skeletal muscle .
and , furthermore , when skeletal muscle is injured , that 's what causes chemokines -- these signals saying , " cancer , you can come to me , " the " go signs " for the tumors -- it causes them to highly express these chemokines .
so , there 's so much interplay here .
i mean , there are so many possibilities for why tumors don 't go to skeletal muscle .
but it seems like by investigating , by attacking cancer , by searching where cancer is not , there has got to be something -- there 's got to be something -- that 's making this tissue resistant to tumors .
and can we utilize -- can we take this property , this compound , this receptor , whatever it is that 's controlling these anti-tumor properties and apply it to cancer therapy in general ?
now , one thing that kind of ties the resistance of skeletal muscle to cancer -- to the cancer as a repair response gone out of control in the body -- is that skeletal muscle has a factor in it called " myod . "
and what myod essentially does is , it causes cells to differentiate into muscle cells . so this compound , myod , has been tested on a lot of different cell types and been shown to actually convert this variety of cell types into skeletal muscle cells .
so , is it possible that the tumor cells are going to the skeletal muscle tissue , but once in contact inside the skeletal muscle tissue , myod acts upon these tumor cells and causes them to become skeletal muscle cells ?
maybe tumor cells are being disguised as skeletal muscle cells , and this is why it seems as if it is so rare .
it 's not harmful ; it has just repaired the muscle .
muscle is constantly being used -- constantly being damaged .
if every time we tore a muscle or every time we stretched a muscle or moved in a wrong way , cancer occurred -- i mean , everybody would have cancer almost .
and i hate to say that . but it seems as though muscle cell , possibly because of all its use , has adapted faster than other body tissues to respond to injury , to fine-tune this repair response and actually be able to finish the process which the body wants to finish . i really believe that the human body is very , very smart , and we can 't counteract something the body is saying to do .
it 's different when a bacteria comes into the body -- that 's a foreign object -- we want that out .
but when the body is actually initiating a process and we 're calling it a disease , it doesn 't seem as though elimination is the right solution . so even to go from there , it 's possible , although far-fetched , that in the future we could almost think of cancer being used as a therapy .
if those diseases where tissues are deteriorating -- for example alzheimer 's , where the brain , the brain cells , die and we need to restore new brain cells , new functional brain cells -- what if we could , in the future , use cancer ? a tumor -- put it in the brain and cause it to differentiate into brain cells ?
that 's a very far-fetched idea , but i really believe that it may be possible .
these cells are so versatile , these cancer cells are so versatile -- we just have to manipulate them in the right way .
and again , some of these may be far-fetched , but i figured if there 's anywhere to present far-fetched ideas , it 's here at ted , so thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / rick _ smolan _ tells _ the _ story _ of _ a _ girl.html
photographer rick smolan tells the unforgettable story of a young amerasian girl , a fateful photograph , and an adoption saga with a twist .
united states , art , children , collaboration , global issues , media , photography , storytelling
297
rick smolan tells the story of a girl
some of you have heard the story before , but , in fact , there 's somebody in the audience who 's never heard this story -- in front of an audience -- before , so i 'm a little more nervous than i normally am telling this story .
i used to be a photographer for many years .
in 1978 , i was working for time magazine , and i was given a three-day assignment to photograph amerasian children , children who had been fathered by american gis all over southeast asia , and then abandoned --
40,000 children all over asia .
i had never heard the word amerasian before .
i spent a few days photographing children in different countries , and like a lot of photographers and a lot of journalists , i always hope that when my pictures were published , they might actually have an effect on a situation , instead of just documenting it .
so , i was so disturbed by what i saw , and i was so unhappy with the article that ran afterwards , that i decided i would take six months off .
i was 28 years old .
i decided i would find six children in different countries , and actually go spend some time with the kids , and try to tell their story a little bit better than i thought i had done for time magazine .
in the course of doing the story , i was looking for children who hadn 't been photographed before , and the pearl buck foundation told me that they worked with a lot of americans who were donating money to help some of these kids .
and a man told me , who ran the pearl buck foundation in korea , that there was a young girl , who was 11 years old , being raised by her grandmother .
and the grandmother had never let any westerners ever see her .
every time any westerners came to the village , she hid the girl .
and of course , i was immediately intrigued .
i saw photographs of her , and i thought i wanted to go .
and the guy just told me , " there 's no way . this grandmother won 't even -- you know , there 's no way she 's ever going to let you meet this girl that 's she 's raising . " i took a translator with me , and went to this village , found the grandmother , sat down with her .
and to my astonishment , she agreed to let me photograph her granddaughter .
and i was paying for this myself , so i asked the translator if it would be ok if i stayed for the week .
i had a sleeping bag .
the family had a small shed on the side of the house , so i said , " could i sleep in my sleeping bag in the evenings ? "
and i just told the little girl , whose name was hyun-sook lee , that if i ever did anything to embarrass her -- she didn 't speak a word of english , although she looked very american -- she could just put up her hand and say , " stop , "
and i would stop taking pictures .
and then , my translator left .
so there i was , i couldn 't speak a word of korean , and this is the first night i met hyun-sook .
her mother was still alive .
her mother was not raising her , her grandmother was raising her .
and what struck me immediately was how in love the two of these people were .
the grandmother was incredibly fond , deeply in love with this little girl .
they slept on the floor at night .
the way they heat their homes in korea is to put bricks under the floors , so the heat actually radiates from underneath the floor .
hyun-sook was 11 years old .
i had photographed , as i said , a lot of these kids .
hyun-sook was in fact the fifth child that i found to photograph .
and almost universally , amongst all the kids , they were really psychologically damaged by having been made fun of , ridiculed , picked on and been rejected .
and korea was probably the place i found to be the worst for these kids .
and what struck me immediately in meeting hyun-sook was how confident she appeared to be , how happy she seemed to be in her own skin .
and remember this picture , because i 'm going to show you another picture later , but you can see how much she looks like her grandmother , although she looks so western .
i decided to follow her to school .
this is the first morning i stayed with her .
this is on the way to school .
this is the morning assembly outside her school .
and i noticed that she was clowning around .
when the teachers would ask questions , she 'd be the first person to raise her hand .
again , not at all shy or withdrawn , or anything like the other children that i 'd photographed .
again , the first one to go to the blackboard to answer questions .
getting in trouble for whispering into her best friend 's ears in the middle of class .
and one of the other things that i said to her through the translator -- again , this thing about saying stop -- was to not pay attention to me .
and so , she really just completely ignored me most of the time .
i noticed that at recess , she was the girl who picked the other girls to be on her team .
it was very obvious , from the very beginning , that she was a leader .
this is on the way home .
and that 's north korea up along the hill .
this is up along the dmz .
they would actually cover the windows every night , so that light couldn 't be seen , because the south korean government has said for years that the north koreans may invade at any time .
so there 's always this -- the closer you were to north korea , the more terrifying it was .
very often at school , i 'd be taking pictures , and she would whisper into her girlfriends ' ears , and then look at me and say , " stop . "
and i would stand at attention , and all the girls would crack up , and it was sort of a little joke .
the end of the week came and my translator came back , because i 'd asked her to come back , so i could formally thank the grandmother and hyun-sook .
and in the course of the grandmother talking to the translator , the grandmother started crying .
and i said to my translator , " what 's going on , why is she crying ? "
and she spoke to the grandmother for a moment , and then she started getting tears in her eyes .
and i said , " ok , what did i do ? what 's going on ? why is everyone crying ? " and the translator said , " the grandmother says that she thinks she 's dying , and she wants to know if you would take hyun-sook to america with you . "
and i said , " i 'm 28 years old , and i live in hotels , and i 'm not married . " i mean i had fallen in love with this girl , but i -- you know , it was , like , emotionally i was about 12 years old .
if you know of photographers , the joke is it 's the finest form of delayed adolescence ever invented . " sorry , i have to go on an assignment , i 'll be back " --
and then you never come back .
so , i asked the translator why she thought she was dying .
can i get her to a hospital ? could i pay to get her a doctor ?
and she refused any help at all .
and so , when i got outside , i actually gave the translator some money and said , " please go back and see if you can do something . " and i gave the grandmother my business card .
and i said , " if you 're serious , i will try to find a family for her . "
and i immediately wrote a letter to my best friends in atlanta , georgia , who had an 11-year-old son .
and my best friend had mistakenly one day said something about wishing he had another child .
so here my friends gene and gail had not heard from me in about a year ,
and suddenly i was calling , saying " i 'm in korea , and i 've met this extraordinary girl . " and i said , " the grandmother thinks she 's sick , but i think maybe we would have to bring the grandmother over also . " and i said , " i 'll pay for the ... " i mean , i had this whole sort of picture .
so anyway , i left .
and my friends actually said they were very interested in adopting her .
and i said , " look , i think i 'll scare the grandmother to death , if i actually write to her and tell her that you 're willing to adopt her , i want to go back and talk to her . " but i was off on assignment .
i figured i 'd come back in a couple of weeks and talk to the grandmother .
and on christmas day , i was in bangkok with a group of photographers and got a telegram -- back in those days , you got telegrams -- from time magazine saying someone in korea had died , and left their child in a will to me .
did i know anything about this ?
because i hadn 't told them what i was doing , because i was so upset with the story they 'd run .
so , i went back to korea , and i went back to hyun-sook 's village , and she was gone .
and the house that i had spent time in was empty .
it was incredibly cold .
no one in the village would tell me where hyun-sook was , because the grandmother had always hidden her from westerners .
and they had no idea about this request that she 'd made of me .
so i finally found myung sung , her best friend that she used to play with after school every day .
and myung sung , under some pressure from me and the translator , gave us an address on the outside of seoul .
and i went to that address and knocked on the door , and a man answered the door .
it was not a very nice area of seoul , as there were mud streets outside of it .
and i knocked on the door , and hyun-sook answered the door , and her eyes were bloodshot , and she seemed to be in shock . she didn 't recognize me -- there was no recognition whatsoever .
and this man came to the door and kind of barked something in korean .
and i said to the translator , " what did he say ? "
and she said , " he wants to know who you are . "
and i said , " well , tell him that i am a photographer . "
i started explaining who i was , and he interrupted .
and she said , " he says he knows who you are , what do you want ? "
i said , " well , tell him that i was asked by this little girl 's grandmother to find a family for her . " and he said , " i 'm her uncle , she 's fine , you can leave now . "
so i was -- you know , the door was being slammed in my face ,
it 's incredibly cold , and i 'm trying to think , " what would the hero do in a movie , if i was writing this as a movie script ? " so i said , " listen , it 's really cold , i 've come a very long way , do you mind if i just come in for a minute ? i 'm freezing . " so the guy kind of reluctantly let us in and we sat down on the floor .
and as we started talking , i saw him yell something , and hyun-sook came and brought us some food .
and i had this whole mental picture of , sort of like cinderella .
i sort of had this picture of this incredibly wonderful , bright , happy little child , who now appeared to be very withdrawn , being enslaved by this family .
and i was really appalled , and i couldn 't figure out what to do .
and the more i tried talking to him , the less friendly he was getting .
so i finally decided , i said " look , " -- this is all through the translator , because , this is all , you know , i don 't speak a word of korean -- and i said , " look , i 'm really glad that hyun-sook has a family to live with .
i was very worried about her .
i made a promise to her grandmother , your mother , that i would find a family , and now i 'm so happy that you 're going to take care of her . " i said , " but you know , i bought an airline ticket , and i 'm stuck here for a week . " and i said , " i 'm staying in a hotel downtown .
would you like to come and have lunch tomorrow ?
and you can practice your english . " because he told me -- i was trying to ask him questions about himself .
and so i went to the hotel , and i found two older amerasians .
a girl whose mother had been a prostitute , and she was a prostitute , and a boy who 'd been in and out of jail .
and i said to them , " look , there 's a little girl who has a tiny chance of getting out of here and going to america . " i said , " i don 't know if it 's the right decision or not , but i would like you to come to lunch tomorrow and tell the uncle what it 's like to walk down the street , what people say to you , what you do for a living .
and just -- i want him to understand what happens if she stays here .
and i could be wrong , i don 't know , but i wish you would come tomorrow . " so , these two came to lunch , and we got thrown out of the restaurant .
they were yelling at him , they were -- it got to be really ugly .
and we went outside , and he was just furious .
and i knew i had totally blown this whole thing .
here i was again , trying to figure out what to do .
and he started yelling at me , and i said to the translator , " ok , tell him to calm down , what is he saying ? "
and she said , " well , he 's saying , ' who the hell are you to walk into my house , some rich american with your cameras around your neck , accusing me of enslaving my niece ?
this is my niece , i love her , she 's my sister 's daughter .
who the hell are you to accuse me of something like this ? ' " and i said , you know , " look , " i said , " you 're absolutely right .
i don 't pretend to understand what 's going on here . " i said , " all i know is , i 've been photographing a lot of these children . "
i said , " i 'm in love with your niece , i think she 's an incredibly special child . " and i said , " look , i will fly my friends over here from the united states if you want to meet them , to see if you approve of them .
i just think that -- what little i know about the situation , she has very little chance here of having the kind of life that you probably would like her to have . " so , everyone told me afterwards that inviting the prospective parents over was , again , the stupidest thing i could have possibly done , because who 's ever good enough for your relative ?
but he invited me to come to a ceremony they were having that day for her grandmother .
and they actually take items of clothing and photographs , and they burn them as part of the ritual .
and you can see how different she looks just in three months .
this was now , i think , february , early february .
and the pictures before were taken in september .
well , there was an american marine priest that i had met in the course of doing the story , who had 75 children living in his house .
he had three women helping him take care of these kids .
and so i suggested to the uncle that we go down and meet father keene , to find out how the adoption process worked .
because i wanted him to feel like this was all being done very much above board .
so , this is on the way down to the orphanage .
this is father keene . he 's just a wonderful guy .
he had kids from all over korea living there , and he would find families for these kids .
this is a social worker interviewing hyun-sook .
now , i had always thought she was completely untouched by all of this , because the grandmother , to me , appeared to be sort of the village wise woman , and the person everybody -- throughout the day , i noticed people kept coming to visit her grandmother .
and i always had this mental picture that even though they may have been one of the poorer families in the village , they were one of the most respected families in the village .
and i always felt that the grandmother had kind of demanded , and insisted , that the villagers treat hyun-sook with the same respect they treated her .
hyun-sook stayed at father keene 's , and her uncle agreed to let her stay there until the adoption went through .
he actually agreed to the adoption .
and i went off on assignment and came back a week later , and father keene said , " i 've got to talk to you about hyun-sook . "
i kind of said , " oh god , now what ? "
and he takes me into this room , and he closes the door , and he says , " i have 75 children here in the orphanage , and it 's total bedlam . "
and there 's clothes , and there 's kids , and , you know , there 's three adults and 75 kids -- you can imagine . and he said , " the second day she was here she made up a list of all of the names of the older kids and the younger kids .
and she assigned one of the older kids to each of the younger kids .
and then she set up a work detail list of who cleaned the orphanage on what day . " and he said , " she 's telling me that i 'm messy , and i have to clean up my room . "
and he said , " i don 't know who raised her , but , " he said , " she 's running the orphanage , and she 's been here three days . " this was movie day -- that she organized -- where all the kids went to the movies .
a lot of the kids who had been adopted actually wrote back to the other kids , telling them about what their life was like with their new families .
so , it was a really big deal when the letters showed up .
this is a woman who is now working at the orphanage , whose son had been adopted .
gene and gail started studying korean the moment they had gotten my first letter .
they really wanted to be able to welcome hyun-sook into their family .
and one of the things father keene told me when i came back from one of these trips -- hyun-sook had chosen the name natasha , which i understood was from her watching a " rocky and bullwinkle " cartoon on the american air force station .
this may be one of those myth-buster things that we 'll have to clear up here , in a minute .
so , my friend gene flew over with his son , tim .
gail couldn 't come .
and they spent a lot of time huddled over a dictionary .
and this was gene showing the uncle where atlanta was on the map , where he lived .
this is the uncle signing the adoption papers .
now , we went out to dinner that night to celebrate .
the uncle went back to his family , and natasha and tim and gene and i went out to dinner .
and gene was showing natasha how to use a knife and fork , and then natasha was returning the utensil lessons .
we went back to our hotel room , and gene was showing natasha also where atlanta was .
this is the third night we were in korea .
the first night we 'd gotten a room for the kids right next to us .
now , i 'd been staying in this room for about three months -- it was a little 15-story korean hotel .
so , the second night , we didn 't keep the kids ' room , because we went down and slept on the floor with all the kids at the orphanage .
and the third night , we came back , we 'd just gone out to dinner , where you saw the pictures , and we got to the front desk and the guy at the front desk said , " there 's no other free rooms on your floor tonight , so if you want to put the kids five floors below you , there 's a room there . " and gene and i looked at each other and said , " no , we don 't want two 11-year-olds five floors away . "
so , his son said , " dad , i have a sleeping bag , i 'll sleep on the floor . "
and i said , " yeah , i have one too . "
so , tim and i slept on the floor , natasha got one bed , gene got the other -- kids pass out , it 's been very exciting for three days .
we 're lying in bed , and gene and i are talking about how cool we are .
we said , " that was so great , we saved this little girl 's life . "
we were just like , you know , ah , just full of ourselves .
and we fall asleep -- and i 've been in this room , you know , for a couple of months now .
and they always overheat the hotels in korea terribly , so during the day i always left the window open .
and then , at night , about midnight , they turn the heat off in the hotel . so at about 1 a.m. , the whole room would be like 20 below zero , and i 'd get up .
i 'd been doing this every night i 'd been there .
so , sure enough , it 's one o 'clock , room 's freezing , i go to close the window , and i hear people shouting outside , and i thought , " oh , the bars must have just gotten out . "
and i don 't speak korean , but i 'm hearing these voices , and i 'm not hearing anger , i 'm hearing terror .
so , i open the window , and i look out , and there 's flames coming up the side of our hotel , and the hotel 's on fire .
so , i run over to gene , and i wake him up , and i say , " gene , don 't freak out , i think the hotel 's on fire . "
and now there 's smoke and flames coming by our windows -- we 're on the eleventh floor .
so , the two of us were just like , " oh my god , oh my god . "
so , we 're trying to get natasha up , and we can 't talk to her .
and you know what kids are like when they 've been asleep for like an hour , it 's like they took five valiums -- you know , they 're all over the place .
and we can 't talk to her .
i remember his son had the l.l. bean bootlaces , and we 're trying to do up his laces .
so , we try to get to the door , and we run to the door , and we open the door and it 's like walking into a blast furnace .
there 's people screaming , there 's the sound of glass breaking , there 's these weird thumps .
and the whole room filled with smoke in about two seconds .
and gene turns around and says , " we 're not going to make it . " and he closes the door , and the whole room is now filled with smoke .
we 're all choking , and there 's smoke pouring through the vents , under the doors . there 's people screaming .
i just remember this unbelievable , just utter chaos .
i remember sitting near the bed , and i was just so -- i had two overwhelming feelings .
one was absolute terror -- it 's like , " oh , please god , i just want to wake up . this has got to be a nightmare , this can 't be happening . please , i just want to wake up , it 's got to be a nightmare . " and the other is unbelievable guilt .
here i 've been , playing god with my friends ' lives , my friends ' son , with natasha 's life , and this what you get when you try playing god , is you hurt people .
i remember just being so frightened and terrified .
and gene , who 's lying on the floor , says , " man , we 've got to soak towels . " i said , " what ? "
he says , " we 've got to soak towels . we 're going to die from the smoke . "
so , we ran to the bathroom , and got towels , and put them over our faces , and the kids faces .
then he said , " do you have gaffer 's tape ? "
i said , " what ? " he said , " do you have gaffer 's tape ? "
i said , " yeah , somewhere in my halliburton . "
he says , " we 've got to stop the smoke . "
he said , " that 's all we can do , we 've got to stop the smoke . "
i mean , gene -- thank god for gene .
so , we put the room service menus over the vents in the wall , we put blankets at the bottom of the door , we put the kids on the windowsill to try to get some air . and there was a building , a new building , going up , that was being built right outside , across the street from our hotel .
and there , in the building were photographers waiting for people to jump .
eleven people ended up dying in the fire .
five people jumped and died , other people were killed by the smoke .
and there 's this loud thumping on the door after about 45 minutes in all this , and people were shouting in korean .
and i remember , natasha didn 't want us opening the door -- sorry , i was trying not to open the door , because we 'd spent so much time barricading the room .
i didn 't know who it was , i didn 't know what they wanted , and natasha could tell they were firemen trying to get us out .
i remember a sort of a tussle at the door , trying to get the door open .
in any case , 12 hours later , i mean , they put us in the lobby .
gene ended up using his coat , and his fist in the coat , to break open a liquor cabinet .
people were lying on the floor .
it was one of just the most horrifying nights .
and then 12 hours later , we rented a car , as we had planned to , and drove back to natasha 's village .
and we kept saying , " do you realize we were dying in a hotel fire , like eight hours ago ? "
it 's so weird how life just goes on .
natasha wanted to introduce her brother and father to all the villagers , and the day we showed up turned out to be a 60-year-old man 's birthday . this guy 's 60 years old .
so it turned into a dual celebration , because natasha was the first person from this village ever to go to the united states .
so , these are the greenhouse tents .
this is the elders teaching gene their dances .
we drank a lot of rice wine . we were both so drunk , i couldn 't believe it .
this is the last picture before gene and tim headed back .
the adoption people told us it was going to take a year for the adoption to go through .
like , what could you do for a year ?
so i found out the name of every official on both the korean and american side , and i photographed them , and told them how famous they were going to be when this book was done .
and four months later , the adoption papers came through .
this is saying goodbye to everybody at the orphanage .
this is father keene with natasha at the bus stop .
her great aunt at the airport .
i had a wonderful deal with cathay pacific airlines for many years , where they gave me free passes on all their airlines in return for photography .
it was like the ultimate perk .
and the pilot , i actually knew -- because they used to let me sit in the jump seat , to tell you how long ago this was .
this is a tri-star , and so they let natasha actually sit in the jump seat .
and the pilot , jeff cowley , actually went back and adopted one of the other kids at the orphanage after meeting natasha .
this is 28 hours later in atlanta . it 's a very long flight .
just to make things even crazier , gail , natasha 's new mom , was three days away from giving birth to her own daughter .
so you know , if you were writing this , you 'd say , " no , we 've got to write the script differently . "
this is the first night showing natasha her new cousins and uncles and aunts .
gene and gail know everyone in atlanta -- they 're the most social couple imaginable .
so , at this point , natasha doesn 't speak a word of english , other than what little father keene taught her .
this is kylie , her sister , who 's now a doctor , on the right .
this is a deal i had with natasha , which is that when we got to atlanta she could take -- she could cut off my beard .
she never liked it very much .
she learned english in three months .
she entered seventh grade at her own age level .
pledge of allegiance for the first time .
this is her cooking teacher .
natasha told me that a lot of the kids thought she was stuck up , because they would talk to her and she wouldn 't answer , and they didn 't realize she didn 't actually speak english very well , in the beginning .
but what i noticed , again as an observer , was she was choosing who was going to be on her team ,
and seemed to be very popular very , very quickly .
now , remember the picture , how much she looked like her grandmother , at the beginning ?
people were always telling natasha how much she looks like her mother , gail .
this is a tense moment in the first football game , i think .
and kylie -- i mean , it was almost like kylie was her own child .
she 's being baptized .
now , a lot of parents , when they adopt , actually want to erase their children 's history .
and gail and gene did the complete opposite .
they were studying korean ; they bought korean clothes .
gene even did a little tile work in the kitchen , which was that , " once upon a time , there was a beautiful girl that came from hills of korea to live happily ever after in atlanta . "
she hates this picture -- it was her first job .
she bought a bright red karmann ghia with the money she made working at burger king .
the captain of the cheerleaders .
beauty pageant .
used to do their christmas card every year .
gene 's been restoring this car for a million years .
kodak hired natasha to be a translator for them at the olympics in korea .
her future husband , jeff , was working for canon cameras , and met natasha at the olympic village .
this is her first trip back to korea , so there 's her uncle .
this is her half-sister .
she went back to the village . that 's her best friend 's mother .
and i always thought that was a very annie hall kind of outfit .
it 's just , you know , it was just so interesting , just to watch -- this is her mother in the background there .
this is natasha 's wedding day .
gene is looking a little older .
this is sydney , who 's going to be three years old in a couple of days .
and there 's evan .
natasha , would you just come up , for a second , just maybe to say hello to everybody ?
natasha 's actually never heard me tell the story .
i mean , she -- you know , we 've looked at the pictures together .
natasha : i 've seen pictures millions of times , but today was the first time i 'm actually seeing him give the whole presentation .
i started crying .
rick smolan : i 'm sure there 's about 40 things she 's going to tell me ,
" that wasn 't what happened , that wasn 't what you said . " natasha : later , i 'll do that later .
rs : anyway , thank you , mike and richard , so much for letting us tell the story .
thank you all of you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / dimitar _ sasselov _ how _ we _ found _ hundreds _ of _ potential _ earth _ like _ planets.html
astronomer dimitar sasselov and his colleagues search for earth-like planets that may , someday , help us answer centuries-old questions about the origin and existence of biological life elsewhere . preliminary results show that they have found 706 " candidates " -- some of which further research may prove to be planets with earth-like geochemical characteristics .
astronomy , biology , life , technology , universe
920
dimitar sasselov : how we found hundreds of potential earth-like planets
well , indeed , i 'm very , very lucky .
my talk essentially got written by three historic events that happened within days of each other in the last two months -- seemingly unrelated , but as you will see , actually all having to do with the story i want to tell you today .
the first one was actually a funeral -- to be more precise , a reburial .
on may 22nd , there was a hero 's reburial in frombork , poland of the 16th-century astronomer who actually changed the world .
he did that , literally , by replacing the earth with the sun in the center of the solar system ,
and then with this simple-looking act , he actually launched a scientific and technological revolution , which many call the copernican revolution .
now that was , ironically , and very befittingly , the way we found his grave .
as it was the custom of the time , copernicus was actually simply buried in an unmarked grave , together with 14 others in that cathedral .
dna analysis , one of the hallmarks of the scientific revolution of the last 400 years that he started , was the way we found which set of bones actually belonged to the person who read all those astronomical books which were filled with leftover hair that was copernicus ' hair -- obviously not many other people bothered to read these books later on .
that match was unambiguous .
the dna matched ,
and we know that this was indeed nicolaus copernicus .
now , the connection between biology and dna and life is very tantalizing when you talk about copernicus because , even back then , his followers very quickly made the logical step to ask : if the earth is just a planet , then what about planets around other stars ?
what about the idea of the plurality of the worlds , about life on other planets ?
in fact , i 'm borrowing here from one of those very popular books of the time .
and at the time , people actually answered that question positively : " yes . "
but there was no evidence .
and here begins 400 years of frustration , of unfulfilled dreams -- the dreams of galileo , giordano bruno , many others -- which never led to the answer of those very basic questions which humanity has asked all the time .
" what is life ? what is the origin of life ?
are we alone ? "
and that especially happened in the last 10 years , at the end of the 20th century , when the beautiful developments due to molecular biology , understanding the code of life , dna , all of that seemed to actually put us , not closer , but further apart from answering those basic questions .
now , the good news .
a lot has happened in the last few years ,
and let 's start with the planets .
let 's start with the old copernican question : are there earths around other stars ?
and as we already heard , there is a way in which we are trying , and now able , to answer that question .
it 's a new telescope .
our team , befittingly i think , named it after one of those dreamers of the copernican time , johannes kepler ,
and that telescope 's sole purpose is to go out , find the planets that orbit other stars in our galaxy , and tell us how often do planets like our own earth happen to be out there .
the telescope is actually built similarly to the , well-known to you , hubble space telescope ,
except it does have an additional lens -- a wide-field lens , as you would call it as a photographer .
and if , in the next couple of months , you walk out in the early evening and look straight up and place you palm like this , you will actually be looking at the field of the sky where this telescope is searching for planets day and night , without any interruption , for the next four years .
the way we do that , actually , is with a method , which we call the transit method .
it 's actually mini-eclipses that occur when a planet passes in front of its star .
not all of the planets will be fortuitously oriented for us to be able do that , but if you have a million stars , you 'll find enough planets .
and as you see on this animation , what kepler is going to detect is just the dimming of the light from the star .
we are not going to see the image of the star and the planet as this .
all the stars for kepler are just points of light .
but we learn a lot from that : not only that there is a planet there , but we also learn its size .
how much of the light is being dimmed depends on how big the planet is .
we learn about its orbit , the period of its orbit and so on .
so , what have we learned ?
well , let me try to walk you through what we actually see and so you understand the news that i 'm here to tell you today .
what kepler does is discover a lot of candidates , which we then follow up and find as planets , confirm as planets .
it basically tells us this is the distribution of planets in size .
there are small planets , there are bigger planets , there are big planets , okay .
so we count many , many such planets , and they have different sizes .
we do that in our solar system .
in fact , even back during the ancients , the solar system in that sense would look on a diagram like this .
there will be the smaller planets , and there will be the big planets , even back to the time of epicurus and then of course copernicus and his followers .
up until recently , that was the solar system -- four earth-like planets with small radius , smaller than about two times the size of the earth --
and that was of course mercury , venus , mars , and of course the earth , and then the two big , giant planets .
then the copernican revolution brought in telescopes ,
and of course three more planets were discovered .
now the total planet number in our solar system was nine .
the small planets dominated , and there was a certain harmony to that , which actually copernicus was very happy to note , and kepler was one of the big proponents of .
so now we have pluto to join the numbers of small planets .
but up until , literally , 15 years ago , that was all we knew about planets .
and that 's what the frustration was .
the copernican dream was unfulfilled .
finally , 15 years ago , the technology came to the point where we could discover a planet around another star , and we actually did pretty well .
in the next 15 years , almost 500 planets were discovered orbiting other stars , with different methods .
unfortunately , as you can see , there was a very different picture .
there was of course an explanation for it :
we only see the big planets ,
so that 's why most of those planets are really in the category of " like jupiter . "
but you see , we haven 't gone very far .
we were still back where copernicus was .
we didn 't have any evidence whether planets like the earth are out there .
and we do care about planets like the earth because by now we understood that life as a chemical system really needs a smaller planet with water and with rocks and with a lot of complex chemistry to originate , to emerge , to survive .
and we didn 't have the evidence for that .
so today , i 'm here to actually give you a first glimpse of what the new telescope , kepler , has been able to tell us in the last few weeks ,
and , lo and behold , we are back to the harmony and to fulfilling the dreams of copernicus .
you can see here , the small planets dominate the picture .
the planets which are marked " like earth , " [ are ] definitely more than any other planets that we see .
and now for the first time , we can say that .
there is a lot more work we need to do with this .
most of these are candidates .
in the next few years we will confirm them .
but the statistical result is loud and clear .
and the statistical result is that planets like our own earth are out there .
our own milky way galaxy is rich in this kind of planets .
so the question is : what do we do next ?
well , first of all , we can study them now that we know where they are .
and we can find those that we would call habitable , meaning that they have similar conditions to the conditions that we experience here on earth and where a lot of complex chemistry can happen .
so , we can even put a number to how many of those planets now do we expect our own milky way galaxy harbors .
and the number , as you might expect , is pretty staggering .
it 's about 100 million such planets .
that 's great news . why ?
because with our own little telescope , just in the next two years , we 'll be able to identify at least 60 of them .
so that 's great because then we can go and study them -- remotely , of course -- with all the techniques that we already have tested in the past five years .
we can find what they 're made of , would their atmospheres have water , carbon dioxide , methane .
we know and expect that we 'll see that .
that 's great , but that is not the whole news .
that 's not why i 'm here .
why i 'm here is to tell you that the next step is really the exciting part .
the one that this step is enabling us to do is coming next .
and here comes biology -- biology , with its basic question , which still stands unanswered , which is essentially : " if there is life on other planets , do we expect it to be like life on earth ? " and let me immediately tell you here , when i say life , i don 't mean " dolce vita , " good life , human life .
i really mean life on earth , past and present , from microbes to us humans , in its rich molecular diversity , the way we now understand life on earth as being a set of molecules and chemical reactions -- and we call that , collectively , biochemistry , life as a chemical process , as a chemical phenomenon .
so the question is : is that chemical phenomenon universal , or is it something which depends on the planet ?
is it like gravity , which is the same everywhere in the universe , or there would be all kinds of different biochemistries wherever we find them ?
we need to know what we are looking for when we try to do that .
and that 's a very basic question , which we don 't know the answer to , but which we can try -- and we are trying -- to answer in the lab .
we don 't need to go to space to answer that question .
and so , that 's what we are trying to do .
and that 's what many people now are trying to do .
and a lot of the good news comes from that part of the bridge that we are trying to build as well .
so this is one example that i want to show you here .
when we think of what is necessary for the phenomenon that we call life , we think of compartmentalization , keeping the molecules which are important for life in a membrane , isolated from the rest of the environment , but yet , in an environment in which they actually could originate together .
and in one of our labs , jack szostak 's labs , it was a series of experiments in the last four years that showed that the environments -- which are very common on planets , on certain types of planets like the earth , where you have some liquid water and some clays -- you actually end up with naturally available molecules which spontaneously form bubbles .
but those bubbles have membranes very similar to the membrane of every cell of every living thing on earth looks like ,
like this .
and they really help molecules , like nucleic acids , like rna and dna , stay inside , develop , change , divide and do some of the processes that we call life .
now this is just an example to tell you the pathway in which we are trying to answer that bigger question about the universality of the phenomenon .
and in a sense , you can think of that work that people are starting to do now around the world as building a bridge , building a bridge from two sides of the river .
on one hand , on the left bank of the river , are the people like me who study those planets and try to define the environments .
we don 't want to go blind because there 's too many possibilities , and there is not too much lab , and there is not enough human time to actually to do all the experiments .
so that 's what we are building from the left side of the river .
from the right bank of the river are the experiments in the lab that i just showed you , where we actually tried that , and it feeds back and forth , and we hope to meet in the middle one day .
so why should you care about that ?
why am i trying to sell you a half-built bridge ?
am i that charming ?
well , there are many reasons , and you heard some of them in the short talk today .
this understanding of chemistry actually can help us with our daily lives .
but there is something more profound here , something deeper .
and that deeper , underlying point is that science is in the process of redefining life as we know it .
and that is going to change our worldview in a profound way -- not in a dissimilar way as 400 years ago , copernicus ' act did , by changing the way we view space and time .
now it 's about something else , but it 's equally profound .
and half the time , what 's happened is it 's related this kind of sense of insignificance to humankind , to the earth in a bigger space .
and the more we learn , the more that was reinforced .
you 've all learned that in school -- how small the earth is compared to the immense universe .
and the bigger the telescope , the bigger that universe becomes .
and look at this image of the tiny , blue dot .
this pixel is the earth .
it is the earth as we know it .
it is seen from , in this case , from outside the orbit of saturn .
but it 's really tiny .
we know that .
let 's think of life as that entire planet because , in a sense , it is .
the biosphere is the size of the earth .
life on earth is the size of the earth .
and let 's compare it to the rest of the world in spatial terms .
what if that copernican insignificance was actually all wrong ?
would that make us more responsible for what is happening today ?
let 's actually try that .
so in space , the earth is very small .
can you imagine how small it is ?
let me try it .
okay , let 's say this is the size of the observable universe , with all the galaxies , with all the stars , okay , from here to here .
do you know what the size of life in this necktie will be ?
it will be the size of a single , small atom .
it is unimaginably small .
we can 't imagine it .
i mean look , you can see the necktie , but you can 't even imagine seeing the size of a little , small atom .
but that 's not the whole story , you see .
the universe and life are both in space and time .
if that was the age of the universe , then this is the age of life on earth .
think about those oldest living things on earth , but in a cosmic proportion .
this is not insignificant .
this is very significant .
so life might be insignificant in size , but it is not insignificant in time .
life and the universe compare to each other like a child and a parent , parent and offspring .
so what does this tell us ?
this tells us that that insignificance paradigm that we somehow got to learn from the copernican principle , it 's all wrong .
there is immense , powerful potential in life in this universe -- especially now that we know that places like the earth are common .
and that potential , that powerful potential , is also our potential , of you and me .
and if we are to be stewards of our planet earth and its biosphere , we 'd better understand the cosmic significance and do something about it .
and the good news is we can actually , indeed do it .
and let 's do it .
let 's start this new revolution at the tail end of the old one , with synthetic biology being the way to transform both our environment and our future .
and let 's hope that we can build this bridge together and meet in the middle .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / hans _ rosling _ the _ truth _ about _ hiv.html
hans rosling unveils new data visuals that untangle the complex risk factors of one of the world 's deadliest diseases : hiv . he argues that preventing transmissions -- not drug treatments -- is the key to ending the epidemic .
aids , africa , disease , global issues , presentation , statistics , visualizations
540
hans rosling on hiv : new facts and stunning data visuals
aids was discovered 1981 ; the virus , 1983 .
these gapminder bubbles show you how the spread of the virus was in 1983 in the world , or how we estimate that it was .
what we are showing here is -- on this axis here , i 'm showing percent of infected adults .
and on this axis , i 'm showing dollars per person in income .
and the size of these bubbles , the size of the bubbles here , that shows how many are infected in each country , and the color is the continent .
now , you can see united states , in 1983 , had a very low percentage infected , but due to the big population , still a sizable bubble .
there were quite many people infected in the united states .
and , up there , you see uganda .
they had almost five percent infected , and quite a big bubble in spite of being a small country , then .
and they were probably the most infected country in the world .
now , what has happened ?
now you have understood the graph and now , in the next 60 seconds , we will play the hiv epidemic in the world .
but first , i have a new invention here .
i have solidified the beam of the laser pointer .
so , ready , steady , go !
first , we have the fast rise in uganda and zimbabwe .
they went upwards like this .
in asia , the first country to be heavily infected was thailand --
they reached one to two percent .
then , uganda started to turn back , whereas zimbabwe skyrocketed , and some years later south africa had a terrible rise of hiv frequency .
look , india got many infected , but had a low level .
and almost the same happens here .
see , uganda coming down , zimbabwe coming down , russia went to one percent .
in the last two to three years , we have reached a steady state of hiv epidemic in the world .
25 years it took .
but , steady state doesn 't mean that things are getting better , it 's just that they have stopped getting worse .
and it has -- the steady state is , more or less , one percent of the adult world population is hiv-infected .
it means 30 to 40 million people , the whole of california -- every person , that 's more or less what we have today in the world .
now , let me make a fast replay of botswana .
botswana -- upper middle-income country in southern africa , democratic government , good economy , and this is what happened there .
they started low , they skyrocketed , they peaked up there in 2003 , and now they are down .
but they are falling only slowly , because in botswana , with good economy and governance , they can manage to treat people .
and if people who are infected are treated , they don 't die of aids .
these percentages won 't come down because people can survive 10 to 20 years .
so there 's some problem with these metrics now .
but the poorer countries in africa , the low-income countries down here , there the rates fall faster , of the percentage infected , because people still die .
in spite of pepfar , the generous pepfar , all people are not reached by treatment , and of those who are reached by treatment in the poor countries , only 60 percent are left on treatment after two years .
it 's not realistic with lifelong treatment for everyone in the poorest countries .
but it 's very good that what is done is being done .
but focus now is back on prevention .
it is only by stopping the transmission that the world will be able to deal with it . drugs is too costly -- had we had the vaccine , or when we will get the vaccine , that 's something more effective -- but the drugs are very costly for the poor .
not the drug in itself , but the treatment and the care which is needed around it .
so , when we look at the pattern , one thing comes out very clearly : you see the blue bubbles and people say hiv is very high in africa .
i would say , hiv is very different in africa .
you 'll find the highest hiv rate in the world in african countries , and yet you 'll find senegal , down here -- the same rate as united states .
and you 'll find madagascar , and you 'll find a lot of african countries about as low as the rest of the world .
it 's this terrible simplification that there 's one africa and things go on in one way in africa .
we have to stop that .
it 's not respectful , and it 's not very clever to think that way .
i had the fortune to live and work for a time in the united states .
i found out that salt lake city and san francisco were different .
and so it is in africa -- it 's a lot of difference .
so , why is it so high ? is it war ?
no , it 's not . look here .
war-torn congo is down there -- two , three , four percent .
and this is peaceful zambia , neighboring country -- 15 percent .
and there 's good studies of the refugees coming out of congo -- they have two , three percent infected , and peaceful zambia -- much higher .
there are now studies clearly showing that the wars are terrible , that rapes are terrible ,
but this is not the driving force for the high levels in africa .
so , is it poverty ?
well if you look at the macro level , it seems more money , more hiv .
but that 's very simplistic , so let 's go down and look at tanzania .
i will split tanzania in five income groups , from the highest income to the lowest income , and here we go .
the ones with the highest income , the better off -- i wouldn 't say rich -- they have higher hiv .
the difference goes from 11 percent down to four percent , and it is even bigger among women .
there 's a lot of things that we thought , that now , good research , done by african institutions and researchers together with the international researchers , show that that 's not the case .
so , this is the difference within tanzania .
and , i can 't avoid showing kenya .
look here at kenya .
i 've split kenya in its provinces .
here it goes .
see the difference within one african country -- it goes from very low level to very high level , and most of the provinces in kenya is quite modest .
so , what is it then ?
why do we see this extremely high levels in some countries ?
well , it is more common with multiple partners , there is less condom use , and there is age-disparate sex -- that is , older men tend to have sex with younger women .
we see higher rates in younger women than younger men in many of these highly affected countries .
but where are they situated ?
i will swap the bubbles to a map .
look , the highly infected are four percent of all population and they hold 50 percent of the hiv-infected .
hiv exists all over the world .
look , you have bubbles all over the world here .
brazil has many hiv-infected .
arab countries not so much , but iran is quite high .
they have heroin addiction and also prostitution in iran .
india has many because they are many .
southeast asia , and so on .
but , there is one part of africa -- and the difficult thing is , at the same time , not to make a uniform statement about africa , not to come to simple ideas of why it is like this , on one hand . on the other hand , try to say that this is not the case , because there is a scientific consensus about this pattern now .
unaids have done good data available , finally , about the spread of hiv .
it could be concurrency .
it could be some virus types .
it could be that there is other things which makes transmission occur in a higher frequency .
after all , if you are completely healthy and you have heterosexual sex , the risk of infection in one intercourse is one in 1,000 .
don 't jump to conclusions now on how to behave tonight and so on .
but -- and if you are in an unfavorable situation , more sexually transmitted diseases , it can be one in 100 .
but what we think is that it could be concurrency .
and what is concurrency ?
in sweden , we have no concurrency .
we have serial monogamy .
vodka , new year 's eve -- new partner for the spring .
vodka , midsummer 's eve -- new partner for the fall .
vodka -- and it goes on like this , you know ?
and you collect a big number of exes .
and we have a terrible chlamydia epidemic -- terrible chlamydia epidemic which sticks around for many years .
hiv has a peak three to six weeks after infection and therefore , having more than one partner in the same month is much more dangerous for hiv than others .
probably , it 's a combination of this .
and what makes me so happy is that we are moving now towards fact when we look at this .
you can get this chart , free .
we have uploaded unaids data on the gapminder site .
and we hope that when we act on global problems in the future we will not only have the heart , we will not only have the money , but we will also use the brain .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / niall _ ferguson _ the _ 6 _ killer _ apps _ of _ prosperity.html
over the past few centuries , western cultures have been very good at creating general prosperity for themselves . historian niall ferguson asks : why the west , and less so the rest ? he suggests half a dozen big ideas from western culture -- call them the 6 killer apps -- that promote wealth , stability and innovation . and in this new century , he says , these apps are all shareable .
business , culture , economics , global issues
1226
niall ferguson : the 6 killer apps of prosperity
let 's talk about billions .
let 's talk about past and future billions .
we know that about 106 billion people have ever lived .
and we know that most of them are dead .
and we also know that most of them live or lived in asia .
and we also know that most of them were or are very poor -- did not live for very long .
let 's talk about billions .
the 195,000 billion dollars of wealth in the world today .
we know that most of that wealth was made after the year 1800 .
and we know that most of it is currently owned by people we might call westerners : europeans , north americans , australasians .
19 percent of the world 's population today , westerners own two-thirds of its wealth .
economic historians call this " the great divergence . "
and this slide here is the best simplification of the great divergence story i can offer you .
it 's basically two ratios of per capita gdp , per capita gross domestic product , so average income .
one , the red line , is the ratio of british to indian per capita income .
and the blue line is the ratio of american to chinese .
and this chart goes back to 1500 .
and you can see here that there 's an exponential great divergence .
they start off pretty close together .
in fact , in 1500 , the average chinese was richer than the average north american .
when you get to the 1970s , which is where this chart ends , the average briton is more than 10 times richer than the average indian .
and that 's allowing for differences in the cost of living .
it 's based on purchasing power parity .
the average american is nearly 20 times richer than the average chinese by the 1970s .
so why ?
this wasn 't just an economic story .
if you take the 10 countries that went on to become the western empires , in 1500 they were really quite tiny -- five percent of the world 's land surface , 16 percent of its population , maybe 20 percent of its income .
by 1913 , these 10 countries , plus the united states , controlled vast global empires -- 58 percent of the world 's territory ,
about the same percentage of its population , and a really huge , nearly three-quarters share of global economic output .
and notice , most of that went to the motherland , to the imperial metropoles , not to their colonial possessions .
now you can 't just blame this on imperialism -- though many people have tried to do so -- for two reasons .
one , empire was the least original thing that the west did after 1500 .
everybody did empire .
they beat preexisting oriental empires like the mughals and the ottomans .
so it really doesn 't look like empire is a great explanation for the great divergence .
in any case , as you may remember , the great divergence reaches its zenith in the 1970s , some considerable time after decolonization .
this is not a new question .
samuel johnson , the great lexicographer , [ posed ] it through his character rasselas in his novel " rasselas , prince of abissinia , " published in 1759 .
" by what means are the europeans thus powerful ; or why , since they can so easily visit asia and africa for trade or conquest , cannot the asiaticks and africans invade their coasts , plant colonies in their ports , and give laws to their natural princes ?
the same wind that carries them back would bring us thither ? "
that 's a great question . and you know what , it was also being asked at roughly the same time by the resterners -- by the people in the rest of the world -- like ibrahim muteferrika , an ottoman official , the man who introduced printing , very belatedly , to the ottoman empire -- who said in a book published in 1731 , " why do christian nations which were so weak in the past compared with muslim nations begin to dominate so many lands in modern times and even defeat the once victorious ottoman armies ? "
unlike rasselas , muteferrika had an answer to that question , which was correct .
he said it was " because they have laws and rules invented by reason . "
it 's not geography .
you may think we can explain the great divergence in terms of geography .
we know that 's wrong , because we conducted two great natural experiments in the 20th century to see if geography mattered more than institutions .
we took all the germans , we divided them roughly in two , and we gave the ones in the east communism , and you see the result .
within an incredibly short period of time , people living in the german democratic republic
produced trabants , the trabbi , one of the world 's worst ever cars , while people in the west produced the mercedes benz .
if you still don 't believe me , we conducted the experiment also in the korean peninsula .
and we decided we 'd take koreans in roughly the same geographical place with , notice , the same basic traditional culture , and we divided them in two , and we gave the northerners communism .
and the result is an even bigger divergence in a very short space of time than happened in germany .
not a big divergence in terms of uniform design for border guards admittedly , but in almost every other respect , it 's a huge divergence .
which leads me to think that neither geography nor national character , popular explanations for this kind of thing , are really significant .
it 's the ideas .
it 's the institutions .
this must be true because a scotsman said it .
and i think i 'm the only scotsman here at the edinburgh ted . so let me just explain to you that the smartest man ever was a scotsman .
he was adam smith -- not billy connolly , not sean connery -- though he is very smart indeed .
smith -- and i want you to go and bow down before his statue in the royal mile ; it 's a wonderful statue -- smith , in the " wealth of nations " published in 1776 -- that 's the most important thing that happened that year ...
you bet .
there was a little local difficulty in some of our minor colonies , but ...
" china seems to have been long stationary , and probably long ago acquired that full complement of riches which is consistent with the nature of its laws and institutions .
but this complement may be much inferior to what , with other laws and institutions , the nature of its soil , climate , and situation might admit of . "
that is so right and so cool .
and he said it such a long time ago .
but you know , this is a ted audience , and if i keep talking about institutions , you 're going to turn off .
so i 'm going to translate this into language that you can understand .
let 's call them the killer apps .
i want to explain to you that there were six killer apps that set the west apart from the rest .
and they 're kind of like the apps on your phone , in the sense that they look quite simple .
they 're just icons ; you click on them .
but behind the icon , there 's complex code .
it 's the same with institutions .
there are six which i think explain the great divergence .
one , competition .
two , the scientific revolution .
three , property rights .
four , modern medicine .
five , the consumer society .
and six , the work ethic .
you can play a game and try and think of one i 've missed at , or try and boil it down to just four , but you 'll lose .
let me very briefly tell you what i mean by this , synthesizing the work of many economic historians in the process .
competition means , not only were there a hundred different political units in europe in 1500 , but within each of these units , there was competition between corporations as well as sovereigns .
the ancestor of the modern corporation , the city of london corporation , existed in the 12th century .
nothing like this existed in china , where there was one monolithic state covering a fifth of humanity , and anyone with any ambition had to pass one standardized examination , which took three days and was very difficult and involved memorizing vast numbers of characters and very complex confucian essay writing .
the scientific revolution was different from the science that had been achieved in the oriental world in a number of crucial ways , the most important being that , through the experimental method , it gave men control over nature in a way that had not been possible before .
example : benjamin robins 's extraordinary application of newtonian physics to ballistics .
once you do that , your artillery becomes accurate .
think of what that means .
that really was a killer application .
meanwhile , there 's no scientific revolution anywhere else .
the ottoman empire 's not that far from europe , but there 's no scientific revolution there .
in fact , they demolish taqi al-din 's observatory , because it 's considered blasphemous to inquire into the mind of god .
property rights : it 's not the democracy , folks ; it 's having the rule of law based on private property rights .
that 's what makes the difference between north america and south america .
you could turn up in north america having signed a deed of indenture saying , " i 'll work for nothing for five years .
you just have to feed me . "
but at the end of it , you 've got a hundred acres of land .
that 's the land grant on the bottom half of the slide .
that 's not possible in latin america where land is held onto by a tiny elite descended from the conquistadors .
and you can see here the huge divergence that happens in property ownership between north and south .
most people in rural north america owned some land by 1900 .
hardly anyone in south america did .
that 's another killer app .
modern medicine in the late 19th century began to make major breakthroughs against the infectious diseases that killed a lot of people .
and this was another killer app -- the very opposite of a killer , because it doubled , and then more than doubled , human life expectancy .
it even did that in the european empires .
even in places like senegal , beginning in the early 20th century , there were major breakthroughs in public health , and life expectancy began to rise .
it doesn 't rise any faster after these countries become independent .
the empires weren 't all bad .
the consumer society is what you need for the industrial revolution to have a point .
you need people to want to wear tons of clothes .
you 've all bought an article of clothing in the last month ; i guarantee it .
that 's the consumer society ,
and it propels economic growth more than even technological change itself .
japan was the first non-western society to embrace it .
the alternative , which was proposed by mahatma gandhi , was to institutionalize and make poverty permanent .
very few indians today wish that india had gone down mahatma gandhi 's road .
finally , the work ethic .
max weber thought that was peculiarly protestant .
he was wrong .
any culture can get the work ethic if the institutions are there to create the incentive to work .
we know this because today the work ethic is no longer a protestant , western phenomenon .
in fact , the west has lost its work ethic .
today , the average korean works a thousand hours more a year than the average german -- a thousand .
and this is part of a really extraordinary phenomenon , and that is the end of the great divergence .
who 's got the work ethic now ?
take a look at mathematical attainment by 15 year-olds .
at the top of the international league table according to the latest pisa study , is the shanghai district of china .
the gap between shanghai and the united kingdom and the united states is as big as the gap between the u.k. and the u.s. and albania and tunisia .
you probably assume that because the iphone was designed in california but assembled in china that the west still leads in terms of technological innovation .
you 're wrong .
in terms of patents , there 's no question that the east is ahead .
not only has japan been ahead for some time , south korea has gone into third place , and china is just about to overtake germany .
why ?
because the killer apps can be downloaded .
it 's open source .
any society can adopt these institutions , and when they do , they achieve what the west achieved after 1500 -- only faster .
this is the great reconvergence , and it 's the biggest story of your lifetime .
because it 's on your watch that this is happening .
it 's our generation that is witnessing the end of western predominance .
the average american used to be more than 20 times richer than the average chinese .
now it 's just five times , and soon it will be 2.5 times .
so i want to end with three questions for the future billions , just ahead of 2016 , when the united states will lose its place as number one economy to china .
the first is , can you delete these apps , and are we in the process of doing so in the western world ?
the second question is , does the sequencing of the download matter ?
and could africa get that sequencing wrong ?
one obvious implication of modern economic history is that it 's quite hard to transition to democracy before you 've established secure private property rights .
warning : that may not work .
and third , can china do without killer app number three ?
that 's the one that john locke systematized when he said that freedom was rooted in private property rights and the protection of law .
that 's the basis for the western model of representative government .
now this picture shows the demolition of the chinese artist ai weiwei 's studio in shanghai earlier this year .
he 's now free again , having been detained , as you know , for some time .
but i don 't think his studio has been rebuilt .
winston churchill once defined civilization in a lecture he gave in the fateful year of 1938 .
and i think these words really nail it : " it means a society based upon the opinion of civilians .
it means that violence , the rule of warriors and despotic chiefs , the conditions of camps and warfare , of riot and tyranny , give place to parliaments where laws are made , and independent courts of justice in which over long periods those laws are maintained .
that is civilization -- and in its soil grow continually freedom , comfort and culture , " what all tedsters care about most .
" when civilization reigns in any country , a wider and less harassed life is afforded to the masses of the people . "
that 's so true .
i don 't think the decline of western civilization is inevitable , because i don 't think history operates in this kind of life-cycle model , beautifully illustrated by thomas cole 's " course of empire " paintings .
that 's not the way history works .
that 's not the way the west rose , and i don 't think it 's the way the west will fall .
the west may collapse very suddenly .
complex civilizations do that , because they operate , most of the time , on the edge of chaos .
that 's one of the most profound insights to come out of the historical study of complex institutions like civilizations .
no , we may hang on , despite the huge burdens of debt that we 've accumulated , despite the evidence that we 've lost our work ethic and other parts of our historical mojo .
but one thing is for sure , the great divergence is over , folks .
thanks very much .
bruno giussani : niall , i am just curious about your take on the other region of the world that 's booming , which is latin america .
what 's your view on that ?
niall ferguson : well i really am not just talking about the rise of the east ; i 'm talking about the rise of the rest , and that includes south america .
i once asked one of my colleagues at harvard , " hey , is south america part of the west ? "
he was an expert in latin american history .
he said , " i don 't know ; i 'll have to think about that . "
that tells you something really important .
i think if you look at what is happening in brazil in particular , but also chile , which was in many ways the one that led the way in transforming the institutions of economic life , there 's a very bright future indeed .
so my story really is as much about that convergence in the americas as it 's a convergence story in eurasia .
bg : and there is this impression that north america and europe are not really paying attention to these trends .
mostly they 're worried about each other .
the americans think that the european model is going to crumble tomorrow .
the europeans think that the american budget is going to explode tomorrow .
and that 's all we seem to be caring about recently .
nf : i think the fiscal crisis that we see in the developed world right now -- both sides of the atlantic -- is essentially the same thing taking different forms in terms of political culture .
and it 's a crisis that has its structural facet -- it 's partly to do with demographics .
but it 's also , of course , to do with the massive crisis that followed excessive leverage , excessive borrowing in the private sector .
that crisis , which has been the focus of so much attention , including by me , i think is an epiphenomenon .
the financial crisis is really a relatively small historic phenomenon , which has just accelerated this huge shift , which ends half a millennium of western ascendancy .
i think that 's its real importance .
bg : niall , thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / cheryl _ hayashi _ the _ magnificence _ of _ spider _ silk.html
cheryl hayashi studies spider silk , one of nature 's most high-performance materials . each species of spider can make up to 7 very different kinds of silk . how do they do it ? hayashi explains at the dna level -- then shows us how this super-strong , super-flexible material can inspire .
macarthur grant , biomechanics , biomimicry , science , technology
1296
cheryl hayashi : the magnificence of spider silk
i 'm here to spread the word about the magnificence of spiders and how much we can learn from them .
spiders are truly global citizens .
you can find spiders in nearly every terrestrial habitat .
this red dot marks the great basin of north america , and i 'm involved with an alpine biodiversity project there with some collaborators .
here 's one of our field sites , and just to give you a sense of perspective , this little blue smudge here , that 's one of my collaborators .
this is a rugged and barren landscape , yet there are quite a few spiders here .
turning rocks over revealed this crab spider grappling with a beetle .
spiders are not just everywhere , but they 're extremely diverse .
there are over 40,000 described species of spiders .
to put that number into perspective , here 's a graph comparing the 40,000 species of spiders to the 400 species of primates .
there are two orders of magnitude more spiders than primates .
spiders are also extremely old .
on the bottom here , this is the geologic timescale , and the numbers on it indicate millions of years from the present , so the zero here , that would be today .
so what this figure shows is that spiders date back to almost 380 million years .
to put that into perspective , this red vertical bar here marks the divergence time of humans from chimpanzees , a mere seven million years ago .
all spiders make silk at some point in their life .
most spiders use copious amounts of silk , and silk is essential to their survival and reproduction .
even fossil spiders can make silk , as we can see from this impression of a spinneret on this fossil spider .
so this means that both spiders and spider silk have been around for 380 million years .
it doesn 't take long from working with spiders to start noticing how essential silk is to just about every aspect of their life .
spiders use silk for many purposes , including the trailing safety dragline , wrapping eggs for reproduction , protective retreats and catching prey .
there are many kinds of spider silk .
for example , this garden spider can make seven different kinds of silks .
when you look at this orb web , you 're actually seeing many types of silk fibers .
the frame and radii of this web is made up of one type of silk , while the capture spiral is a composite of two different silks : the filament and the sticky droplet .
how does an individual spider make so many kinds of silk ?
to answer that , you have to look a lot closer at the spinneret region of a spider .
so silk comes out of the spinnerets , and for those of us spider silk biologists , this is what we call the " business end " of the spider .
we spend long days ...
hey ! don 't laugh . that 's my life .
we spend long days and nights staring at this part of the spider .
and this is what we see .
you can see multiple fibers coming out of the spinnerets , because each spinneret has many spigots on it .
each of these silk fibers exits from the spigot , and if you were to trace the fiber back into the spider , what you would find is that each spigot connects to its own individual
silk gland . a silk gland kind of looks like a sac with a lot of silk proteins stuck inside .
so if you ever have the opportunity to dissect an orb-web-weaving spider , and i hope you do , what you would find is a bounty of beautiful , translucent silk glands .
inside each spider , there are hundreds of silk glands , sometimes thousands .
these can be grouped into seven categories .
they differ by size , shape , and sometimes even color .
in an orb-web-weaving spider , you can find seven types of silk glands , and what i have depicted here in this picture , let 's start at the one o 'clock position , there 's tubuliform silk glands , which are used to make the outer silk of an egg sac .
there 's the aggregate and flagelliform silk glands which combine to make the sticky capture spiral of an orb web .
pyriform silk glands make the attachment cement -- that 's the silk that 's used to adhere silk lines to a substrate .
there 's also aciniform silk , which is used to wrap prey .
minor ampullate silk is used in web construction .
and the most studied silk line of them all : major ampullate silk .
this is the silk that 's used to make the frame and radii of an orb web , and also the safety trailing dragline .
but what , exactly , is spider silk ?
spider silk is almost entirely protein .
nearly all of these proteins can be explained by a single gene family , so this means that the diversity of silk types we see today is encoded by one gene family ,
so presumably the original spider ancestor made one kind of silk , and over the last 380 million years , that one silk gene has duplicated and then diverged , specialized , over and over and over again , to get the large variety of flavors of spider silks that we have today .
there are several features that all these silks have in common . they all have a common design , such as they 're all very long -- they 're sort of outlandishly long compared to other proteins .
they 're very repetitive , and they 're very rich in the amino acids glycine and alanine .
to give you an idea of what a spider silk protein looks like , this is a dragline silk protein , it 's just a portion of it , from the black widow spider .
this is the kind of sequence that i love looking at day and night .
so what you 're seeing here is the one letter abbreviation for amino acids , and i 've colored in the glycines with green , and the alanines in red , and so
you can see it 's just a lot of g 's and a 's .
you can also see that there 's a lot of short sequence motifs that repeat over and over and over again , so for example there 's a lot of what we call polyalanines , or iterated a 's , aaaaa . there 's ggq . there 's ggy .
you can think of these short motifs that repeat over and over again as words , and these words occur in sentences .
so for example this would be one sentence , and you would get this sort of green region and the red polyalanine , that repeats over and over and over again , and you can have that hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of times within an individual silk molecule .
silks made by the same spider can have dramatically different repeat sequences .
at the top of the screen , you 're seeing the repeat unit from the dragline silk of a garden argiope spider .
it 's short . and on the bottom , this is the repeat sequence for the egg case , or tubuliform silk protein , for the exact same spider . and you can see how dramatically different these silk proteins are -- so this is sort of the beauty of the diversification of the spider silk gene family .
you can see that the repeat units differ in length . they also differ in sequence .
so i 've colored in the glycines again in green , alanine in red , and the serines , the letter s , in purple . and you can see that the top repeat unit can be explained almost entirely by green and red , and the bottom repeat unit has a substantial amount of purple .
what silk biologists do is we try to relate these sequences , these amino acid sequences , to the mechanical properties of the silk fibers .
now , it 's really convenient that spiders use their silk completely outside their body .
this makes testing spider silk really , really easy to do in the laboratory , because we 're actually , you know , testing it in air that 's exactly the environment that spiders are using their silk proteins .
so this makes quantifying silk properties by methods such as tensile testing , which is basically , you know , tugging on one end of the fiber , very amenable .
here are stress-strain curves generated by tensile testing five fibers made by the same spider .
so what you can see here is that the five fibers have different behaviors .
specifically , if you look on the vertical axis , that 's stress . if you look at the maximum stress value for each of these fibers , you can see that there 's a lot of variation , and in fact dragline , or major ampullate silk , is the strongest of these fibers .
we think that 's because the dragline silk , which is used to make the frame and radii for a web , needs to be very strong .
on the other hand , if you were to look at strain -- this is how much a fiber can be extended -- if you look at the maximum value here , again , there 's a lot of variation and the clear winner is flagelliform , or the capture spiral filament .
in fact , this flagelliform fiber can actually stretch over twice its original length .
so silk fibers vary in their strength and also their extensibility .
in the case of the capture spiral , it needs to be so stretchy to absorb the impact of flying prey .
if it wasn 't able to stretch so much , then basically when an insect hit the web , it would just trampoline right off of it .
so if the web was made entirely out of dragline silk , an insect is very likely to just bounce right off . but by having really , really stretchy capture spiral silk , the web is actually able to absorb the impact of that intercepted prey .
there 's quite a bit of variation within the fibers that an individual spider can make .
we call that the tool kit of a spider .
that 's what the spider has to interact with their environment . but how about variation among spider species , so looking at one type of silk and looking at different species of spiders ?
this is an area that 's largely unexplored but here 's a little bit of data i can show you .
this is the comparison of the toughness of the dragline spilk spun by 21 species of spiders .
some of them are orb-weaving spiders and some of them are non-orb-weaving spiders .
it 's been hypothesized that orb-weaving spiders , like this argiope here , should have the toughest dragline silks because they must intercept flying prey .
what you see here on this toughness graph is the higher the black dot is on the graph , the higher the toughness .
the 21 species are indicated here by this phylogeny , this evolutionary tree , that shows their genetic relationships , and i 've colored in yellow the orb-web-weaving spiders .
if you look right here at the two red arrows , they point to the toughness values for the draglines of nephila clavipes and araneus diadematus .
these are the two species of spiders for which the vast majority of time and money on synthetic spider silk research has been to replicate their dragline silk proteins .
yet , their draglines are not the toughest .
in fact , the toughest dragline in this survey is this one right here in this white region , a non orb-web-weaving spider .
this is the dragline spun by scytodes , the spitting spider .
scytodes doesn 't use a web at all to catch prey . instead , scytodes sort of lurks around and waits for prey to get close to it , and then immobilizes prey by spraying a silk-like venom onto that insect .
think of hunting with silly string .
that 's how scytodes forages .
we don 't really know why scytodes needs such a tough dragline , but it 's unexpected results like this that make bio-prospecting so exciting and worthwhile .
it frees us from the constraints of our imagination .
now i 'm going to mark on the toughness values for nylon fiber , bombyx -- or domesticated silkworm silk -- wool , kevlar , and carbon fibers .
and what you can see is that nearly all the spider draglines surpass them .
it 's the combination of strength , extensibility and toughness that makes spider silk so special , and that has attracted the attention of biomimeticists , so people that turn to nature to try to find new solutions .
and the strength , extensibility and toughness of spider silks combined with the fact that silks do not elicit an immune response , have attracted a lot of interest in the use of spider silks in biomedical applications , for example , as a component of artificial tendons , for serving as guides to regrow nerves , and for scaffolds for tissue growth .
spider silks also have a lot of potential for their anti-ballistic capabilities .
silks could be incorporated into body and equipment armor that would be more lightweight and flexible than any armor available today .
in addition to these biomimetic applications of spider silks , personally , i find studying spider silks just fascinating in and of itself .
i love when i 'm in the laboratory , a new spider silk sequence comes in .
that 's just the best .
it 's like the spiders are sharing an ancient secret with me , and that 's why i 'm going to spend the rest of my life studying spider silk .
the next time you see a spider web , please , pause and look a little closer .
you 'll be seeing one of the most high-performance materials known to man .
to borrow from the writings of a spider named charlotte , silk is terrific .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / clay _ shirky _ on _ institutions _ versus _ collaboration.html
in this prescient 2005 talk , clay shirky shows how closed groups and companies will give way to looser networks where small contributors have big roles and fluid cooperation replaces rigid planning .
business , cognitive science , collaboration , culture , social change , society , technology
274
clay shirky on institutions vs. collaboration
how do groups get anything done ? right ?
how do you organize a group of individuals so that the output of the group is something coherent and of lasting value , instead of just being chaos ?
and the economic framing of that problem is called coordination costs .
and a coordination cost is essentially all of the financial or institutional difficulties in arranging group output .
and we 've had a classic answer for coordination costs , which is , if you want to coordinate the work of a group of people , you start an institution , right ? you raise some resources .
you found something . it can be private or public .
it can be for profit or not profit . it can be large or small .
but you get these resources together .
you found an institution , and you use the institution to coordinate the activities of the group .
more recently , because the cost of letting groups communicate with each other has fallen through the floor -- and communication costs are one of the big inputs to coordination -- there has been a second answer , which is to put the cooperation into the infrastructure , to design systems that coordinate the output of the group as a by-product of the operating of the system , without regard to institutional models .
so , that 's what i want to talk about today .
i 'm going to illustrate it with some fairly concrete examples , but always pointing to the broader themes .
so , i 'm going to start by trying to answer a question that i know each of you will have asked yourself at some point or other , and which the internet is purpose-built to answer , which is , where can i get a picture of a roller-skating mermaid ?
so , in new york city , on the first saturday of every summer , coney island , our local , charmingly run-down amusement park , hosts the mermaid parade . it 's an amateur parade ; people come from all over the city ; people get all dressed up .
some people get less dressed up .
young and old , dancing in the streets .
colorful characters , and a good time is had by all .
and what i want to call your attention to is not the mermaid parade itself , charming though it is , but rather to these photos .
i didn 't take them . how did i get them ?
and the answer is : i got them from flickr .
flickr is a photo-sharing service that allows people to take photos , upload them , share them over the web and so forth .
recently , flickr has added an additional function called tagging .
tagging was pioneered by delicious and joshua schachter .
delicious is a social bookmarking service .
tagging is a cooperative infrastructure answer to classification .
right ? if i had given this talk last year , i couldn 't do what i just did , because i couldn 't have found those photos .
but instead of saying , we need to hire a professional class of librarians to organize these photos once they 're uploaded , flickr simply turned over to the users the ability to characterize the photos .
so , i was able to go in and draw down photos that had been tagged " mermaid parade . " there were 3,100 photos taken by 118 photographers , all aggregated and then put under this nice , neat name , shown in reverse chronological order .
and i was then able to go and retrieve them to give you that little slideshow .
now , what hard problem is being solved here ?
and it 's -- in the most schematic possible view , it 's a coordination problem , right ?
there are a large number of people on the internet , a very small fraction of them have photos of the mermaid parade .
how do we get those people together to contribute that work ?
the classic answer is to form an institution , right ?
to draw those people into some prearranged structure that has explicit goals .
and i want to call your attention to some of the side effects of going the institutional route .
first of all , when you form an institution , you take on a management problem , right ?
no good just hiring employees ,
you also have to hire other employees to manage those employees and to enforce the goals of the institution and so forth .
secondly , you have to bring structure into place .
right ? you have to have economic structure .
you have to have legal structure .
you have to have physical structure .
and that creates additional costs .
third , forming an institution is inherently exclusionary .
you notice we haven 't got everybody who has a photo .
you can 't hire everyone in a company , right ?
you can 't recruit everyone into a governmental organization .
you have to exclude some people .
and fourth , as a result of that exclusion , you end up with a professional class . look at the change here .
we 've gone from people with photos to photographers .
right ? we 've created a professional class of photographers whose goal is to go out and photograph the mermaid parade , or whatever else they 're sent out to photograph .
when you build cooperation into the infrastructure , which is the flickr answer , you can leave the people where they are and you take the problem to the individuals , rather than moving the individuals to the problem .
you arrange the coordination in the group , and by doing that you get the same outcome , without the institutional difficulties .
you lose the institutional imperative .
you lose the right to shape people 's work when it 's volunteer effort , but you also shed the institutional cost , which gives you greater flexibility .
what flickr does is it replaces planning with coordination .
and this is a general aspect of these cooperative systems .
right . you 'll have experienced this in your life whenever you bought your first mobile phone ,
and you stopped making plans .
you just said , " i 'll call you when i get there . "
" call me when you get off work . " right ?
that is a point-to-point replacement of coordination with planning .
right . we 're now able to do that kind of thing with groups .
to say instead of , we must make an advance plan , we must have a five-year projection of where the wikipedia is going to be , or whatever , you can just say , let 's coordinate the group effort , and let 's deal with it as we go , because we 're now well-enough coordinated that we don 't have to take on the problems of deciding in advance what to do .
so here 's another example . this one 's somewhat more somber .
these are photos on flickr tagged " iraq . "
and everything that was hard about the coordination cost with the mermaid parade is even harder here .
there are more pictures . there are more photographers .
it 's taken over a wider geographic area .
the photos are spread out over a longer period of time .
and worst of all , that figure at the bottom , approximately ten photos per photographer , is a lie .
it 's mathematically true , but it doesn 't really talk about anything important -- because in these systems , the average isn 't really what matters .
what matters is this .
this is a graph of photographs tagged iraq as taken by the 529 photographers who contributed the 5,445 photos .
and it 's ranked in order of number of photos taken per photographer .
you can see here , over at the end , our most prolific photographer has taken around 350 photos , and you can see there 's a few people who have taken hundreds of photos .
then there 's dozens of people who 've taken dozens of photos .
and by the time we get around here , we get ten or fewer photos , and then there 's this long , flat tail .
and by the time you get to the middle , you 've got hundreds of people who have contributed only one photo each .
this is called a power-law distribution .
it appears often in unconstrained social systems where people are allowed to contribute as much or as little as they like -- this is often what you get . right ?
the math behind the power-law distribution is that whatever 's in the nth position is doing about one-nth of whatever 's being measured , relative to the person in the first position .
so , we 'd expect the tenth most prolific photographer to have contributed about a tenth of the photos , and the hundredth most prolific photographer to have contributed only about a hundred as many photos as the most prolific photographer did .
so , the head of the curve can be sharper or flatter .
but that basic math accounts both for the steep slope and for the long , flat tail .
and curiously , in these systems , as they grow larger , the systems don 't converge ; they diverge more .
in bigger systems , the head gets bigger and the tail gets longer , so the imbalance increases .
you can see the curve is obviously heavily left-weighted . here 's how heavily :
if you take the top 10 percent of photographers contributing to this system , they account for three quarters of the photos taken -- just the top 10 percent most prolific photographers .
if you go down to five percent , you 're still accounting for 60 percent of the photos .
if you go down to one percent , exclude 99 percent of the group effort , you 're still accounting for almost a quarter of the photos .
and because of this left weighting , the average is actually here , way to the left .
and that sounds strange to our ears , but what ends up happening is that 80 percent of the contributors have contributed a below-average amount .
that sounds strange because we expect average and middle to be about the same , but they 're not at all .
this is the math underlying the 80 / 20 rule . right ?
whenever you hear anybody talking about the 80 / 20 rule , this is what 's going on . right ?
20 percent of the merchandise accounts for 80 percent of the revenue , 20 percent of the users use 80 percent of the resources -- this is the shape people are talking about when that happens .
institutions only have two tools : carrots and sticks .
and the 80 percent zone is a no-carrot and no-stick zone .
the costs of running the institution mean that you cannot take on the work of those people easily in an institutional frame .
the institutional model always pushes leftwards , treating these people as employees .
the institutional response is , i can get 75 percent of the value for 10 percent of the hires -- great ,
that 's what i 'll do .
the cooperative infrastructure model says , why do you want to give up a quarter of the value ?
if your system is designed so that you have to give up a quarter of the value , re-engineer the system .
don 't take on the cost that prevents you from getting to the contributions of these people . build the system so that anybody can contribute at any amount .
so the coordination response asks not , how are these people as employees , but rather , what is their contribution like ? right ?
we have over here psycho milt , a flickr user , who has contributed one , and only one , photo titled " iraq . "
and here 's the photo . right . labeled , " bad day at work . "
right ? so the question is , do you want that photo ? yes or no .
the question is not , is psycho milt a good employee ?
and the tension here is between institution as enabler and institution as obstacle .
when you 're dealing with the left-hand edge of one of these distributions , when you 're dealing with the people who spend a lot of time producing a lot of the material you want , that 's an institution-as-enabler world .
you can hire those people as employees , you can coordinate their work and you can get some output .
but when you 're down here , where the psycho milts of the world are adding one photo at a time , that 's institution as obstacle .
institutions hate being told they 're obstacles .
one of the first things that happens when you institutionalize a problem is that the first goal of the institution immediately shifts from whatever the nominal goal was to self-preservation .
and the actual goal of the institution goes to two through n .
right ? so , when institutions are told they are obstacles , and that there are other ways of coordinating the value , they go through something a little bit like the kubler-ross stages -- -- of reaction , being told you have a fatal illness : denial , anger , bargaining , acceptance .
most of the cooperative systems we 've seen haven 't been around long enough to have gotten to the acceptance phase .
many , many institutions are still in denial , but we 're seeing recently a lot of both anger and bargaining .
there 's a wonderful , small example going on right now .
in france , a bus company is suing people for forming a carpool , right , because the fact that they have coordinated themselves to create cooperative value is depriving them of revenue .
you can follow this in the guardian .
it 's actually quite entertaining .
the bigger question is , what do you do about the value down here ?
right ? how do you capture that ?
and institutions , as i 've said , are prevented from capturing that .
steve ballmer , now ceo of microsoft , was criticizing linux a couple of years ago , and he said , " oh , this business of thousands of programmers contributing to linux , this is a myth .
we 've looked at who 's contributed to linux , and most of the patches have been produced by programmers who 've only done one thing . " right ?
you can hear this distribution under that complaint .
and you can see why , from ballmer 's point of view , that 's a bad idea , right ?
we hired this programmer , he came in , he drank our cokes and played foosball for three years and he had one idea .
right ? bad hire . right ?
the psycho milt question is , was it a good idea ?
what if it was a security patch ?
what if it was a security patch for a buffer overflow exploit , of which windows has not some , [ but ] several ?
do you want that patch , right ?
the fact that a single programmer can , without having to move into a professional relation to an institution , improve linux once and never be seen from again , should terrify ballmer .
because this kind of value is unreachable in classic institutional frameworks , but is part of cooperative systems of open-source software , of file sharing , of the wikipedia . i 've used a lot of examples from flickr , but there are actually stories about this from all over .
meetup , a service founded so that users could find people in their local area who share their interests and affinities and actually have a real-world meeting offline in a cafe or a pub or what have you .
when scott heiferman founded meetup , he thought it would be used for , you know , train spotters and cat fanciers -- classic affinity groups .
the inventors don 't know what the invention is .
number one group on meetup right now , most chapters in most cities with most members , most active ?
stay-at-home moms . right ?
in the suburbanized , dual-income united states , stay-at-home moms are actually missing the social infrastructure that comes from extended family and local , small-scale neighborhoods .
so they 're reinventing it , using these tools .
meetup is the platform , but the value here is in social infrastructure .
if you want to know what technology is going to change the world , don 't pay attention to 13-year-old boys -- pay attention to young mothers , because they have got not an ounce of support for technology that doesn 't materially make their lives better .
this is so much more important than xbox , but it 's a lot less glitzy .
i think this is a revolution .
i think that this is a really profound change in the way human affairs are arranged .
and i use that word advisedly .
it 's a revolution in that it 's a change in equilibrium .
it 's a whole new way of doing things , which includes new downsides .
in the united states right now , a woman named judith miller is in jail for not having given to a federal grand jury her sources -- she 's a reporter for the new york times -- her sources , in a very abstract and hard-to-follow case .
and journalists are in the street rallying to improve the shield laws .
the shield laws are our laws -- pretty much a patchwork of state laws -- that prevent a journalist from having to betray a source .
this is happening , however , against the background of the rise of web logging .
web logging is a classic example of mass amateurization .
it has de-professionalized publishing .
want to publish globally anything you think today ?
it is a one-button operation that you can do for free .
that has sent the professional class of publishing down into the ranks of mass amateurization .
and so the shield law , as much as we want it -- we want a professional class of truth-tellers -- it is becoming increasingly incoherent , because the institution is becoming incoherent .
there are people in the states right now tying themselves into knots , trying to figure out whether or not bloggers are journalists .
and the answer to that question is , it doesn 't matter , because that 's not the right question .
journalism was an answer to an even more important question , which is , how will society be informed ?
how will they share ideas and opinions ?
and if there is an answer to that that happens outside the professional framework of journalism , it makes no sense to take a professional metaphor and apply it to this distributed class .
so as much as we want the shield laws , the background -- the institution to which they were attached -- is becoming incoherent .
here 's another example .
pro-ana , the pro-ana groups .
these are groups of teenage girls who have taken on web logs , bulletin boards , other kinds of cooperative infrastructure , and have used it to set up support groups for remaining anorexic by choice .
they post pictures of thin models , which they call " thinspiration . "
they have little slogans , like " salvation through starvation . " they even have lance armstrong-style bracelets , these red bracelets , which signify , in the small group , i am trying to maintain my eating disorder .
they trade tips , like , if you feel like eating something , clean a toilet or the litter box . the feeling will pass .
we 're used to support groups being beneficial .
we have an attitude that support groups are inherently beneficial .
but it turns out that the logic of the support group is value neutral .
a support group is simply a small group that wants to maintain a way of living in the context of a larger group .
now , when the larger group is a bunch of drunks , and the small group wants to stay sober , then we think , that 's a great support group .
but when the small group is teenage girls who want to stay anorexic by choice , then we 're horrified .
what 's happened is that the normative goals of the support groups that we 're used to , came from the institutions that were framing them , and not from the infrastructure .
once the infrastructure becomes generically available , the logic of the support group has been revealed to be accessible to anyone , including people pursuing these kinds of goals .
so , there are significant downsides to these changes as well as upsides . and of course , in the current environment , one need allude only lightly to the work of non-state actors trying to influence global affairs , and taking advantage of these .
this is a social map of the hijackers and their associates who perpetrated the 9 / 11 attack .
it was produced by analyzing their communications patterns using a lot of these tools . and doubtless the intelligence communities of the world are doing the same work today for the attacks of last week .
now , this is the part of the talk where i tell you what 's going to come as a result of all of this , but i 'm running out of time , which is good , because i don 't know .
right . as with the printing press , if it 's really a revolution , it doesn 't take us from point a to point b .
it takes us from point a to chaos .
the printing press precipitated 200 years of chaos , moving from a world where the catholic church was the sort of organizing political force to the treaty of westphalia , when we finally knew what the new unit was : the nation state .
now , i 'm not predicting 200 years of chaos as a result of this . 50 .
50 years in which loosely coordinated groups are going to be given increasingly high leverage , and the more those groups forego traditional institutional imperatives -- like deciding in advance what 's going to happen , or the profit motive -- the more leverage they 'll get .
and institutions are going to come under an increasing degree of pressure , and the more rigidly managed , and the more they rely on information monopolies , the greater the pressure is going to be .
and that 's going to happen one arena at a time , one institution at a time . the forces are general , but the results are going to be specific .
and so the point here is not , " this is wonderful , " or " we 're going to see a transition from only institutions to only cooperative framework . "
it 's going to be much more complicated than that .
but the point is that it 's going to be a massive readjustment .
and since we can see it in advance and know it 's coming , my argument is essentially : we might as well get good at it .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / peter _ reinhart _ on _ bread.html
batch to batch , crust to crust ... in tribute to the beloved staple food , baking master peter reinhart reflects on the cordial couplings that give us our daily bread . try not to eat a slice .
art , book , chemistry , death , food , life , love , science
433
peter reinhart on bread
this is a wheat bread , a whole wheat bread , and it 's made with a new technique that i 've been playing around with , and developing and writing about which , for lack of a better name , we call the epoxy method .
and i call it an epoxy method because -- it 's not very appetizing . i understand that -- but -- but if you think about epoxy , what 's epoxy ?
it 's two resins that are , sort of , in and of themselves -- neither of which can make glue , but when you put the two together , something happens . a bond takes place , and you get this very strong , powerful adhesive .
well , in this technique , what i 've tried to do is kind of gather all of the knowledge that the bread-baking world , the artisan bread-baking community , has been trying to accumulate over the last 20 years or so -- since we 've been engaged in a bread renaissance in america -- and put it together to come up with a method that would help to take whole-grain breads .
and let 's face it , everyone 's trying to move towards whole grains .
we finally , after 40 years of knowing that wholegrain was a healthier option , we 're finally getting to the point where we actually are tipping over and attempting to actually eat them .
the challenge , though , for a wholegrain baker is , you know , how do you make it taste good ?
because whole grain -- it 's easy with white flour to make a good-tasting bread . white flour is sweet .
it 's mainly starch , and starch , when you break it down -- what is starch ? it 's -- thank you -- sugar , yes .
so a baker , and a good baker , knows how to pull or draw forth the inherent sugar trapped in the starch .
with whole grain bread , you have other obstacles .
you 've got bran , which is probably the healthiest part of the bread for us , or the fiber for us because it is just loaded with fiber ,
for the bran is fiber .
it 's got germ . those are the good things , but those aren 't the tastiest parts of the wheat .
so whole grain breads historically have had sort of this onus of being health food breads ,
and people don 't like to eat , quote , health food . they like to eat healthy and healthily , but when we think of something as a health food , we think of it as something we eat out of obligation , not out of passion and love for the flavor .
and ultimately , the challenge of the baker , the challenge of every culinary student , of every chef , is to deliver flavor .
flavor is king . flavor rules .
i call it the flavor rule . flavor rules .
and -- and
you can get somebody to eat something that 's good for them once , but they won 't eat it again if they don 't like it , right ?
so , this is the challenge for this bread .
we 're going to try this at lunch , and i 'll explain a bit more about it , but it 's made not only with two types of pre-doughs --
this attempt , again , at bringing out flavor is to make a piece of dough the day before that is not leavened .
it 's just dough that is wet .
it 's hydrated dough we call " the soaker " -- that helps to start enzyme activity .
and enzymes are the secret , kind of , ingredient in dough that brings out flavor .
it starts to release the sugars trapped in the starch .
that 's what enzymes are doing .
and so , if we can release some of those , they become accessible to us in our palate .
they become accessible to the yeast as food .
they become accessible to the oven for caramelization to give us a beautiful crust .
the other pre-dough that we make is fermented -- our pre-ferment .
and it 's made -- it can be a sourdough starter , or what we call a " biga " or any other kind of pre-fermented dough with a little yeast in it ,
and that starts to develop flavor also .
and on day two , we put those two pieces together . that 's the epoxy .
and we 're hoping that , sort of , the enzyme piece of dough becomes the fuel pack for the leavened piece of dough ,
and when we put them together and add the final ingredients , we can create a bread that does evoke the full potential of flavor trapped in the grain .
that 's the challenge . okay , so , now , what we --
in the journey of wheat , let 's go back and look at these 12 stages .
i 'm going to go through them very quickly and then revisit them .
okay , we 're going to start with the first stage .
and this is what every student has to begin with .
everyone who works in the culinary world knows that the first stage of cooking is " mise en place , "
which is just a french way of saying , " get organized . "
everything in its place . first stage .
so in baking we call it scaling -- weighing out the ingredients .
stage two is mixing . we take the ingredients and we mix them .
we have to develop the gluten .
there 's no gluten in flour . there 's only the potential for gluten .
here 's another kind of prefiguring of epoxy because we 've got glutenin and gliadin ,
neither of which are strong enough to make a good bread . but when they get hydrated and they bond to each other , they create a stronger molecule , a stronger protein we call gluten .
and so we , in the mixing process , have to develop the gluten , we have to activate the leaven or the yeast , and we have to essentially distribute all the ingredients evenly .
then we get into fermentation , the third stage , which is really where the flavor develops .
the yeast comes alive and starts eating the sugars , creating carbon dioxide and alcohol --
essentially it 's burping and sweating , which is what bread is . it 's yeast burps and sweat .
and somehow , this is transformed -- the yeast burps and sweats are later transformed -- and this is really getting to the heart of what makes bread so special is that it is a transformational food ,
and we 're going to explore that in a minute . but then , quickly through the next few stages .
we , after it 's fermented and it 's developed , started to develop flavor and character , we divide it into smaller units .
and then we take those units and we shape them . we give them a little pre-shape , usually a round or a little torpedo shape , sometimes .
that 's called " rounding . "
and there 's a short rest period . it can be for a few seconds .
it can be for 20 or 30 minutes . we call that resting or benching .
then we go into final shaping , " panning " -- which means putting the shaped loaf on a pan .
this takes a second , but it 's a distinctive stage .
it can be in a basket . it can be in a loaf pan , but we pan it .
and then , stage nine .
the fermentation which started at stage three is continuing through all these other stages . again , developing more flavor .
the final fermentation takes place in stage nine .
we call it " proofing . "
proofing means to prove that the dough is alive .
and at stage nine we get the dough to the final shape , and it goes into the oven -- stage 10 .
three transformations take place in the oven .
the sugars in the dough caramelize in the crust .
they give us that beautiful brown crust .
only the crust can caramelize . it 's the only place that gets hot enough .
inside , the proteins -- this gluten -- coagulates .
when it gets to about 160 degrees , the proteins all line up and they create structure , the gluten structure -- what ultimately we will call the crumb of the bread .
and the starches , when they reach about 180 degrees , gelatinize .
and gelatinization is yet another oven transformation .
coagulation , caramelization and gelatinization --
when the starch is thick and they absorb all the moisture that 's around them , they -- they kind of swell , and then they burst .
and they burst , and they spill their guts into the bread .
so basically now we 're eating yeast sweats -- sweat , burps and starch guts .
again , transformed in stage 10 in the oven because what went into the oven as dough comes out in stage 11 as bread .
and stage 11 , we call it cooling -- because we never really eat the bread right away .
there 's a little carry-over baking .
the proteins have to set up , strengthen and firm up .
and then we have stage 12 , which the textbooks call " packaging , " but my students call " eating . "
and so , we 're going to be on our own journey today from wheat to eat , and in a few minutes we will try this , and see if we have succeeded in fulfilling this baker 's mission of pulling out flavor .
but i want to go back now and revisit these steps , and talk about it from the standpoint of transformation , because i really believe that all things can be understood --
and this is not my own idea . this goes back to the scholastics and to the ancients -- that all things can be understood on four levels : the literal , the metaphoric or poetic level , the political or ethical level . and ultimately , the mystical or sometimes called the " anagogical " level .
it 's hard to get to those levels unless you go through the literal .
in fact , dante says you can 't understand the three deeper levels unless you first understand the literal level ,
so that 's why we 're talking literally about bread .
from the standpoint of connections to possibly a deeper level -- all in my quest for answering the question , " what is it about bread that 's so special ? "
and fulfilling this mission of evoking the full potential of flavor .
because what happens is , bread begins as wheat or any other grain .
but what 's wheat ? wheat is a grass that grows in the field .
and , like all grasses , at a certain point it puts out seeds .
and we harvest those seeds , and those are the wheat kernels .
now , in order to harvest it -- i mean , what 's harvesting ?
it 's just a euphemism for killing , right ?
i mean , that 's what 's harvest -- we say we harvest the pig , you know ?
yes , we slaughter , you know . yes , that 's life .
we harvest the wheat , and in harvesting it , we kill it .
now , wheat is alive , and as we harvest it , it gives up its seeds .
now , at least with seeds we have the potential for future life .
we can plant those in the ground . and we save some of those for the next generation .
but most of those seeds get crushed and turned into flour .
and at that point , the wheat has suffered the ultimate indignity .
it 's not only been killed , but it 's been denied any potential for creating future life .
so we turn it into flour .
so as i said , i think bread is a transformational food .
the first transformation -- and , by the way , the definition of transformation for me is a radical change from one thing into something else .
o.k. ? radical , not subtle .
not like hot water made cold , or cold water turned hot , but water boiled off and becoming steam .
that 's a transformation , two different things .
well , in this case , the first transformation is alive to dead .
i 'd call that radical .
so , we 've got now this flour .
and what do we do ? we add some water .
in stage one , we weigh it .
in stage two , we add water and salt to it , mix it together , and we create something that we call " clay . "
it 's like clay .
and we infuse that clay with an ingredient that we call " leaven . "
in this case , it 's yeast , but yeast is leaven . what does leaven mean ?
leaven comes from the root word that means enliven -- to vivify , to bring to life .
by the way , what 's the hebrew word for clay ? adam .
you see , the baker , in this moment , has become , in a sense , sort of , the god of his dough , you know , and his dough , well , while it 's not an intelligent life form , is now alive .
and we know it 's alive because in stage three , it grows . growth is the proof of life .
and while it 's growing , all these literal transformations are taking place .
enzymes are breaking forth sugars .
yeast is eating sugar and turning it into carbon dioxide and alcohol .
bacteria is in there , eating the same sugars , turning them into acids .
in other words , personality and character 's being developed in this dough under the watchful gaze of the baker .
and the baker 's choices all along the way determine the outcome of the product .
a subtle change in temperature -- a subtle change in time -- it 's all about a balancing act between time , temperature and ingredients . that 's the art of baking .
so all these things are determined by the baker , and the bread goes through some stages , and characters develop .
and then we divide it , and this one big piece of dough is divided into smaller units , and each of those units are given shape by the baker .
and as they 're shaped , they 're raised again , all along proving that they 're alive , and developing character .
and at stage 10 , we take it to the oven .
it 's still dough . nobody eats bread dough --
a few people do , i think , but not too many .
i 've met some dough eaters , but -- it 's not the staff of life , right ? bread is the staff of life .
but dough is what we 're working with , and we take that dough to the oven ,
and it goes into the oven . as soon as the interior temperature of that dough crosses the threshold of 140 degrees , it passes what we call the " thermal death point . "
students love that tdp . they think it 's the name of a video game . but it 's the thermal death point -- all life ceases there .
the yeast , whose mission it has been up till now to raise the dough , to enliven it , to vivify it , in order to complete its mission , which is also to turn this dough into bread , has to give up its life .
so you see the symbolism at work ? it 's starting to come forth a little bit , you know .
it 's starting to make sense to me -- what goes in is dough , what comes out is bread -- or it goes in alive , comes out dead .
third transformation . first transformation , alive to dead .
second transformation , dead brought back to life .
third transformation , alive to dead --
but dough to bread .
or another analogy would be , a caterpillar has been turned into a butterfly .
and it 's what comes out of the oven that is what we call the staff of life .
this is the product that everyone in the world eats , that is so difficult to give up .
it 's so deeply embedded in our psyches that bread is used as a symbol for life .
it 's used as a symbol for transformation .
and so , as we get to stage 12 and we partake of that , again completing the life cycle , you know , we have a chance to essentially ingest that --
it nurtures us , and we continue to carry on and have opportunities to ponder things like this .
so this is what i 've learned from bread .
this is what bread has taught me in my journey .
and what we 're going to attempt to do with this bread here , again , is to use , in addition to everything we talked about , this bread we 're going to call " spent grain bread " because , as you know , bread-making is very similar to beer-making .
beer is basically liquid bread , or bread is solid beer .
and --
they -- they 're invented around the same time . i think beer came first .
and the egyptian who was tending the beer fell asleep in the hot , egyptian sun , and it turned into bread .
but we 've got this bread , and what i did here is to try to , again , evoke even more flavor from this grain , was we 've added into it the spent grain from beer-making .
and if you make this bread , you can use any kind of spent grain from any type of beer .
i like dark spent grain . today we 're using a light spent grain that 's actually from , like , some kind of a lager of some sort -- a light lager or an ale -- that is wheat and barley that 's been toasted .
in other words , the beer-maker knows also how to evoke flavor from the grains by using sprouting and malting and roasting .
we 're going to take some of that , and put it into the bread .
so now we not only have a high-fiber bread , but now fiber on top of fiber . and so this is , again , hopefully not only a healthy bread , but a bread that you will enjoy .
so , if i , kind of , break this bread , maybe we can share this now a little bit here .
we 'll start a little piece here ,
and i 'm going to take a little piece here --
i think i 'd better taste it myself before you have it at lunch .
i 'll leave you with what i call the baker 's blessing .
may your crust be crisp , and your bread always rise .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / mark _ applebaum _ the _ mad _ scientist _ of _ music.html
mark applebaum writes music that breaks the rules in fantastic ways , composing a concerto for a florist and crafting a musical instrument from junk and found objects . this quirky talk might just inspire you to shake up the " rules " of your own creative work .
art , composing , music
1526
mark applebaum : the mad scientist of music
i thought if i skipped it might help my nerves , but i 'm actually having a paradoxical reaction to that , so that was a bad idea .
anyway , i was really delighted to receive the invitation to present to you some of my music and some of my work as a composer , presumably because it appeals to my well-known and abundant narcissism .
and i 'm not kidding , i just think we should just say that and move forward .
so , but the thing is , a dilemma quickly arose , and that is that i 'm really bored with music , and i 'm really bored with the role of the composer , and so i decided to put that idea , boredom , as the focus of my presentation to you today .
and i 'm going to share my music with you , but i hope that i 'm going to do so in a way that tells a story , tells a story about how i used boredom as a catalyst for creativity and invention , and how boredom actually forced me to change the fundamental question that i was asking in my discipline , and how boredom also , in a sense , pushed me towards taking on roles beyond the sort of most traditional , narrow definition of a composer .
what i 'd like to do today is to start with an excerpt of a piece of music at the piano .
okay , i wrote that .
no , it 's not - oh , why thank you .
no , no , i didn 't write that .
in fact , that was a piece by beethoven , and so i was not functioning as a composer .
just now i was functioning in the role of the interpreter , and there i am , interpreter .
so , an interpreter of what ? of a piece of music , right ?
but we can ask the question , " but is it music ? " and i say this rhetorically , because of course by just about any standard we would have to concede that this is , of course , a piece of music , but i put this here now because , just to set it in your brains for the moment , because we 're going to return to this question .
it 's going to be a kind of a refrain as we go through the presentation .
so here we have this piece of music by beethoven , and my problem with it is , it 's boring .
i mean , you - i 'm just like , a hush , huh -- it 's like -- it 's beethoven , how can you say that ?
no , well , i don 't know , it 's very familiar to me .
i had to practice it as a kid , and i 'm really sick of it . so -- i would , so what i might like to try to do is to change it , to transform it in some ways , to personalize it , so i might take the opening , like this idea -- and then i might substitute -- and then i might improvise on that melody that goes forward from there -- so that might be the kind of thing -- why thank you .
that would be the kind of thing that i would do , and it 's not necessarily better than the beethoven .
in fact , i think it 's not better than it . the thing is -- --
it 's more interesting to me . it 's less boring for me .
i 'm really leaning into me , because i , because i have to think about what decisions i 'm going to make on the fly as that beethoven text is running in time through my head and i 'm trying to figure out what kinds of transformations i 'm going to make to it .
so this is an engaging enterprise for me , and i 've really leaned into that first person pronoun thing there , and now my face appears twice , so i think we can agree that this is a fundamentally solipsistic enterprise .
but it 's an engaging one , and it 's interesting to me for a while , but then i get bored with it , and by it , i actually mean , the piano , because it becomes , it 's this familiar instrument , it 's timbral range is actually pretty compressed , at least when you play on the keyboard , and if you 're not doing things like listening to it after you 've lit it on fire or something like that , you know .
it gets a little bit boring , and so pretty soon i go through other instruments , they become familiar , and eventually i find myself designing and constructing my own instrument , and i brought one with me today , and i thought i would play a little bit on it for you so you can hear what it sounds like .
you gotta have doorstops , that 's important .
i 've got combs . they 're the only combs that i own .
they 're all mounted on my instruments .
i can actually do all sorts of things . i can play with a violin bow . i don 't have to use the chopsticks .
so we have this sound .
and with a bank of live electronics , i can change the sounds radically .
like that , and like this .
and so forth .
so this gives you a little bit of an idea of the sound world of this instrument , which i think is quite interesting and it puts me in the role of the inventor , and the nice thing about - this instrument is called the mouseketeer ...
and the cool thing about it is i 'm the world 's greatest mouseketeer player .
okay ?
so in that regard , this is one of the things , this is one of the privileges of being , and here 's another role , the inventor , and by the way , when i told you that i 'm the world 's greatest , if you 're keeping score , we 've had narcissism and solipsism and now a healthy dose of egocentricism .
i know some of you are just , you know , bingo ! or , i don 't know .
anyway , so this is also a really enjoyable role .
i should concede also that i 'm the world 's worst mouseketeer player , and it was this distinction that i was most worried about when i was on that prior side of the tenure divide .
i 'm glad i 'm past that . we 're not going to go into that .
i 'm crying on the inside . there are still scars .
anyway , but i guess my point is that all of these enterprises are engaging to me in their multiplicity , but as i 've presented them to you today , they 're actually solitary enterprises , and so pretty soon i want to commune with other people , and so i 'm delighted that in fact i get to compose works for them .
i get to write , sometimes for soloists and i get to work with one person , sometimes full orchestras , and i work with a lot of people , and this is probably the capacity , the role creatively for which i 'm probably best known professionally .
now , some of my scores as a composer look like this , and others look like this , and some look like this , and i make all of these by hand , and it 's really tedious .
it takes a long , long time to make these scores , and right now i 'm working on a piece that 's 180 pages in length , and it 's just a big chunk of my life , and i 'm just pulling out hair .
i have a lot of it , and that 's a good thing i suppose .
so this gets really boring and really tiresome for me , so after a while the process of notating is not only boring , but i actually want the notation to be more interesting , and so that 's pushed me to do other projects like this one .
this is an excerpt from a score called " the metaphysics of notation . "
the full score is 72 feet wide .
it 's a bunch of crazy pictographic notation .
let 's zoom in on one section of it right here . you can see it 's rather detailed . i do all of this with drafting templates , with straight edges , with french curves , and by freehand , and the 72 feet was actually split into 12 six-foot-wide panels that were installed around the cantor arts center museum lobby balcony , and it appeared for one year in the museum , and during that year , it was experienced as visual art most of the week , except , as you can see in these pictures , on fridays , from noon til one , and only during that time , various performers came and interpreted these strange and undefined pictographic glyphs .
now this was a really exciting experience for me .
it was gratifying musically , but i think the more important thing is it was exciting because i got to take on another role , especially given that it appeared in a museum , and that is as visual artist .
we 're going to fill up the whole thing , don 't worry .
i am multitudes .
would say , like , " oh , you 're being a dilettante , " and maybe that 's true . i can understand how , i mean , because i don 't have a pedigree in visual art and i don 't have any training , but it 's just something that i wanted to do as an extension of my composition , as an extension of a kind of creative impulse .
i can understand the question , though . " but is it music ? " i mean , there 's not any traditional notation .
i can also understand that sort of implicit criticism in this piece , " s-tog , " which i made when i was living in copenhagen .
i took the copenhagen subway map and i renamed all the stations to abstract musical provocations , and the players , who are synchronized with stopwatches , follow the timetables , which are listed in minutes past the hour .
so this is a case of actually adapting something , or maybe stealing something , and then turning it into a musical notation .
another adaptation would be this piece .
i took the idea of the wristwatch , and i turned it into a musical score .
i made my own faces , and had a company fabricate them , and the players follow these scores .
they follow the second hands , and as they pass over the various symbols , the players respond musically .
here 's another example from another piece , and then its realization .
so in these two capacities , i 've been scavenger , in the sense of taking , like , the subway map , right , or thief maybe , and i 've also been designer , in the case of making the wristwatches .
and once again , this is , for me , interesting .
another role that i like to take on is that of the performance artist .
some of my pieces have these kind of weird theatric elements , and i often perform them . i want to show you a clip from a piece called " echolalia . " this is actually being performed by brian mcwhorter , who is an extraordinary performer .
let 's watch a little bit of this , and please notice the instrumentation .
okay , i hear you were laughing nervously because you too could hear that the drill was a little bit sharp , the intonation was a little questionable .
let 's watch just another clip .
you can see the mayhem continues , and there 's , you know , there were no clarinets and trumpets and flutes and violins . here 's a piece that has an even more unusual , more peculiar instrumentation .
this is " tlon , " for three conductors and no players .
this was based on the experience of actually watching two people having a virulent argument in sign language , which produced no decibels to speak of , but affectively , psychologically , was a very loud experience .
so , yeah , i get it , with , like , the weird appliances and then the total absence of conventional instruments and this glut of conductors , people might , you know , wonder , yeah , " is this music ? " but let 's move on to a piece where clearly i 'm behaving myself , and that is my " concerto for orchestra . "
you 're going to notice a lot of conventional instruments in this clip .
this , in fact , is not the title of this piece . i was a bit mischievous . in fact , to make it more interesting , i put a space right in here , and this is the actual title of the piece .
let 's continue with that same excerpt .
it 's better with a florist , right ?
or at least it 's less boring . let 's watch a couple more clips .
so with all these theatric elements , this pushes me in another role , and that would be , possibly , the dramaturge .
i was playing nice . i had to write the orchestra bits , right ?
okay ? but then there was this other stuff , right ?
there was the florist , and i can understand that , once again , we 're putting pressure on the ontology of music as we know it conventionally , but let 's look at one last piece today i 'm going to share with you .
this is going to be a piece called " aphasia , " and it 's for hand gestures synchronized to sound , and this invites yet another role , and final one i 'll share with you , which is that of the choreographer .
and the score for the piece looks like this , and it instructs me , the performer , to make various hand gestures at very specific times synchronized with an audio tape , and that audio tape is made up exclusively of vocal samples .
i recorded an awesome singer , and i took the sound of his voice in my computer , and i warped it in countless ways to come up with the soundtrack that you 're about to hear .
and i 'll perform just an excerpt of " aphasia " for you here . okay ?
so that gives you a little taste of that piece .
yeah , okay , that 's kind of weird stuff .
is it music ? here 's how i want to conclude .
i 've decided , ultimately , that this is the wrong question , that this is not the important question .
the important question is , " is it interesting ? " and i follow this question , not worrying about " is it music ? " not worrying about the definition of the thing that i 'm making .
i allow my creativity to push me in directions that are simply interesting to me , and i don 't worry about the likeness of the result to some notion , some paradigm , of what music composition is supposed to be , and that has actually urged me , in a sense , to take on a whole bunch of different roles , and so what i want you to think about is , to what extent might you change the fundamental question in your discipline , and , okay , i 'm going to put one extra little footnote in here , because , like , i realized i mentioned some psychological defects earlier , and we also , along the way , had a fair amount of obsessive behavior , and there was some delusional behavior and things like that , and here i think we could say that this is an argument for self-loathing and a kind of schizophrenia , at least in the popular use of the term , and i really mean dissociative identity disorder , okay .
anyway , despite those perils , i would urge you to think about the possibility that you might take on roles in your own work , whether they are neighboring or far-flung from your professional definition .
and with that , i thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / alison _ gopnik _ what _ do _ babies _ think.html
" babies and young children are like the r & d division of the human species , " says psychologist alison gopnik . her research explores the sophisticated intelligence-gathering and decision-making that babies are really doing when they play .
brain , children , culture , education , psychology
1241
alison gopnik : what do babies think ?
what is going on in this baby 's mind ?
if you 'd asked people this 30 years ago , most people , including psychologists , would have said that this baby was irrational , illogical , egocentric -- that he couldn 't take the perspective of another person or understand cause and effect .
in the last 20 years , developmental science has completely overturned that picture .
so in some ways , we think that this baby 's thinking is like the thinking of the most brilliant scientists .
let me give you just one example of this .
one thing that this baby could be thinking about , that could be going on in his mind , is trying to figure out what 's going on in the mind of that other baby .
after all , one of the things that 's hardest for all of us to do is to figure out what other people are thinking and feeling .
and maybe the hardest thing of all is to figure out that what other people think and feel isn 't actually exactly like what we think and feel .
anyone who 's followed politics can testify to how hard that is for some people to get .
we wanted to know if babies and young children could understand this really profound thing about other people .
now the question is : how could we ask them ?
babies , after all , can 't talk , and if you ask a three year-old to tell you what he thinks , what you 'll get is a beautiful stream of consciousness monologue about ponies and birthdays and things like that .
so how do we actually ask them the question ?
well it turns out that the secret was broccoli .
what we did -- betty rapacholi , who was one of my students , and i -- was actually to give the babies two bowls of food : one bowl of raw broccoli and one bowl of delicious goldfish crackers .
now all of the babies , even in berkley , like the crackers and don 't like the raw broccoli .
but then what betty did was to take a little taste of food from each bowl .
and she would act as if she liked it or she didn 't .
so half the time , she acted as if she liked the crackers and didn 't like the broccoli -- just like a baby and any other sane person .
but half the time , what she would do is take a little bit of the broccoli and go , " mmmmm , broccoli .
i tasted the broccoli . mmmmm . "
and then she would take a little bit of the crackers , and she 'd go , " eww , yuck , crackers .
i tasted the crackers . eww , yuck . "
so she 'd act as if what she wanted was just the opposite of what the babies wanted .
we did this with 15 and 18 month-old babies .
and then she would simply put her hand out and say , " can you give me some ? " so the question is : what would the baby give her , what they liked or what she liked ?
and the remarkable thing was that 18 month-old babies , just barely walking and talking , would give her the crackers if she liked the crackers , but they would give her the broccoli if she liked the broccoli .
on the other hand , 15 month-olds would stare at her for a long time if she acted as if she liked the broccoli , like they couldn 't figure this out .
but then after they stared for a long time , they would just give her the crackers , what they thought everybody must like .
so there are two really remarkable things about this . the first one is that these little 18 month-old babies have already discovered this really profound fact about human nature , that we don 't always want the same thing .
and what 's more , they felt that they should actually do things to help other people get what they wanted .
even more remarkably though , the fact that 15 month-olds didn 't do this suggests that these 18 month-olds had learned this deep , profound fact about human nature in the three months from when they were 15 months old .
so children both know more and learn more than we ever would have thought .
and this is just one of hundreds and hundreds of studies over the last 20 years that 's actually demonstrated it .
the question you might ask though is : why do children learn so much ?
and how is it possible for them to learn so much in such a short time ?
i mean , after all , if you look at babies superficially , they seem pretty useless .
and actually in many ways , they 're worse than useless , because we have to put so much time and energy into just keeping them alive .
but if we turn to evolution for an answer to this puzzle of why we spend so much time taking care of useless babies , it turns out that there 's actually an answer .
if we look across many , many different species of animals , not just us primates , but also including other mammals , birds , even marsupials like kangaroos and wombats , it turns out that there 's a relationship between how long a childhood a species has and how big their brains are compared to their bodies and how smart and flexible they are .
and sort of the posterbirds for this idea are the birds up there .
on one side is a new caledonian crow .
and crows and other corvidae , ravens , rooks and so forth , are incredibly smart birds .
they 're as smart as chimpanzees in some respects .
and this is a bird on the cover of science who 's learned how to use a tool to get food .
on the other hand , we have our friend the domestic chicken .
and chickens and ducks and geese and turkeys are basically as dumb as dumps .
so they 're very , very good at pecking for grain , and they 're not much good at doing anything else .
well it turns out that the babies , the new caledonian crow babies , are fledglings .
they depend on their moms to drop worms in their little open mouths for as long as two years , which is a really long time in the life of a bird .
whereas the chickens are actually mature within a couple of months .
so childhood is the reason why the crows end up on the cover of science and the chickens end up in the soup pot .
there 's something about that long childhood that seems to be connected to knowledge and learning .
well what kind of explanation could we have for this ?
well some animals , like the chicken , seem to be beautifully suited to doing just one thing very well .
so they seem to be beautifully suited to pecking grain in one environment .
other creatures , like the crows , aren 't very good at doing anything in particular , but they 're extremely good at learning about laws of different environments .
and of course , we human beings are way out on the end of the distribution like the crows .
we have bigger brains relative to our bodies by far than any other animal .
we 're smarter , we 're more flexible , we can learn more , we survive in more different environments , we migrated to cover the world and even go to outer space .
and our babies and children are dependent on us for much longer than the babies of any other species .
my son is 23 .
and at least until they 're 23 , we 're still popping those worms into those little open mouths .
all right , why would we see this correlation ?
well an idea is that that strategy , that learning strategy , is an extremely powerful , great strategy for getting on in the world ,
but it has one big disadvantage .
and that one big disadvantage is that , until you actually do all that learning , you 're going to be helpless .
so you don 't want to have the mastodon charging at you and be saying to yourself , " a slingshot or maybe a spear might work . which would actually be better ? " you want to know all that before the mastodons actually show up .
and the way the evolutions seems to have solved that problem is with a kind of division of labor .
so the idea is that we have this early period when we 're completely protected .
we don 't have to do anything . all we have to do is learn .
and then as adults , we can take all those things that we learned when we were babies and children and actually put them to work to do things out there in the world .
so one way of thinking about it is that babies and young children are like the research and development division of the human species .
so they 're the protected blue sky guys who just have to go out and learn and have good ideas , and we 're production and marketing .
we have to take all those ideas that we learned when we were children and actually put them to use .
another way of thinking about it is instead of thinking of babies and children as being like defective grownups , we should think about them as being a different developmental stage of the same species -- kind of like caterpillars and butterflies -- except that they 're actually the brilliant butterflies who are flitting around the garden and exploring ,
and we 're the caterpillars who are inching along our narrow , grownup , adult path .
if this is true , if these babies are designed to learn -- and this evolutionary story would say children are for learning , that 's what they 're for -- we might expect that they would have really powerful learning mechanisms .
and in fact , the baby 's brain seems to be the most powerful learning computer on the planet .
but real computers are actually getting to be a lot better .
and there 's been a revolution in our understanding of machine learning recently .
and it all depends on the ideas of this guy , the reverend thomas bayes , who was a statistician and mathematician in the 18th century .
and essentially what bayes did was to provide a mathematical way using probability theory to characterize , describe , the way that scientists find out about the world .
so what scientists do is they have a hypothesis that they think might be likely to start with .
they go out and test it against the evidence .
the evidence makes them change that hypothesis .
then they test that new hypothesis and so on and so forth .
and what bayes showed was a mathematical way that you could do that .
and that mathematics is at the core of the best machine learning programs that we have now .
and some 10 years ago , i suggested that babies might be doing the same thing .
so if you want to know what 's going on underneath those beautiful brown eyes , i think it actually looks something like this .
this is reverend bayes 's notebook .
so i think those babies are actually making complicated calculations with conditional probabilities that they 're revising to figure out how the world works .
all right , now that might seem like an even taller order to actually demonstrate .
because after all , if you ask even grownups about statistics , they look extremely stupid .
how could it be that children are doing statistics ?
so to test this we used a machine that we have called the blicket detector . this is a box that lights up and plays music when you put some things on it and not others .
and using this very simple machine , my lab and others have done dozens of studies showing just how good babies are at learning about the world .
let me mention just one that we did with tumar kushner , my student .
if i showed you this detector , you would be likely to think to begin with that the way to make the detector go would be to put a block on top of the detector .
but actually , this detector works in a bit of a strange way .
because if you wave a block over the top of the detector , something you wouldn 't ever think of to begin with , the detector will actually activate two out of three times .
whereas , if you do the likely thing , put the block on the detector , it will only activate two out of six times .
so the unlikely hypothesis actually has stronger evidence .
it looks as if the waving is a more effective strategy than the other strategy .
so we did just this ; we gave four year-olds this pattern of evidence , and we just asked them to make it go .
and sure enough , the four year-olds used the evidence to wave the object on top of the detector .
now there are two things that are really interesting about this .
the first one is , again , remember , these are four year-olds .
they 're just learning how to count .
but unconsciously , they 're doing these quite complicated calculations that will give them a conditional probability measure .
and the other interesting thing is that they 're using that evidence to get to an idea , get to a hypothesis about the world , that seems very unlikely to begin with .
and in studies we 've just been doing in my lab , similar studies , we 've show that four year-olds are actually better at finding out an unlikely hypothesis than adults are when we give them exactly the same task .
so in these circumstances , the children are using statistics to find out about the world , but after all , scientists also do experiments , and we wanted to see if children are doing experiments .
when children do experiments we call it " getting into everything " or else " playing . "
and there 's been a bunch of interesting studies recently that have shown this playing around is really a kind of experimental research program .
here 's one from cristine legare 's lab .
what cristine did was use our blicket detectors .
and what she did was show children that yellow ones made it go and red ones didn 't , and then she showed them an anomaly .
and what you 'll see is that this little boy will go through five hypotheses in the space of two minutes .
boy : how about this ?
same as the other side .
alison gopnik : okay , so his first hypothesis has just been falsified .
boy : this one lighted up , and this one nothing .
ag : okay , he 's got his experimental notebook out .
boy : what 's making this light up .
i don 't know .
ag : every scientist will recognize that expression of despair .
boy : oh , it 's because this needs to be like this ,
and this needs to be like this .
ag : okay , hypothesis two .
boy : that 's why .
oh .
ag : now this is his next idea .
he told the experimenter to do this , to try putting it out onto the other location .
not working either .
boy : oh , because the light goes only to here ,
not here .
oh , the bottom of this box has electricity in here ,
but this doesn 't have electricity .
ag : okay , that 's a fourth hypothesis .
boy : it 's lighting up .
so when you put four .
so you put four on this one to make it light up and two on this one to make it light up .
ag : okay , there 's his fifth hypothesis .
now that is a particularly -- that is a particularly adorable and articulate little boy , but what cristine discovered is this is actually quite typical .
if you look at the way children play , when you ask them to explain something ,
what they really do is do a series of experiments .
this is actually pretty typical of four year-olds .
well , what 's it like to be this kind of creature ?
what 's it like to be one of these brilliant butterflies who can test five hypotheses in two minutes ?
well , if you go back to those psychologists and philosophers , a lot of them have said that babies and young children were barely conscious if they were conscious at all .
and i think just the opposite is true .
i think babies and children are actually more conscious than we are as adults .
now here 's what we know about how adult consciousness works .
and adults ' attention and consciousness look kind of like a spotlight .
so what happens for adults is we decide that something 's relevant or important , we should pay attention to it .
our consciousness of that thing that we 're attending to becomes extremely bright and vivid , and everything else sort of goes dark .
and we even know something about the way the brain does this .
so what happens when we pay attention is that the prefrontal cortex , the sort of executive part of our brains , sends a signal that makes a little part of our brain much more flexible ,
more plastic , better at learning ,
and shuts down activity in all the rest of our brains .
so we have a very focused , purpose-driven kind of attention .
if we look at babies and young children , we see something very different .
i think babies and young children seem to have more of a lantern of consciousness than a spotlight of consciousness .
so babies and young children are very bad at narrowing down to just one thing .
but they 're very good at taking in lots of information from lots of different sources at once .
and if you actually look in their brains , you see that they 're flooded with these neurotransmitters that are really good at inducing learning and plasticity , and the inhibitory parts haven 't come on yet .
so when we say that babies and young children are bad at paying attention , what we really mean is that they 're bad at not paying attention .
so they 're bad at getting rid of all the interesting things that could tell them something and just looking at the thing that 's important .
that 's the kind of attention , the kind of consciousness , that we might expect from those butterflies who are designed to learn .
well if we want to think about a way of getting a taste of that kind of baby consciousness as adults , i think the best thing is think about cases where we 're put in a new situation that we 've never been in before -- when we fall in love with someone new , or when we 're in a new city for the first time .
and what happens then is not that our consciousness contracts , it expands , so that those three days in paris seem to be more full of consciousness and experience than all the months of being a walking , talking , faculty meeting-attending zombie back home .
and by the way , that coffee , that wonderful coffee you 've been drinking downstairs , actually mimics the effect of those baby neurotransmitters .
so what 's it like to be a baby ?
it 's like being in love in paris for the first time after you 've had three double-espressos .
that 's a fantastic way to be , but it does tend to leave you waking up crying at three o 'clock in the morning .
now it 's good to be a grownup .
i don 't want to say too much about how wonderful babies are .
it 's good to be a grownup .
we can do things like tie our shoelaces and cross the street by ourselves .
and it makes sense that we put a lot of effort into making babies think like adults do .
but if what we want is to be like those butterflies , to have open-mindedness , open learning , imagination , creativity , innovation , maybe at least some of the time we should be getting the adults to start thinking more like children .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / torsten _ reil _ studies _ biology _ to _ make _ animation.html
torsten reil talks about how the study of biology can help make natural-looking animated people -- by building a human from the inside out , with bones , muscles and a nervous system . he spoke at ted in 2003 ; see his work now in gta4 .
animals , biomechanics , demo , design , entertainment , gaming , technology
300
torsten reil builds better animations
i 'm going to talk about a technology that we 're developing at oxford now , that we think is going to change the way that computer games and hollywood movies are being made .
that technology is simulating humans .
it 's simulated humans with a simulated body and a simulated nervous system to control that body .
now , before i talk more about that technology , let 's have a quick look at what human characters look like at the moment in computer games .
this is a clip from a game called " grand theft auto 3 . "
we already saw that briefly yesterday .
and what you can see is -- it is actually a very good game . it 's one of the most successful games of all time .
but what you 'll see is that all the animations in this game are very repetitive .
they pretty much look the same .
i 've made him run into a wall here , over and over again . and you can see he looks always the same .
the reason for that is that these characters are actually not real characters .
they are a graphical visualization of a character .
to produce these animations , an animator at a studio has to anticipate what 's going to happen in the actual game , and then has to animate that particular sequence .
so , he or she sits down , animates it , and tries to anticipate what 's going to happen , and then these particular animations are just played back at appropriate times in the computer game .
now , the result of that is that you can 't have real interactivity .
all you have is animations that are played back at more or less the appropriate times .
it also means that games aren 't really going to be as surprising as they could be , because you only get out of it , at least in terms of the character , what you actually put into it .
there 's no real emergence there .
and thirdly , as i said , most of the animations are very repetitive because of that .
now , the only way to get around that is to actually simulate the human body and to simulate that bit of the nervous system of the brain that controls that body .
and maybe , if i could have you for a quick demonstration to show what the difference is -- because , i mean , it 's very , very trivial .
if i push chris a bit , like this , for example , he 'll react to it .
if i push him from a different angle , he 'll react to it differently , and that 's because he has a physical body , and because he has the motor skills to control that body .
it 's a very trivial thing .
it 's not something you get in computer games at the moment , at all .
thank you very much . chris anderson : that 's it ?
torsten reil : that 's it , yes .
so , that 's what we 're trying to simulate -- not chris specifically , i should say , but humans in general .
now , we started working on this a while ago at oxford university , and we tried to start very simply .
what we tried to do was teach a stick figure how to walk .
that stick figure is physically stimulated . you can see it here on the screen .
so , it 's subject to gravity , has joints , etc .
if you just run the simulation , it will just collapse , like this .
the tricky bit is now to put an ai controller in it that actually makes it work .
and for that , we use the neural network , which we based on that part of the nervous system that we have in our spine that controls walking in humans .
it 's called the central pattern generator .
so , we simulated that as well , and then the really tricky bit is to teach that network how to walk .
for that we used artificial evolution -- genetic algorithms .
we heard about those already yesterday , and i suppose that most of you are familiar with that already .
but , just briefly , the concept is that you create a large number of different individuals -- neural networks , in this case -- all of which are random at the beginning .
you hook these up -- in this case , to the virtual muscles of that two-legged creature here -- and hope that it does something interesting .
at the beginning , they 're all going to be very boring .
most of them won 't move at all , but some of them might make a tiny step .
those are then selected by the algorithm , reproduced with mutation and recombinations to introduce sex as well .
and you repeat that process over and over again , until you have something that walks -- in this case , in a straight line , like this .
so that was the idea behind this .
when we started this , i set up the simulation one evening .
it took about three to four hours to run the simulation .
i got up the next morning , went to the computer and looked at the results , and was hoping for something that walked in a straight line , like i 've just demonstrated , and this is what i got instead .
so , it was back to the drawing board for us .
we did get it to work eventually , after tweaking a bit here and there .
and this is an example of a successful evolutionary run .
so , what you 'll see in a moment is a very simple biped that 's learning how to walk using artificial evolution .
at the beginning , it can 't walk at all , but it will get better and better over time .
so , this is the one that can 't walk at all .
now , after five generations of applying evolutionary process , the genetic algorithm is getting a tiny bit better .
generation 10 and it 'll take a few steps more --
still not quite there .
but now , after generation 20 , it actually walks in a straight line without falling over .
that was the real breakthrough for us .
it was , academically , quite a challenging project , and once we had reached that stage , we were quite confident that we could try and do other things as well with this approach -- actually simulating the body and simulating that part of the nervous system that controls it .
now , at this stage , it also became clear that this could be very exciting for things like computer games or online worlds .
what you see here is the character standing there , and there 's an obstacle that we put in its way .
and what you see is , it 's going to fall over the obstacle .
now , the interesting bit is , if i move the obstacle a tiny bit to the right , which is what i 'm doing now , here , it will fall over it in a completely different way .
and again , if you move the obstacle a tiny bit , it 'll again fall differently .
now , what you see , by the way , at the top there , are some of the neural activations being fed into the virtual muscles .
okay . that 's the video . thanks .
now , this might look kind of trivial , but it 's actually very important because this is not something you get at the moment in any interactive or any virtual worlds .
now , at this stage , we decided to start a company and move this further , because obviously this was just a very simple , blocky biped .
what we really wanted was a full human body . so we started the company .
we hired a team of physicists , software engineers and biologists to work on this , and the first thing we had to work on was to create the human body , basically .
it 's got to be relatively fast , so you can run it on a normal machine , but it 's got to be accurate enough , so it looks good enough , basically .
so we put quite a bit of biomechanical knowledge into this thing , and tried to make it as realistic as possible .
what you see here on the screen right now is a very simple visualization of that body .
i should add that it 's very simple to add things like hair , clothes , etc . ,
but what we 've done here is use a very simple visualization , so you can concentrate on the movement .
now , what i 'm going to do right now , in a moment , is just push this character a tiny bit and we 'll see what happens .
nothing really interesting , basically .
it falls over , but it falls over like a rag doll , basically .
the reason for that is that there 's no intelligence in it .
it becomes interesting when you put artificial intelligence into it .
so , this character now has motor skills in the upper body --
nothing in the legs yet , in this particular one .
but what it will do -- i 'm going to push it again .
it will realize autonomously that it 's being pushed .
it 's going to stick out its hands .
it 's going to turn around into the fall , and try and catch the fall .
so that 's what you see here .
now , it gets really interesting if you then add the ai for the lower part of the body as well .
so here , we 've got the same character .
i 'm going to push it a bit harder now , harder than i just pushed chris .
but what you 'll see is -- it 's going to receive a push now from the left .
what you see is it takes steps backwards , it tries to counter-balance , it tries to look at the place where it thinks it 's going to land .
i 'll show you this again .
and then , finally hits the floor .
now , this becomes really exciting when you push that character in different directions , again , just as i 've done .
that 's something that you cannot do right now .
at the moment , you only have empty computer graphics in games .
what this is now is a real simulation . that 's what i want to show you now .
so , here 's the same character with the same behavior i 've just shown you , but now i 'm just going to push it from different directions .
first , starting with a push from the right .
this is all slow motion , by the way , so we can see what 's going on .
now , the angle will have changed a tiny bit , so you can see that the reaction is different .
again , a push , now this time from the front .
and you see it falls differently .
and now from the left --
and it falls differently .
that was really exciting for us to see that .
that was the first time we 've seen that .
this is the first time the public sees this as well , because we have been in stealth mode .
i haven 't shown this to anybody yet .
now , just a fun thing :
what happens if you put that character -- this is now a wooden version of it , but it 's got the same ai in it -- but if you put that character on a slippery surface , like ice .
we just did that for a laugh , just to see what happens .
and this is what happens .
it 's nothing we had to do about this .
we just took this character that i just talked about , put it on a slippery surface , and this is what you get out of it .
and that 's a really fascinating thing about this approach .
now , when we went to film studios and games developers and showed them that technology , we got a very good response .
and what they said was , the first thing they need immediately is virtual stuntmen .
because stunts are obviously very dangerous , they 're very expensive , and there are a lot of stunt scenes that you cannot do , obviously , because you can 't really allow the stuntman to be seriously hurt .
so , they wanted to have a digital version of a stuntman and that 's what we 've been working on for the past few months .
and that 's our first product that we 're going to release in a couple of weeks .
so , here are just a few very simple scenes of the guy just being kicked .
that 's what people want . that 's what we 're giving them .
