they went from retreating to the nurse 's station to discuss the various states and needs of patients , to developing a system that happened on the ward in front of patients , using a simple software tool .
by doing this they brought the time that they were away from patients down from 40 minutes to 12 minutes , on average .
they increased patient confidence and nurse happiness .
when you multiply that by all the nurses in all the wards in 40 hospitals in the system , it resulted , actually , in a pretty big impact .
and this is just one of thousands of opportunities in healthcare alone .
so these are just some of the kind of basic ideas around design thinking and some of the new kinds of projects that they 're being applied to .
but i 'd like to go back to brunel here , and suggest a connection that might explain why this is happening now , and maybe why design thinking is a useful tool .
and that connection is change .
in times of change we need new alternatives , new ideas .
now , brunel worked at the height of the industrial revolution , when all of life and our economy was being reinvented .
now the industrial systems of brunel 's time have run their course , and indeed they are part of the problem today .
but , again , we are in the midst of massive change .
and that change is forcing us to question quite fundamental aspects of our society -- how we keep ourselves healthy , how we govern ourselves , how we educate ourselves , how we keep ourselves secure .
and in these times of change , we need these new choices because our existing solutions are simply becoming obsolete .
so why design thinking ?
because it gives us a new way of tackling problems .
instead of defaulting to our normal convergent approach where we make the best choice out of available alternatives , it encourages us to take a divergent approach , to explore new alternatives , new solutions , new ideas that have not existed before .
but before we go through that process of divergence , there is actually quite an important first step .
and that is , what is the question that we 're trying to answer ?
what 's the design brief ?
now brunel may have asked a question like this , " how do i take a train from london to new york ? "
but what are the kinds of questions that we might ask today ?
so these are some that we 've been asked to think about recently .
and one in particular , is one that we 're working on with the acumen fund , in a project that 's been funded by the bill and melinda gates foundation .
how might we improve access to safe drinking water for the world 's poorest people , and at the same time stimulate innovation amongst local water providers ?
so instead of having a bunch of american designers come up with new ideas that may or may not have been appropriate , we took a sort of more open , collaborative and participative approach .
we teamed designers and investment experts up with 11 water organizations across india .
and through workshops they developed innovative new products , services , and business models .
we hosted a competition and then funded five of those organizations to develop their ideas .
so they developed and iterated these ideas .
and then ideo and acumen spent several weeks working with them to help design new social marketing campaigns , community outreach strategies , business models , new water vessels for storing water and carts for delivering water .
some of those ideas are just getting launched into the market .
and the same process is just getting underway with ngos in east africa .
so for me , this project shows kind of how far we can go from some of those sort of small things that i was working on at the beginning of my career .
that by focusing on the needs of humans and by using prototypes to move ideas along quickly , by getting the process out of the hands of designers , and by getting the active participation of the community , we can tackle bigger and more interesting questions .
and just like brunel , by focusing on systems , we can have a bigger impact .
so that 's one thing that we 've been working on .
i 'm actually really quite interested , and perhaps more interested to know what this community thinks we could work on .
what kinds of questions do we think design thinking could be used to tackle ?
and if you 've got any ideas then feel free , you can post them to twitter .
there is a hash tag there that you can use , # cbdq .
and the list looked something like this a little while ago .
and of course you can search to find the questions that you 're interested in by using the same hash code .
so i 'd like to believe that design thinking actually can make a difference , that it can help create new ideas and new innovations , beyond the latest high street products .
to do that i think we have to take a more expansive view of design , more like brunel , less a domain of a professional priesthood .
and the first step is to start asking the right questions .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / sheena _ iyengar _ on _ the _ art _ of _ choosing.html
sheena iyengar studies how we make choices -- and how we feel about the choices we make . at tedglobal , she talks about both trivial choices and profound ones , and shares her groundbreaking research that has uncovered some surprising attitudes about our decisions .
business , choice , culture , economics , psychology , social change , society
924
sheena iyengar on the art of choosing
today , i 'm going to take you around the world in 18 minutes .
my base of operations is in the u.s. , but let 's start at the other end of the map , in kyoto , japan , where i was living with a japanese family while i was doing part of my dissertational research 15 years ago .
i knew even then that i would encounter cultural differences and misunderstandings , but they popped up when i least expected it .
on my first day , i went to a restaurant , and i ordered a cup of green tea with sugar .
after a pause , the waiter said , " one does not put sugar in green tea . "
" i know , " i said . " i 'm aware of this custom .
but i really like my tea sweet . " in response , he gave me an even more courteous version of the same explanation .
" one does not put sugar in green tea . " " i understand , " i said , " that the japanese do not put sugar in their green tea ,
but i 'd like to put some sugar in my green tea . " surprised by my insistence , the waiter took up the issue with the manager .
pretty soon , a lengthy discussion ensued , and finally the manager came over to me and said , " i am very sorry . we do not have sugar . "
well , since i couldn 't have my tea the way i wanted it , i ordered a cup of coffee , which the waiter brought over promptly .
resting on the saucer were two packets of sugar .
my failure to procure myself a cup of sweet , green tea was not due to a simple misunderstanding .
this was due to a fundamental difference in our ideas about choice .
from my american perspective , when a paying customer makes a reasonable request based on her preferences , she has every right to have that request met .
the american way , to quote burger king , is to " have it your way , " because , as starbucks says , " happiness is in your choices . "
but from the japanese perspective , it 's their duty to protect those who don 't know any better -- in this case , the ignorant gaijin -- from making the wrong choice .
let 's face it : the way i wanted my tea was inappropriate according to cultural standards , and they were doing their best to help me save face .
americans tend to believe that they 've reached some sort of pinnacle in the way they practice choice .
they think that choice , as seen through the american lens best fulfills an innate and universal desire for choice in all humans .
unfortunately , these beliefs are based on assumptions that don 't always hold true in many countries , in many cultures .
at times they don 't even hold true at america 's own borders .
i 'd like to discuss some of these assumptions and the problems associated with them .
as i do so , i hope you 'll start thinking about some of your own assumptions and how they were shaped by your backgrounds .
first assumption : if a choice affects you , then you should be the one to make it .
this is the only way to ensure that your preferences and interests will be most fully accounted for .
it is essential for success .
in america , the primary locus of choice is the individual .
people must choose for themselves , sometimes sticking to their guns , regardless of what other people want or recommend .
it 's called " being true to yourself . "
but do all individuals benefit from taking such an approach to choice ?
mark lepper and i did a series of studies in which we sought the answer to this very question .
in one study , which we ran in japantown , san francisco , we brought seven- to nine-year-old anglo- and asian-american children into the laboratory , and we divided them up into three groups .
the first group came in , and they were greeted by miss smith , who showed them six big piles of anagram puzzles .
the kids got to choose which pile of anagrams they would like to do ,
and they even got to choose which marker they would write their answers with .
when the second group of children came in , they were brought to the same room , shown the same anagrams , but this time miss smith told them which anagrams to do and which markers to write their answers with .
now when the third group came in , they were told that their anagrams and their markers had been chosen by their mothers .
in reality , the kids who were told what to do , whether by miss smith or their mothers , were actually given the very same activity , which their counterparts in the first group had freely chosen .
with this procedure , we were able to ensure that the kids across the three groups all did the same activity , making it easier for us to compare performance .
such small differences in the way we administered the activity yielded striking differences in how well they performed .
anglo-americans , they did two and a half times more anagrams when they got to choose them , as compared to when it was chosen for them by miss smith or their mothers .
it didn 't matter who did the choosing , if the task was dictated by another , their performance suffered .
in fact , some of the kids were visibly embarrassed when they were told that their mothers had been consulted .
one girl named mary said , " you asked my mother ? "
in contrast , asian-american children performed best when they believed their mothers had made the choice , second best when they chose for themselves , and least well when it had been chosen by miss smith .
a girl named natsumi even approached miss smith as she was leaving the room and tugged on her skirt and asked , " could you please tell my mommy i did it just like she said ? " the first-generation children were strongly influenced by their immigrant parents ' approach to choice .
for them , choice was not just a way of defining and asserting their individuality , but a way to create community and harmony by deferring to the choices of people whom they trusted and respected .
if they had a concept of being true to one 's self , then that self , most likely , [ was ] composed , not of an individual , but of a collective .
success was just as much about pleasing key figures as it was about satisfying one 's own preferences .
or , you could say that the individual 's preferences were shaped by the preferences of specific others .
the assumption then that we do best when the individual self chooses only holds when that self is clearly divided from others .
when , in contrast , two or more individuals see their choices and their outcomes as intimately connected , then they may amplify one another 's success by turning choosing into a collective act .
to insist that they choose independently might actually compromise both their performance and their relationships .
yet that is exactly what the american paradigm demands .
it leaves little room for interdependence or an acknowledgment of individual fallibility .
it requires that everyone treat choice as a private and self-defining act .
people that have grown up in such a paradigm might find it motivating ,
but it is a mistake to assume that everyone thrives under the pressure of choosing alone .
the second assumption which informs the american view of choice goes something like this .
the more choices you have , the more likely you are to make the best choice .
so bring it on , walmart , with 100,000 different products , and amazon , with 27 million books and match.com with -- what is it ? -- 15 million date possibilities now .
you will surely find the perfect match .
let 's test this assumption by heading over to eastern europe .
here , i interviewed people who were residents of formerly communist countries , who had all faced the challenge of transitioning to a more democratic and capitalistic society .
one of the most interesting revelations came not from an answer to a question , but from a simple gesture of hospitality .
when the participants arrived for their interview , i offered them a set of drinks : coke , diet coke , sprite -- seven , to be exact .
during the very first session , which was run in russia , one of the participants made a comment that really caught me off guard .
" oh , but it doesn 't matter .
it 's all just soda . that 's just one choice . " i was so struck by this comment that from then on , i started to offer all the participants those seven sodas ,
and i asked them , " how many choices are these ? "
again and again , they perceived these seven different sodas , not as seven choices , but as one choice : soda or no soda .
when i put out juice and water in addition to these seven sodas , now they perceived it as only three choices -- juice , water and soda .
compare this to the die-hard devotion of many americans , not just to a particular flavor of soda , but to a particular brand .
you know , research shows repeatedly that we can 't actually tell the difference between coke and pepsi .
of course , you and i know that coke is the better choice .
for modern americans who are exposed to more options and more ads associated with options than anyone else in the world , choice is just as much about who they are as it is about what the product is .
combine this with the assumption that more choices are always better , and you have a group of people for whom every little difference matters and so every choice matters .
but for eastern europeans , the sudden availability of all these consumer products on the marketplace was a deluge .
they were flooded with choice before they could protest that they didn 't know how to swim .
when asked , " what words and images do you associate with choice ? " grzegorz from warsaw said , " ah , for me it is fear .
there are some dilemmas you see .
i am used to no choice . " bohdan from kiev said , in response to how he felt about the new consumer marketplace , " it is too much .
we do not need everything that is there . " a sociologist from the warsaw survey agency explained , " the older generation jumped from nothing to choice all around them .
they were never given a chance to learn how to react . " and tomasz , a young polish man said , " i don 't need twenty kinds of chewing gum .
i don 't mean to say that i want no choice , but many of these choices are quite artificial . " in reality , many choices are between things that are not that much different .
the value of choice depends on our ability to perceive differences between the options .
americans train their whole lives to play " spot the difference . "
they practice this from such an early age that they 've come to believe that everyone must be born with this ability .
in fact , though all humans share a basic need and desire for choice , we don 't all see choice in the same places or to the same extent .
when someone can 't see how one choice is unlike another , or when there are too many choices to compare and contrast , the process of choosing can be confusing and frustrating .
instead of making better choices , we become overwhelmed by choice , sometimes even afraid of it .
choice no longer offers opportunities , but imposes constraints .
it 's not a marker of liberation , but of suffocation by meaningless minutiae .
in other words , choice can develop into the very opposite of everything it represents in america when it is thrust upon those who are insufficiently prepared for it .
but it is not only other people in other places that are feeling the pressure of ever-increasing choice .
americans themselves are discovering that unlimited choice seems more attractive in theory than in practice .
we all have physical , mental and emotional limitations that make it impossible for us to process every single choice we encounter , even in the grocery store , let alone over the course of our entire lives .
a number of my studies have shown that when you give people 10 or more options when they 're making a choice , they make poorer decisions , whether it be health care , investment , other critical areas .
yet still , many of us believe that we should make all our own choices and seek out even more of them .
this brings me to the third , and perhaps most problematic , assumption : " you must never say no to choice . " to examine this , let 's go back to the u.s. and then hop across the pond to france .
right outside chicago , a young couple , susan and daniel mitchell , were about to have their first baby .
they 'd already picked out a name for her , barbara , after her grandmother .
one night , when susan was seven months pregnant , she started to experience contractions and was rushed to the emergency room .
the baby was delivered through a c-section , but barbara suffered cerebral anoxia , a loss of oxygen to the brain .
unable to breathe on her own , she was put on a ventilator .
two days later , the doctors gave the mitchells a choice :
they could either remove barbara off the life support , in which case she would die within a matter of hours , or they could keep her on life support , in which case she might still die within a matter of days .
if she survived , she would remain in a permanent vegetative state , never able to walk , talk or interact with others .
what do they do ?
what do any parent do ?
in a study i conducted with simona botti and kristina orfali , american and french parents were interviewed .
they had all suffered the same tragedy .
in all cases , the life support was removed , and the infants had died .
but there was a big difference .
in france , the doctors decided whether and when the life support would be removed , while in the united states , the final decision rested with the parents .
we wondered : does this have an effect on how the parents cope with the loss of their loved one ?
we found that it did .
even up to a year later , american parents were more likely to express negative emotions , as compared to their french counterparts .
french parents were more likely to say things like , " noah was here for so little time , but he taught us so much .
he gave us a new perspective on life . " american parents were more likely to say things like , " what if ? what if ? "
another parent complained , " i feel as if they purposefully tortured me .
how did they get me to do that ? " and another parent said , " i feel as if i 've played a role in an execution . " but when the american parents were asked if they would rather have had the doctors make the decision , they all said , " no . "
they could not imagine turning that choice over to another , even though having made that choice made them feel trapped , guilty , angry .
in a number of cases they were even clinically depressed .
these parents could not contemplate giving up the choice , because to do so would have gone contrary to everything they had been taught and everything they had come to believe about the power and purpose of choice .
in her essay , " the white album , " joan didion writes , " we tell ourselves stories in order to live .
we interpret what we see , select the most workable of the multiple choices .
we live entirely by the imposition of a narrative line upon disparate images , by the idea with which we have learned to freeze the shifting phantasmagoria , which is our actual experience . " the story americans tell , the story upon which the american dream depends , is the story of limitless choice .
this narrative promises so much : freedom , happiness , success .
it lays the world at your feet and says , " you can have anything , everything . "
it 's a great story , and it 's understandable why they would be reluctant to revise it .
but when you take a close look , you start to see the holes , and you start to see that the story can be told in many other ways .
americans have so often tried to disseminate their ideas of choice , believing that they will be , or ought to be , welcomed with open hearts and minds .
but the history books and the daily news tell us it doesn 't always work out that way .
the phantasmagoria , the actual experience that we try to understand and organize through narrative , varies from place to place .
no single narrative serves the needs of everyone everywhere .
moreover , americans themselves could benefit from incorporating new perspectives into their own narrative , which has been driving their choices for so long .
robert frost once said that , " it is poetry that is lost in translation . "
this suggests that whatever is beautiful and moving , whatever gives us a new way to see , cannot be communicated to those who speak a different language .
but joseph brodsky said that , " it is poetry that is gained in translation , " suggesting that translation can be a creative , transformative act .
when it comes to choice , we have far more to gain than to lose by engaging in the many translations of the narratives .
instead of replacing one story with another , we can learn from and revel in the many versions that exist and the many that have yet to be written .
no matter where we 're from and what your narrative is , we all have a responsibility to open ourselves up to a wider array of what choice can do , and what it can represent . and this does not lead to a paralyzing moral relativism .
rather , it teaches us when and how to act .
it brings us that much closer to realizing the full potential of choice , to inspiring the hope and achieving the freedom that choice promises but doesn 't always deliver .
if we learn to speak to one another , albeit through translation , then we can begin to see choice in all its strangeness , complexity and compelling beauty .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you .
sheena , there is a detail about your biography that we have not written in the program book .
but by now it 's evident to everyone in this room . you 're blind .
and i guess one of the questions on everybody 's mind is : how does that influence your study of choosing because that 's an activity that for most people is associated with visual inputs like aesthetics and color and so on ?
sheena iyengar : well , it 's funny that you should ask that because one of the things that 's interesting about being blind is you actually get a different vantage point when you observe the way sighted people make choices .
and as you just mentioned , there 's lots of choices out there that are very visual these days .
yeah , i -- as you would expect -- get pretty frustrated by choices like what nail polish to put on because i have to rely on what other people suggest .
and i can 't decide .
and so one time i was in a beauty salon , and i was trying to decide between two very light shades of pink .
and one was called " ballet slippers . "
and the other one was called " adorable . "
and so i asked these two ladies ,
and the one lady told me , " well , you should definitely wear ' ballet slippers . ' "
" well , what does it look like ? "
" well , it 's a very elegant shade of pink . "
" okay , great . "
the other lady tells me to wear " adorable . "
" what does it look like ? "
" it 's a glamorous shade of pink . "
and so i asked them , " well , how do i tell them apart ?
what 's different about them ? " and they said , " well , one is elegant , the other one 's glamorous . "
okay , we got that .
and the only thing they had consensus on : well , if i could see them , i would clearly be able to tell them apart .
and what i wondered was whether they were being affected by the name or the content of the color ,
so i decided to do a little experiment .
so i brought these two bottles of nail polish into the laboratory , and i stripped the labels off .
and i brought women into the laboratory , and i asked them , " which one would you pick ? "
50 percent of the women accused me of playing a trick , of putting the same color nail polish in both those bottles .
at which point you start to wonder who the trick 's really played on .
now , of the women that could tell them apart , when the labels were off , they picked " adorable , " and when the labels were on , they picked " ballet slippers . "
so as far as i can tell , a rose by any other name probably does look different and maybe even smells different .
bg : thank you . sheena iyengar . thank you sheena .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / peter _ hirshberg _ on _ tv _ and _ the _ web.html
in this absorbing look at emerging media and tech history , peter hirshberg shares some crucial lessons from silicon valley and explains why the web is so much more than " better tv . "
business , history , media , technology , telecom
339
peter hirshberg on tv and the web
well , good morning .
you know , the computer and television both recently turned 60 , and today i 'd like to talk about their relationship .
despite their middle age , if you 've been following the themes of this conference or the entertainment industry , it 's pretty clear that one has been picking on the other .
so it 's about time that we talked about how the computer ambushed television ,
or why the invention of the atomic bomb unleashed forces that lead to the writers ' strike .
and it 's not just what these are doing to each other , but it 's what the audience thinks that really frames this matter .
to get a sense of this , and it 's been a theme we 've talked about all week , i recently talked to a bunch of tweeners .
i wrote on cards : " television , " " radio , " " myspace , " " internet , " " pc . "
and i said , just arrange these , from what 's important to you and what 's not , and then tell me why .
let 's listen to what happens when they get to the portion of the discussion on television .
girl 1 : well , i think it 's important but , like , not necessary because you can do a lot of other stuff with your free time than watch programs .
peter hirshberg : which is more fun , internet or tv ?
girls : internet .
girl 2 : i think we -- the reasons , one of the reasons we put computer before tv is because nowadays , like , we have tv shows on the computer .
girl 2 : and then you can download onto your ipod .
ph : would you like to be the president of a tv network ?
girl 4 : i wouldn 't like it .
girl 2 : that would be so stressful .
girl 5 : no .
ph : how come ?
girl 5 : because they 're going to lose all their money eventually .
girl 3 : like the stock market , it goes up and down and stuff .
i think right now the computers will be at the top and everything will be kind of going down and stuff .
ph : there 's been an uneasy relationship between the tv business and the tech business , really ever since they both turned about 30 .
we go through periods of enthrallment , followed by reactions in boardrooms , in the finance community best characterized as , what 's the finance term ? ick pooey .
let me give you an example of this . the year is 1976 , and warner buys atari because video games are on the rise .
the next year they march forward and they introduce qube , the first interactive cable tv system , and the new york times heralds this as telecommunications moving to the home , convergence , great things are happening .
everybody in the east coast gets in the pictures -- citicorp , penney , rca -- all getting into this big vision .
by the way , this is about when i enter the picture .
i 'm going to do a summer internship at time warner .
that summer i 'm all -- i 'm at warner that summer -- i 'm all excited to work on convergence , and then the bottom falls out .
doesn 't work out too well for them , they lose money .
and i had a happy brush with convergence until , kind of , warner basically has to liquidate the whole thing .
that 's when i leave graduate school , and i can 't work in new york on kind of entertainment and technology because i have to be exiled to california , where the remaining jobs are , almost to the sea , to go to work for apple computer .
warner , of course , writes off more than 400 million dollars .
four hundred million dollars , which was real money back in the ' 70s .
but they were onto something and they got better at it .
by the year 2000 , the process was perfected . they merged with aol , and in just four years , managed to shed about 200 billion dollars of market capitalization , showing that they 'd actually mastered the art of applying moore 's law of successive miniaturization to their balance sheet .
now , i think that one reason that the media and the entertainment communities , or the media community , is driven so crazy by the tech community is that tech folks talk differently .
you know , for 50 years , we 've talked about changing the world , about total transformation .
for 50 years , it 's been about hopes and fears and promises of a better world . and i got to thinking , you know , who else talks that way ?
and the answer is pretty clearly -- it 's people in religion and in politics .
and so i realized that actually the tech world is best understood , not as a business cycle , but as a messianic movement .
we promise something great , we evangelize it , we 're going to change the world . it doesn 't work out too well , and so we actually go back to the well and start all over again , as the people in new york and l.a. look on in absolute , morbid astonishment .
but it 's this irrational view of things that drives us on to the next thing .
so , what i 'd like to ask is , if the computer is becoming a principal tool of media and entertainment , how did we get here ?
i mean , how did a machine that was built for accounting and artillery morph into media ?
of course , the first computer was built just after world war ii to solve military problems , but things got really interesting just a couple of years later -- 1949 with whirlwind ,
built at mit 's lincoln lab . jay forrester was building this for the navy , but you can 't help but see that the creator of this machine had in mind a machine that might actually be a potential media star .
so take a look at what happens when the foremost journalist of early television meets one of the foremost computer pioneers , and the computer begins to express itself .
journalist : it 's a whirlwind electronic computer .
with considerable trepidation , we undertake to interview this new machine .
jay forrester : hello new york , this is cambridge .
and this is the oscilloscope of the whirlwind electronic computer .
would you like if i used the machine ?
journalist : yes , of course . but i have an idea , mr. forrester .
since this computer was made in conjunction with the office of naval research , why don 't we switch down to the pentagon in washington and let the navy 's research chief , admiral bolster , give whirlwind the workout ?
calvin bolster : well , ed , this problem concerns the navy 's viking rocket .
this rocket goes up 135 miles into the sky .
now , at the standard rate of fuel consumption , i would like to see the computer trace the flight path of this rocket and see how it can determine , at any instant , say at the end of 40 seconds , the amount of fuel remaining , and the velocity at that set instant .
jf : over on the left-hand side , you will notice fuel consumption decreasing as the rocket takes off .
and on the right-hand side , there 's a scale that shows the rocket 's velocity .
the rocket 's position is shown by the trajectory that we 're now looking at .
and as it reaches the peak of its trajectory , the velocity , you will notice , has dropped off to a minimum .
then , as the rocket dives down , velocity picks up again toward a maximum velocity and the rocket hits the ground .
how 's that ?
journalist : what about that , admiral ?
cb : looks very good to me .
jf : and before leaving , we would like to show you another kind of mathematical problem that some of the boys have worked out in their spare time , in a less serious vein , for a sunday afternoon .
journalist : thank you very much indeed , mr. forrester and the mit lab .
ph : you know , so much was worked out : the first real-time interaction , the video display , pointing a gun . it lead to the microcomputer , but unfortunately , it was too pricey for the navy , and all of this would have been lost if it weren 't for a happy coincidence .
enter the atomic bomb .
we 're threatened by the greatest weapon ever , and knowing a good thing when it sees it , the air force decides it needs the biggest computer ever to protect us .
they adapt whirlwind to a massive air defense system , deploy it all across the frozen north , and spend nearly three times as much on this computer as was spent on the manhattan project building the a-bomb in the first place .
talk about a shot in the arm for the computer industry .
and you can imagine that the air force became a pretty good salesman .
here 's their marketing video .
narrator : in a mass raid , high-speed bombers could be in on us before we could determine their tracks .
and then it would be too late to act .
we cannot afford to take that chance .
it is to meet this threat that the air force has been developing sage , the semi-automatic ground environment system , to strengthen our air defenses .
this new computer , built to become the nerve center of a defense network , is able to perform all the complex mathematical problems involved in countering a mass enemy raid .
it is provided with its own powerhouse containing large diesel-driven generators , air-conditioning equipment , and cooling towers required to cool the thousands of vacuum tubes in the computer .
ph : you know , that one computer was huge .
there 's an interesting marketing lesson from it , which is basically , when you market a product , you can either say , this is going to be wonderful , it will make you feel better and enliven you . or there 's one other marketing proposition : if you don 't use our product , you 'll die .
this is a really good example of that .
this had the first pointing device . it was distributed , so it worked out -- distributed computing and modems -- so all these things could talk to each other .
about 20 percent of all the nation 's programmers were wrapped up in this thing , and it led to an awful lot of what we have today . it also used vacuum tubes .
you saw how huge it was , and to give you a sense for this -- because we 've talked a lot about moore 's law and making things small at this conference , so let 's talk about making things large .
if we took whirlwind and put it in a place that you all know , say , century city , it would fit beautifully .
you 'd kind of have to take century city out , but it could fit in there .
but like , let 's imagine we took the latest pentium processor , the latest core 2 extreme , which is a four-core processor that intel 's working on , it will be our laptop tomorrow .
to build that , what we 'd do with whirlwind technology is we 'd have to take up roughly from the 10 to mulholland , and from the 405 to la cienega just with those whirlwinds .
and then , the 92 nuclear power plants that it would take to provide the power would fill up the rest of los angeles .
that 's roughly a third more nuclear power than all of france creates .
so , the next time they tell you they 're on to something , clearly they 're not .
so -- and we haven 't even worked out the cooling needs .
but it gives you the kind of power that people have , that the audience has , and the reasons these transformations are happening .
all of this stuff starts moving into industry .
dec kind of reduces all this and makes the first mini-computer .
it shows up at places like mit , and then a mutation happens .
spacewar ! is built , the first computer game , and all of a sudden , interactivity and involvement and passion is worked out .
actually , many mit students stayed up all night long working on this thing , and many of the principles of gaming today were worked out .
dec knew a good thing about wasting time .
it shipped every one of its computers with that game .
meanwhile , as all of this is happening , by the mid- ' 50s , the business model of traditional broadcasting and cinema has been busted completely .
a new technology has confounded radio men and movie moguls and they 're quite certain that television is about to do them in .
in fact , despair is in the air .
and a quote that sounds largely reminiscent from everything i 've been reading all week . rca had david sarnoff , who basically commercialized radio , said this , " i don 't say that radio networks must die . every effort has been made and will continue to be made to find a new pattern , new selling arrangements and new types of programs that may arrest the declining revenues .
it may yet be possible to eke out a poor existence for radio , but i don 't know how . "
and of course , as the computer industry develops interactively , producers in the emerging tv business actually hit on the same idea .
and they fake it .
jack berry : boys and girls , i think you all know how to get your magic windows up on the set , you just get them out .
first of all , get your winky dink kits out .
put out your magic window and your erasing glove , and rub it like this .
that 's the way we get some of the magic into it , boys and girls .
then take it and put it right up against the screen of your own television set , and rub it out from the center to the corners , like this .
make sure you keep your magic crayons handy , your winky dink crayons and your erasing glove , because you 'll be using them during the show to draw like that .
you all set ? ok , let 's get right to the first story about dusty man .
come on into the secret lab .
ph : it was the dawn of interactive tv , and you may have noticed they wanted to sell you the winky dink kits .
those are the winky dink crayons . i know what you 're saying . " pete , i could use any ordinary open-source crayon , why do i have to buy theirs ? "
i assure you , that 's not the case .
turns out they told us directly that these are the only crayons you should ever use with your winky dink magic window , other crayons may discolor or hurt the window .
this proprietary principle of vendor lock-in would go on to be perfected with great success as one of the enduring principles of windowing systems everywhere .
it led to lawsuits -- -- federal investigations , and lots of repercussions , and that 's a scandal we won 't discuss today .
but we will discuss this scandal , because this man , jack berry , the host of " winky dink , " went on to become the host of " twenty one , " one of the most important quiz shows ever .
and it was rigged , and it became unraveled when this man , charles van doren , was outed after an unnatural winning streak , ending berry 's career .
and actually , ending the career of a lot of people at cbs .
it turns out there was a lot to learn about how this new medium worked .
and 50 years ago , if you 'd been at a meeting like this and were trying to understand the media , there was one prophet and only but one you wanted to hear from , professor marshall mcluhan .
he actually understood something about a theme that we 've been discussing all week . it 's the role of the audience in an era of pervasive electronic communications .
here he is talking from the 1960s .
marshall mcluhan : if the audience can become involved in the actual process of making the ad , then it 's happy . it 's like the old quiz shows . they were great tv because it gave the audience a role , something to do .
they were horrified when they discovered they 'd really been left out all the time because the shows were rigged .
now , then , this was a horrible misunderstanding of tv on the part of the programmers .
ph : you know , mcluhan talked about the global village .
if you substitute the word blogosphere , of the internet today , it is very true that his understanding is probably very enlightening now . let 's listen in to him .
mm : the global village is a world in which you don 't necessarily have harmony . you have extreme concern with everybody else 's business and much involvement in everybody else 's life .
it 's a sort of ann landers ' column writ large .
and it doesn 't necessarily mean harmony and peace and quiet , but it does mean huge involvement in everybody else 's affairs .
and so the global village is as big as a planet , and as small as a village post office .
ph : we 'll talk a little bit more about him later .
we 're now right into the 1960s .
it 's the era of big business and data centers for computing .
but all that was about to change .
you know , the expression of technology reflects the people and the time of the culture it was built in .
and when i say that code expresses our hopes and aspirations , it 's not just a joke about messianism , it 's actually what we do .
but for this part of the story , i 'd actually like to throw it to america 's leading technology correspondent , john markoff .
john markoff : do you want to know what the counterculture in drugs , sex , rock ' n ' roll and the anti-war movement had to do with computing ? everything .
it all happened within five miles of where i 'm standing , at stanford university , between 1960 and 1975 .
in the midst of revolution in the streets and rock and roll concerts in the parks , a group of researchers led by people like john mccarthy , a computer scientist at the stanford artificial intelligence lab , and doug engelbart , a computer scientist at sri , changed the world .
engelbart came out of a pretty dry engineering culture , but while he was beginning to do his work , all of this stuff was bubbling on the mid-peninsula .
there was lsd leaking out of kesey 's veterans ' hospital experiments and other areas around the campus , and there was music literally in the streets .
the grateful dead was playing in the pizza parlors .
people were leaving to go back to the land .
there was the vietnam war . there was black liberation . there was women 's liberation .
this was a remarkable place , at a remarkable time .
and into that ferment came the microprocessor .
i think it was that interaction that led to personal computing .
they saw these tools that were controlled by the establishment as ones that could actually be liberated and put to use by these communities that they were trying to build .
and most importantly , they had this ethos of sharing information .
i think these ideas are difficult to understand , because when you 're trapped in one paradigm , the next paradigm is always like a science fiction universe -- it makes no sense .
the stories were so compelling that i decided to write a book about them .
the title of the book is , " what the dormouse said : how the ' 60s counterculture shaped the personal computer industry . "
the title was taken from the lyrics to a jefferson airplane song . the lyrics go , " remember what the dormouse said . feed your head , feed your head , feed your head . "
ph : by this time , computing had kind of leapt into media territory , and in short order much of what we 're doing today was imagined in cambridge and silicon valley .
here 's the architecture machine group , the predecessor of the media lab , in 1981 .
meanwhile , in california , we were trying to commercialize a lot of this stuff .
hypercard was the first program to introduce the public to hyperlinks , where you could randomly hook to any kind of picture , or piece of text , or data across a file system , and we had no way of explaining it .
there was no metaphor . was it a database ?
a prototyping tool ? a scripted language ?
heck , it was everything . so we ended up writing a marketing brochure .
we asked a question about how the mind works , and we let our customers play the role of so many blind men filling out the elephant .
a few years later , we then hit on the idea of explaining to people the secret of , how do you get the content you want , the way you want it and the easy way ?
here 's the apple marketing video .
james burke : you 'll be pleased to know , i 'm sure , that there are several ways to create a hypercard interactive video .
the most involved method is to go ahead and produce your own videodisc as well as build your own hypercard stacks .
by far the simplest method is to buy a pre-made videodisc and hypercard stacks from a commercial supplier .
the method we illustrate in this video uses a pre-made videodisc but creates custom hypercard stacks .
this method allows you to use existing videodisc materials in ways which suit your specific needs and interests .
ph : i hope you realize how subversive that is .
that 's like a dick cheney speech .
you think he 's a nice balding guy , but he 's just declared war on the content business . find the commercial stuff , mash it up , tell the story your way .
now , as long as we confine this to the education market , and a personal matter between the computer and the file system , that 's fine , but as you can see , it was about to leap out and upset jack valenti and a lot of other people .
by the way , speaking of the filing system , it never occurred to us that these hyperlinks could go beyond the local area network .
a few years later , tim berners-lee worked that out .
it became a killer app of links , and today , of course , we call that the world wide web .
now , not only was i instrumental in helping apple miss the internet , but a couple of years later , i helped bill gates do the same thing .
the year is 1993
and he was working on a book and i was working on a video to help him kind of explain where we were all heading and how to popularize all this .
we were plenty aware that we were messing with media , and on the surface , it looks like we predicted a lot of the right things , but we also missed an awful lot . let 's take a look .
narrator : the pyramids , the colosseum , the new york subway system and tv dinners , ancient and modern wonders of the man-made world all .
yet each pales to insignificance with the completion of that magnificent accomplishment of twenty-first-century technology , the digital superhighway .
once it was only a dream of technoids and a few long-forgotten politicians .
the digital highway arrived in america 's living rooms late in the twentieth century .
let us recall the pioneers who made this technical marvel possible .
the digital highway would follow the rutted trail first blazed by alexander graham bell .
though some were incredulous ... man 1 : the phone company !
narrator : stirred by the prospects of mass communication and making big bucks on advertising , david sarnoff commercializes radio .
man 2 : never had scientists been put under such pressure and demand .
narrator : the medium introduced america to new products .
voice 1 : say , mom , windows for radio means more enjoyment and greater ease of use for the whole family .
be sure to enjoy windows for radio at home and at work .
narrator : in 1939 , the radio corporation of america introduced television .
man 2 : never had scientists been put under such pressure and demand .
narrator : eventually , the race to the future took on added momentum with the breakup of the telephone company .
and further stimulus came with the deregulation of the cable television industry , and the re-regulation of the cable television industry .
ted turner : we did the work to build this , this cable industry , now the broadcasters want some of our money . i mean , it 's ridiculous .
narrator : computers , once the unwieldy tools of accountants and other geeks , escaped the backrooms to enter the media fracas .
the world and all its culture reduced to bits , the lingua franca of all media .
and the forces of convergence exploded .
finally , four great industrial sectors combined .
telecommunications , entertainment , computing and everything else .
man 3 : we 'll see channels for the gourmet and we 'll see channels for the pet lover .
voice 2 : next on the gourmet pet channel , decorating birthday cakes for your schnauzer .
narrator : all of industry was in play , as investors flocked to place their bets .
at stake : the battle for you , the consumer , and the right to spend billions to send a lot of information into the parlors of america .
ph : we missed a lot . you know , you missed , we missed the internet , the long tail , the role of the audience , open systems , social networks .
it just goes to show how tough it is to come up with the right uses of media .
thomas edison had the same problem .
he wrote a list of what the phonograph might be good for when he invented it , and kind of only one of his ideas turned out to have been the right early idea .
well , you know where we 're going on from here .
we come into the era of the dotcom , the world wide web , and i don 't need to tell you about that because we all went through that bubble together .
but when we emerge from this and what we call web 2.0 , things actually are quite different . and i think it 's the reason that tv 's so challenged .
if internet one was about pages , now it 's about people .
it 's a customer , it 's an audience , it 's a person who 's participating .
it 's the formidable thing that is changing entertainment now .
mm : because it gave the audience a role , something to do .
ph : in my own company , technorati , we see something like 67,000 blog posts an hour come in .
that 's about 2,700 fresh , connective links across about 112 million blogs that are out there .
and it 's no wonder that as we head into the writers ' strike , odd things happen .
you know , it reminds me of that old saw in hollywood , that a producer is anyone who knows a writer .
i now think a network boss is anyone who has a cable modem .
but it 's not a joke . this is a real headline . " websites attract striking writers :
operators of sites like mydamnchannel.com could benefit from labor disputes . "
meanwhile , you have the tv bloggers going out on strike , in sympathy with the television writers .
and then you have tv guide , a fox property , which is about to sponsor the online video awards -- but cancels it out of sympathy with traditional television , not appearing to gloat .
to show you how schizophrenic this all is , here 's the head of myspace , or fox interactive , a news corp company , being asked , well , with the writers ' strike , isn 't this going to hurt news corp and help you online ?
man : but i , yeah , i think there 's an opportunity . as the strike continues , there 's an opportunity for more people to experience video on places like myspace tv .
ph : oh , but then he remembers he works for rupert murdoch .
man : yes , well , first , you know , i 'm part of news corporation as part of fox entertainment group . obviously , we hope that the strike is -- that the issues are resolved as quickly as possible .
ph : one of the great things that 's going on here is the globalization of content really is happening .
here is a clip from a video , from a piece of animation that was written by a writer in hollywood , animation worked out in israel , farmed out to croatia and india , and it 's now an international series .
narrator : the following takes place between the minutes of 2 : 15 p.m. and 2 : 18 p.m. ,
in the months preceding the presidential primaries .
voice 1 : you 'll have to stay here in the safe house until we get word the terrorist threat is over .
voice 2 : you mean we 'll have to live here , together ?
voice 2 : well , there goes the neighborhood .
ph : the company that created this , aniboom , is an interesting example of where this is headed . traditional tv animation costs , say , between 80,000 and 10,000 dollars a minute .
they 're producing things for between 1,500 and 800 dollars a minute .
and they 're offering their creators 30 percent of the back end , in a much more entrepreneurial manner . so , it 's a different model .
what the entertainment business is struggling with , the world of brands is figuring out .
for example , nike now understands that nike plus is not just a device in its shoe , it 's a network to hook its customers together .
and the head of marketing at nike says , " people are coming to our site an average of three times a week . we don 't have to go to them . " which means television advertising is down 57 percent for nike .
or , as nike 's head of marketing says , " we 're not in the business of keeping media companies alive .
we 're in the business of connecting with consumers . "
and media companies realize the audience is important also .
here 's a man announcing the new market watch from dow jones , powered 100 percent by the user experience on the home page -- user-generated content married up with traditional content .
it turns out you have a bigger audience and more interest if you hook up with them .
or , as geoffrey moore once told me , it 's intellectual curiosity that 's the trade that brands need in the age of the blogosphere .
and i think this is beginning to happen in the entertainment business .
one of my heroes is songwriter , ally willis , who just wrote " the color purple " and has been an r and -- rhythm and blues writer , and this is what she said about where songwriting 's going .
ally willis : where millions of collaborators wanted the song , because to look at them strictly as spam is missing what this medium is about .
ph : so , to wrap up , i 'd love to throw it back to marshall mcluhan , who , 40 years ago , was dealing with audiences that were going through just as much change , and i think that , today , traditional hollywood and the writers are framing this perhaps in the way that it was being framed before .
but i don 't need to tell you this , let 's throw it back to him .
narrator : we are in the middle of a tremendous clash between the old and the new .
mm : the medium does things to people and they are always completely unaware of this .
they don 't really notice the new medium that is wrapping them up .
they think of the old medium , because the old medium is always the content of the new medium , as movies tend to be the content of tv , and as books used to be the content , novels used to be the content of movies .
and so every time a new medium arrives , the old medium is the content , and it is highly observable , highly noticeable , but the real , real roughing up and massaging is done by the new medium , and it is ignored .
ph : i think it 's a great time of enthrallment .
there 's been more raw dna of communications and media thrown out there . content is moving from shows to particles that are batted back and forth , and part of social communications , and i think this is going to be a time of great renaissance and opportunity .
and whereas television may have gotten beat up , what 's getting built is a really exciting new form of communication , and we kind of have the merger of the two industries and a new way of thinking to look at it .
thanks very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / rob _ forbes _ on _ ways _ of _ seeing.html
rob forbes , the founder of design within reach , shows a gallery of snapshots that inform his way of seeing the world . charming juxtapositions , found art , urban patterns -- this slideshow will open your eyes to the world around you .
arts , beauty , business , design , exploration , photography
431
rob forbes on ways of seeing
i was listed on the online biography that said i was a design missionary .
that 's a bit lofty ; i 'm really more of something like a street walker .
i spend a lot of time in urban areas looking for design , and studying design in the public sector .
i take about 5,000 photographs a year , and i thought that i would edit from these , and try to come up with some images that might be appropriate and interesting to you .
and i used three criteria : the first was , i thought i 'd talk about real design within reach , design that 's free , not design not quite within reach , as we 're fondly known by our competition and competitors , but stuff that you can find on the streets , stuff that was free , stuff that was available to all people , and stuff that probably contains some other important messages .
i 'll use these sidewalks in rio as an example .
a very common public design done in the ' 50s .
it 's got a nice kind of flowing , organic form , very consistent with the brazilian culture --
i think good design adds to culture .
wholly inconsistent with san francisco or new york .
but i think these are my sort of information highways : i live in much more of an analog world , where pedestrian traffic and interaction and diversity exchange , and where i think the simple things under our feet have a great amount of meaning to us .
how did i get started in this business ?
i was a ceramic designer for about 10 years , and just loved utilitarian form --
simple things that we use every day , little compositions of color and surface on form .
this led me to starting a company called design within reach , a company dealing with simple forms , making good designers available to us , and also selling the personalities and character of the designers as well , and it seems to have worked .
a couple of years into the process , i spent a lot of time in europe traveling around , looking for design .
and i had a bit of a wake-up call in amsterdam : i was there going into the design stores , and mixing with our crowd of designers , and i recognized that a whole lot of stuff pretty much looked the same , and the effect of globalization has had that in our community also .
we know a lot about what 's going on with design around the world , and it 's getting increasingly more difficult to find design that reflects a unique culture .
i was walking around on the streets of amsterdam and i recognized , you know , the big story from amsterdam isn 't what 's in the design stores , it 's what 's out on the streets , and maybe it 's self-explanatory , but a city that hasn 't been taken over by modernism , that 's preserved its kind of architecture and character , and where the bicycle plays an important part of the way in which people get around and where pedestrian rights are protected .
and i write a newsletter that goes out every week , and i wrote an article about this , and it got such enormous response that i realized that design , that common design , that 's in the public area means a lot to people , and establishes kind of a groundwork and a dialog .
i then kind of thought about the other cities in europe where i spend a lot of time looking for design , like basel , where vitra is located , or in northern italy --
all cities where there are a whole lot of bicycles , and where pedestrian areas -- and i came to the conclusion that perhaps there was something about these important design centers that dealt with bicycles and foot traffic , and i 'm sure the skeptic eye would say , no , the correlation there is that there are universities and schools where people can 't afford cars , but it did seem that in many of these areas pedestrian traffic was protected .
you wouldn 't look at this and call this a designer bike : a designer bike is made of titanium or molybdenum .
but i began looking at design in a place like amsterdam and recognized , you know , the first job of design is to serve a social purpose .
and so i look at this bike as not being a designer bike , but being a very good example of design .
and since that time in amsterdam , i spent an increasing amount of time in the cities , looking at design for common evidence of design that really isn 't under so much of a designer 's signature .
i was in buenos aires very recently , and i went to see this bridge by santiago calatrava .
he 's a spanish architect and designer .
and the tourist brochures pointed me in the direction of this bridge --
i love bridges , metaphorically and symbolically and structurally --
and it was a bit of a disappointment , because of the sludge from the river was encrusted on it ; it really wasn 't in use .
and i recognized that oftentimes design , when you 're set up to see design , it can be a bit of a letdown .
but there were lots of other things going on in this area : it was a kind of construction zone ; a lot of buildings were going up .
and , approaching a building from a distance , you don 't see too much ; you get a little closer , and you arrive at a nice little composition that might remind you of a mondrian or a diebenkorn or something .
but to me it was an example of industrial materials with a little bit of colors and animation and a nice little still life -- kind of unintended piece of design .
and going a little closer , you get a different perspective .
i find these little vignettes , these little accidental pieces of design , to be refreshing .
they give me , i don 't know , a sense of correctness in the world and some visual delight in the knowledge that the building will probably never look as good as this simple industrial scaffolding that is there to serve .
down the road , there was another building , a nice visual structure : horizontal , vertical elements , little decorative lines going across , these magenta squiggles , the workmen being reduced to decorative elements , just a nice , kind of , breakup of the urban place .
and , you know , that no longer exists .
you 've captured it for a moment , and finding this little still life 's like listening to little songs or something : it gives me an enormous amount of pleasure .
antoine predock designed a wonderful ball stadium in san diego called petco park .
a terrific use of local materials , but inside you could find some interior compositions .
some people go to baseball stadiums to look at games ; i go and see design relationships .
just a wonderful kind of breakup of architecture , and the way that the trees form vertical elements .
red is a color in the landscape that is often on stop signs .
it takes your attention ; it has a great amount of emotion ; it stares back at you the way that a figure might .
just a piece of barrier tape construction stuff in italy .
construction site in new york : red having this kind of emotional power that 's almost an equivalent with the way in which --
cuteness of puppies and such .
side street in italy .
red drew me into this little composition , optimistic to me in the sense that maybe the public service 's mailbox , door service , plumbing . it looks as if these different public services work together to create some nice little compositions .
in italy , you know , almost everything , kind of , looks good .
simple menus put on a board , achieving , kind of , the sort of balance .
but i 'm convinced that it 's because you 're walking around the streets and seeing things .
red can be comical : it can draw your attention to the poor little personality of the little fire hydrant suffering from bad civic planning in havana .
color can animate simple blocks , simple materials : walking in new york , i 'll stop .
i don 't always know why i take photographs of things .
a nice visual composition of symmetry .
curves against sharp things .
it 's a comment on the way in which we deal with public seating in the city of new york .
i 've come across some other just , kind of , curious relationships of bollards on the street that have different interpretations , but -- these things amuse me .
sometimes a trash can -- this is just in the street in san francisco --
a trash can that 's been left there for 18 months creates a nice 45-degree angle against these other relationships , and turns a common parking spot into a nice little piece of sculpture .
so , there 's this sort of silent hand of design at work that i see in places that i go .
havana is a wonderful area .
it 's quite free of commercial clutter : you don 't see our logos and brands and names , and therefore you 're alert to things physically .
and this is a great protection of a pedestrian zone , and the repurposing of some colonial cannons to do that .
and cuba needs to be far more resourceful , because of the blockades and things , but a really wonderful playground .
i 've often wondered why italy is really a leader in modern design .
in our area , in furnishings , they 're sort of way at the top .
the dutch are good also , but the italians are good .
and i came across this little street in venice , where the communist headquarters were sharing a wall with this catholic shrine .
and i realized that , you know , italy is a place where they can accept these different ideologies and deal with diversity and not have the problem , or they can choose to ignore them , but these -- you don 't have warring factions , and i think that maybe the tolerance of the absurdity which has made italy so innovative and so tolerant .
the past and the present work quite well together in italy also , and i think that it 's recognizable there , and has an important effect on culture , because their public spaces are protected , their sidewalks are protected , and you 're actually able to confront these things physically , and i think this helps people get over their fear of modernism and other such things .
a change might be a typical street corner in san francisco .
and i use this -- this is , sort of , what i consider to be urban spam .
i notice this stuff because i walk a lot , but here , private industry is really kind of making a mess of the public sector .
and as i look at it , i sort of say , you know , the publications that report on problems in the urban area also contribute to it , and it 's just my call to say to all of us , public policy won 't change this at all ; private industry has to work to take things like this seriously .
the extreme might be in italy where , again , there 's kind of some type of control over what 's happening in the environment is very evident , even in the way that they sell and distribute periodicals .
i walk to work every day or ride my scooter , and i come down and park in this little spot .
and i came down one day , and all the bikes were red .
now , this is not going to impress you guys who photoshop , and can do stuff , but this was an actual moment when i got off my bike , and i looked and i thought , it 's as if all of my biker brethren had kind of gotten together and conspired to make a little statement .
and it reminded me that --
to keep in the present , to look out for these kinds of things .
it gave me possibilities for wonder --
if maybe it 's a yellow day in san francisco , and we could all agree , and create some installations .
but it also reminded me of the power of pattern and repetition to make an effect in our mind .
and i don 't know if there 's a stronger kind of effect than pattern and the way it unites kind of disparate elements .
i was at the art show in miami in december , and spent a couple of hours looking at fine art , and amazed at the prices of art and how expensive it is , but having a great time looking at it .
and i came outside , and the valets for this car service had created , you know , quite a nice little collage of these car keys , and my closest equivalent were a group of prayer tags that i had seen in tokyo .
and i thought that if pattern can unite these disparate elements , it can do just about anything .
i don 't have very many shots of people , because they kind of get in the way of studying pure form .
i was in a small restaurant in spain , having lunch --
one of those nice days where you had the place kind of to yourself , and you have a glass of wine , and enjoying the local area and the culture and the food and the quiet , and feeling very lucky , and a bus load of tourists arrived , emptied out , filled up the restaurant .
in a very short period of time , completely changed the atmosphere and character with loud voices and large bodies and such , and we had to get up and leave ; it was just that uncomfortable .
and at that moment , the sun came out , and through this perforated screen , a pattern was cast over these bodies and they kind of faded into the rear , and we left the restaurant kind of feeling o.k. about stuff .
and i do think pattern has the capability of eradicating some of the most evil forces of society , such as bad form in restaurants , but quite seriously , it was a statement to me that one thing that you do , sort of , see is the aggressive nature of the industrial world has produced --
kind of , large masses of things , and when you -- in monoculture , and i think the preservation of diversity in culture is something that 's important to us .
the last shots that i have deal with --
coming back to this theme of sidewalks , and i wanted to say something here about -- i 'm , kind of , optimistic , you know .
post-second world war , the influence of the automobile has really been devastating in a lot of our cities .
a lot of urban areas have been converted into parking lots in a sort of indiscriminate use .
a lot of the planning departments became subordinated to the transportation department . it 's as easy to rag on cars as it is on wal-mart ; i 'm not going to do that .
but they 're real examples in urbanization and the change that 's occurred in the last number of years , and the heightened sensitivity to the importance of our urban environments as cultural centers .
i think that they are , that the statements that we make in this public sector are our contributions to a larger whole .
cities are the place where we 're most likely to encounter diversity and to mix with other people .
we go there for stimulation in art and all those other things .
but i think people have recognized the sanctity of our urban areas .
a place like chicago has really reached kind of a level of international stature .
the u.s. is actually becoming a bit of a leader in kind of enlightened urban planning and renewal , and i want to single out a place like chicago , where i look at some guy like mayor daley as a bit of a design hero for being able to work through the political processes and all that to improve an area .
you would expect a city like this to have upgraded flower boxes on michigan avenue where wealthy people shop , but if you actually go along the street you find the flower boxes change from street to street : there 's actual diversity in the plants .
and the idea that a city group can maintain different types of foliage is really quite exceptional .
there are common elements of this that you 'll see throughout chicago , and then there are your big-d design statements : the pritzker pavilion done by frank gehry .
my measure of this as being an important bit of design is not so much the way that it looks , but the fact that it performs a very important social function .
there are a lot of free concerts , for example , that go on in this area ; it has a phenomenal acoustic system .
but the commitment that the city has made to the public area is significant , and almost an international model .
i work on the mayor 's council in san francisco , on the international design council for mayors , and chicago is looked at as the pinnacle , and i really would like to salute mayor daley and the folks there .
i thought that i should include at least one shot of technology for you guys .
this is also in millennium park in chicago , where the spanish artist-designer plensa has created , kind of , a digital readout in this park that reflects back the characters and personalities of the people in this area .
and it 's a welcoming area , i think , inclusive of diversity , reflective of diversity , and i think this marriage of both technology and art in the public sector is an area where the u.s. can really take a leadership role , and chicago is one example .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / niels _ diffrient _ rethinks _ the _ way _ we _ sit _ at _ work.html
design legend niels diffrient talks about his life in industrial design . he details his quest to completely rethink the office chair starting from one fundamental data set : the human body .
business , design , technology , work
520
niels diffrient rethinks the way we sit down
when i was five years old i fell in love with airplanes .
now i 'm talking about the ' 30s .
in the ' 30s an airplane had two wings and a round motor ,
and was always flown by a guy who looked like cary grant .
he had high leather boots , jodhpurs , an old leather jacket , a wonderful helmet and those marvelous goggles -- and , inevitably , a white scarf , to flow in the wind .
he 'd always walk up to his airplane in a kind of saunter , devil-may-care saunter , flick the cigarette away , grab the girl waiting here , give her a kiss .
and then mount his airplane , maybe for the last time .
of course i always wondered what would happen if he 'd kissed the airplane first .
but this was real romance to me .
everything about flying in those years , which was -- you have to stop and think for a moment -- was probably the most advanced technological thing going on at the time .
so as a youngster , i tried to get close to this by drawing airplanes , constantly drawing airplanes .
it 's the way i got a part of this romance .
and of course , in a way , when i say romance , i mean in part the aesthetics of that whole situation .
i think the word is the holistic experience revolving around a product .
the product was that airplane .
but it built a romance .
even the parts of the airplane had french names .
ze fuselage , ze empanage , ze nessal . you know , from a romance language .
so that it was something that just got into your spirit .
it did mine .
and i decided i had to get closer than just drawing fantasy airplanes .
i wanted to build airplanes .
so i built model airplanes .
and i found that in doing the model airplanes the appearance drawings were not enough .
you couldn 't transfer those to the model itself .
if you wanted it to fly you had to learn the discipline of flying .
you had to learn about aeronautics .
you had to learn what made an airplane stay in the air .
and of course , as a model in those years , you couldn 't control it .
so it had to be self-righting , and stay up without crashing .
so i had to give up the approach of drawing the fantasy shapes and convert it to technical drawings --
the shape of the wing , the shape of the fuselage and so on --
and build an airplane over these drawings that i knew followed some of the principles of flying .
and in so doing , i could produce a model that would fly , stay in the air .
and it had , once it was in the air , some of this romance that i was in love with .
well the act of drawing airplanes led me to , when i had the opportunity to choose a course in school , led me to sign up for aeronautical engineering .
and when i was sitting in classes -- in which no one asked me to draw an airplane -- to my surprise .
i had to learn mathematics and mechanics and all this sort of thing .
i 'd wile away my time drawing airplanes in the class .
one day a young man looked over my shoulder , he said , " you draw very well .
you should be in the art department . " and i said , " why ? "
and he said , " well for one thing , there are more girls there . "
so my romance was temporarily shifted .
and i went into art because they appreciated drawing .
studied painting ; didn 't do very well at that .
went through design , some architecture .
eventually hired myself out as a designer .
and for the following 25 years , living in italy , living in america , i doled out a piece of this romance to anybody who 'd pay for it --
this sense , this aesthetic feeling , for the experience revolving around a designed object .
and it exists .
any of you who rode the automobiles -- was it yesterday ? -- at the track , you know the romance revolving around those high performance cars .
well in 25 years i was mostly putting out pieces of this romance and not getting a lot back in because design on call doesn 't always connect you with a circumstance in which you can produce things of this nature .
so after 25 years i began to feel as though i was running dry .
and i quit .
and i started up a very small operation -- went from 40 people to one , in an effort to rediscover my innocence .
i wanted to get back where the romance was .
and i couldn 't choose airplanes because they had gotten sort of unromantic at that point ,
even though i 'd done a lot of airplane work , on the interiors .
so i chose furniture .
and i chose chairs specifically because i knew something about them .
i 'd designed a lot of chairs , over the years for tractors and trucks and submarines --
all kinds of things .
but not office chairs .
so i started doing that .
and i found that there were ways to duplicate the same approach that i used to use on the airplane .
only this time , instead of the product being shaped by the wind , it was shaped by the human body .
so the discipline was -- as in the airplane you learn a lot about how to deal with the air , for a chair you have to learn a lot about how to deal with the body ,
and what the body needs , wants , indicates it needs .
and that 's the way , ultimately after some ups and downs , i ended up designing the chair i 'm going to show you .
i should say one more thing . when i was doing those model airplanes , i did everything .
i conceived the kind of airplane .
i basically engineered it .
i built it .
and i flew it .
and that 's the way i work now .
when i started this chair it was not a preconceived notion .
design nowadays , if you mean it , you don 't start with styling sketches .
i started with a lot of loose ideas ,
roughly eight or nine years ago .
and the loose ideas had something to do with what i knew happened with people in the office ,
at the work place -- people who worked , and used task seating , a great many of them sitting in front of a computer all day long .
and i felt , the one thing they don 't need , is a chair that interferes with their main reason for sitting there .
so i took the approach that the chair should do as much for them as humanly possible or as mechanistically possible so that they didn 't have to fuss with it .
so my idea was that , instead of sitting down and reaching for a lot of controls , that you would sit on the chair , and it would automatically balance your weight against the force required to recline .
now that may not mean a lot to some of you .
but you know most good chairs do recline because it 's beneficial to open up this joint between your legs and your upper body for better breathing and better flow .
so that if you sit down on my chair , whether you 're five feet tall or six foot six , it always deals with your weight and transfers the amount of force required to recline in a way that you don 't have to look for something to adjust .
i 'll tell you right up front , this is a trade off .
there are drawbacks to this .
one is : you can 't accommodate everybody .
there are some very light people ,
some extremely heavy people ,
maybe people with a lot of bulk up top .
they begin to fall off the end of your chart .
but the compromise , i felt , was in my favor because most people don 't adjust their chairs .
they will sit in them forever .
i had somebody on the bus out to the racetrack tell me about his sister calling him .
he said she had one of the new , better chairs .
she said , " oh i love it . "
she said , " but it 's too high . "
so he said , " well i 'll come over and look at it . "
he came over and looked at it .
he reached down . he pulled a lever . and the chair sank down .
she said , " oh it 's wonderful . how did you do that ? "
and he showed her the lever .
well , that 's typical of a lot of us working in chairs .
and why should you get a 20-page manual about how to run a chair ?
i had one for a wristwatch once . 20 pages .
anyway , i felt that it was important that you didn 't have to make an adjustment in order to get this kind of action .
the other thing i felt was that armrests had never really been properly approached
from the standpoint of how much of an aid they could be to your work life .
but i felt it was too much to ask to have to adjust each individual armrest in order to get it where you wanted .
so i spent a long time .
i said i worked eight or nine years on it .
and each of these things went along sort of in parallel but incrementally were a problem of their own .
i worked a long time on figuring out how to move the arms over a much greater arc -- that is up and down -- and make them a lot easier , so that you didn 't have to use a button .
and so after many trials , many failures , we came up with a very simple arrangement in which we could just move one arm or the other .
and they go up easily .
and stop where you want .
you can put them down , essentially out of the way .
no arms at all .
or you can pull them up where you want them .
and this was another thing that i felt ,
while not nearly as romantic as cary grant , nevertheless begins to grab a little bit of aesthetic operation , aesthetic performance into a product .
the next area that was of interest to me was the fact that reclining was a very important factor .
and the more you can recline , in a way , the better it is .
the more the angle between here and here opens up -- and nowadays , with a screen in front of you , you don 't want to have your eye drop too far in the recline , so we keep it at more or less the same level -- but you transfer weight off your tailbones .
would everybody put their hand under their bottom and feel their tailbone ?
you feel that bone under there ?
just your own .
there 's two of them , one on either side .
all the weight of your upper torso -- your arms , your head -- goes right down through your back , your spine , into those bones when you sit .
and that 's a lot of load .
just relieving your arms with armrests takes 20 percent of that load off .
now that , if your spine is not held in a good position , will help bend your spine the wrong way , and so on .
so to unload that great weight -- if that indeed exists -- you can recline .
when you recline you take away a lot of that load off your bottom end , and transfer it to your back .
at the same time , as i say , you open up this joint .
and breathability is good .
but to do that , if you have any amount of recline , it gets to the point where you need a headrest because nearly always , automatically hold your head in a vertical position , see ?
as i recline , my head says more or less vertical .
well if you 're reclined a great deal , you have to use muscle force to hold your head there .
so that 's where a headrest comes in .
now headrest is a challenge because you want it to adjust enough so that it 'll fit , you know , a tall guy and a short girl .
so here we are .
i 've got five inches of adjustment here in order to get the headrest in the right place .
but then i knew from experience and looking around in offices where there were chairs with headrests that nobody would ever bother to reach back and turn a knob and adjust the headrest to put it in position .
and you need it in a different position when you 're upright , then when you 're reclined .
so i knew that had to be solved , and had to be automatic .
so if you watch this chair as i recline , the headrest comes up to meet my neck .
ideally you want to put the head support in the cranial area , right there .
so that part of it took a long time to work out .
and there is a variety of other things : the shape of the cushions ,
the gel we put . we stole the idea from bicycle seats , and put gel in the cushions and in the armrests to absorb point load -- distributes the loading so you don 't get hard spots .
you cant hit your elbow on bottom .
and i did want to demonstrate the fact that the chair can accommodate people .
while you 're sitting in it you can adjust it down for the five-footer , or you can adjust it for the six-foot-six guy --
all within the scope of a few simple adjustments .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / hadyn _ parry _ re _ engineering _ mosquitos _ to _ fight _ disease.html
in a single year , there are 200-300 million cases of malaria and 50-100 million cases of dengue fever worldwide . so : why haven 't we found a way to effectively kill mosquitos yet ? hadyn parry presents a fascinating solution : genetically engineering male mosquitos to make them sterile , and releasing the insects into the wild , to cut down on disease-carrying species .
animals , biotech , disease , global issues , insects , pandemic , science , technology
1641
hadyn parry : re-engineering mosquitos to fight disease
so i 'd like to start by focusing on the world 's most dangerous animal .
now , when you talk about dangerous animals , most people might think of lions or tigers or sharks .
but of course the most dangerous animal is the mosquito .
the mosquito has killed more humans than any other creature in human history .
in fact , probably adding them all together , the mosquito has killed more humans .
and the mosquito has killed more humans than wars and plague .
and you would think , would you not , that with all our science , with all our advances in society , with better towns , better civilizations , better sanitation , wealth , that we would get better at controlling mosquitos , and hence reduce this disease .
and that 's not really the case .
if it was the case , we wouldn 't have between 200 and 300 million cases of malaria every year , and we wouldn 't have a million and a half deaths from malaria , and we wouldn 't have a disease that was relatively unknown 50 years ago now suddenly turned into the largest mosquito-borne virus threat that we have , and that 's called dengue fever .
so 50 years ago , pretty much no one had heard of it , no one certainly in the european environment .
but dengue fever now , according to the world health organization , infects between 50 and 100 million people every year , so that 's equivalent to the whole of the population of the u.k. being infected every year .
other estimates put that number at roughly double that number of infections .
and dengue fever has grown in speed quite phenomenally .
in the last 50 years , the incidence of dengue has grown thirtyfold .
now let me tell you a little bit about what dengue fever is , for those who don 't know .
now let 's assume you go on holiday .
let 's assume you go to the caribbean , or you might go to mexico . you might go to latin america , asia , africa , anywhere in saudi arabia .
you might go to india , the far east .
it doesn 't really matter . it 's the same mosquito , and it 's the same disease . you 're at risk .
and let 's assume you 're bitten by a mosquito that 's carrying that virus .
well , you could develop flu-like symptoms .
they could be quite mild .
you could develop nausea , headache , and you could actually feel like your bones are breaking .
and that 's the nickname given to this disease .
it 's called breakbone fever , because that 's how you can feel .
now the odd thing is , is that once you 've been bitten by this mosquito , and you 've had this disease , your body develops antibodies , so if you 're bitten again with that strain , it doesn 't affect you .
but it 's not one virus , it 's four , and the same protection that gives you the antibodies and protects you from the same virus that you had before actually makes you much more susceptible to the other three .
so the next time you get dengue fever , if it 's a different strain , you 're more susceptible , you 're likely to get worse symptoms , and you 're more likely to get the more severe forms , hemorrhagic fever or shock syndrome .
so you don 't want dengue once , and you certainly don 't want it again .
so why is it spreading so fast ?
and the answer is this thing .
this is aedes aegypti .
now this is a mosquito that came , like its name suggests , out of north africa , and it 's spread round the world .
now , in fact , a single mosquito will only travel about 200 yards in its entire life . they don 't travel very far .
what they 're very good at doing is hitchhiking , particularly the eggs .
they will lay their eggs in clear water , any pool , any puddle , any birdbath , any flower pot , anywhere there 's clear water , they 'll lay their eggs , and if that clear water is near freight , it 's near a port , if it 's anywhere near transport , those eggs will then get transported around the world .
and that 's what 's happened . mankind has transported these eggs all the way around the world , and these insects have infested over 100 countries , and there 's now 2.5 billion people living in countries where this mosquito resides .
to give you just a couple of examples how fast this has happened , in the mid- ' 70s , brazil declared , " we have no aedes aegypti , " and currently they spend about a billion dollars now a year trying to get rid of it , trying to control it , just one species of mosquito .
two days ago , or yesterday , i can 't remember which , i saw a reuters report that said madeira had had their first cases of dengue , about 52 cases , with about 400 probable cases .
that 's two days ago .
interestingly , madeira first got the insect in 2005 , and here we are , a few years later , first cases of dengue .
so the one thing you 'll find is that where the mosquito goes , dengue will follow .
once you 've got the mosquito in your area , anyone coming into that area with dengue , mosquito will bite them , mosquito will bite somewhere else , somewhere else , somewhere else , and you 'll get an epidemic .
so we must be good at killing mosquitos .
i mean , that can 't be very difficult .
well , there 's two principle ways .
the first way is that you use larvicides .
you use chemicals . you put them into water where they breed .
now in an urban environment , that 's extraordinarily difficult .
you 've got to get your chemical into every puddle , every birdbath , every tree trunk .
it 's just not practical .
the second way you can do it is actually trying to kill the insects as they fly around .
this is a picture of fogging .
here what someone is doing is mixing up chemical in a smoke and basically spreading that through the environment .
you could do the same with a space spray .
this is really unpleasant stuff , and if it was any good , we wouldn 't have this massive increase in mosquitos and we wouldn 't have this massive increase in dengue fever .
so it 's not very effective , but it 's probably the best thing we 've got at the moment .
having said that , actually , your best form of protection and my best form of protection is a long-sleeve shirt and a little bit of deet to go with it .
so let 's start again . let 's design a product , right from the word go , and decide what we want .
well we clearly need something that is effective at reducing the mosquito population .
there 's no point in just killing the odd mosquito here and there .
we want something that gets that population right the way down so it can 't get the disease transmission .
clearly the product you 've got has got to be safe to humans . we are going to use it in and around humans .
it has to be safe .
we don 't want to have a lasting impact on the environment .
we don 't want to do anything that you can 't undo .
maybe a better product comes along in 20 , 30 years .
fine . we don 't want a lasting environmental impact .
we want something that 's relatively cheap , or cost-effective , because there 's an awful lot of countries involved , and some of them are emerging markets , some of them emerging countries , low-income .
and finally , you want something that 's species-specific .
you want to get rid of this mosquito that spreads dengue , but you don 't really want to get all the other insects .
some are quite beneficial . some are important to your ecosystem .
this one 's not . it 's invaded you .
but you don 't want to get all of the insects .
you just want to get this one .
and most of the time , you 'll find this insect lives in and around your home , so this -- whatever we do has got to get to that insect .
it 's got to get into people 's houses , into the bedrooms , into the kitchens .
now there are two features of mosquito biology that really help us in this project , and that is , firstly , males don 't bite .
it 's only the female mosquito that will actually bite you .
the male can 't bite you , won 't bite you , doesn 't have the mouth parts to bite you .
it 's just the female .
and the second is a phenomenon that males are very , very good at finding females .
if there 's a male mosquito that you release , and if there 's a female around , that male will find the female .
so basically , we 've used those two factors .
so here 's a typical situation , male meets female , lots of offspring .
a single female will lay about up to 100 eggs at a time , up to about 500 in her lifetime .
now if that male is carrying a gene which causes the death of the offspring , then the offspring don 't survive , and instead of having 500 mosquitos running around , you have none .
and if you can put more , i 'll call them sterile , that the offspring will actually die at different stages , but i 'll call them sterile for now .
if you put more sterile males out into the environment , then the females are more likely to find a sterile male than a fertile one , and you will bring that population down .
so the males will go out , they 'll look for females , they 'll mate . if they mate successfully , then no offspring .
if they don 't find a female , then they 'll die anyway .
they only live a few days .
and that 's exactly where we are .
so this is technology that was developed in oxford university a few years ago .
the company itself , oxitec , we 've been working for the last 10 years , very much on a sort of similar development pathway that you 'd get with a pharmaceutical company .
so about 10 years of internal evaluation , testing , to get this to a state where we think it 's actually ready .
and then we 've gone out into the big outdoors , always with local community consent , always with the necessary permits .
so we 've done field trials now in the cayman islands , a small one in malaysia , and two more now in brazil .
and what 's the result ?
well , the result has been very good .
in about four months of release , we 've brought that population of mosquitos - in most cases we 're dealing with villages here of about 2,000 , 3,000 people , that sort of size , starting small - we 've taken that mosquito population down by about 85 percent in about four months .
and in fact , the numbers after that get , those get very difficult to count , because there just aren 't any left .
so that 's been what we 've seen in cayman , it 's been what we 've seen in brazil in those trials .
and now what we 're doing is we 're going through a process to scale up to a town of about 50,000 , so we can see this work at big scale .
and we 've got a production unit in oxford , or just south of oxford , where we actually produce these mosquitos .
we can produce them , in a space a bit more than this red carpet , i can produce about 20 million a week .
we can transport them around the world .
it 's not very expensive , because it 's a coffee cup -- something the size of a coffee cup will hold about three million eggs .
so freight costs aren 't our biggest problem .
so we 've got that . you could call it a mosquito factory .
and for brazil , where we 've been doing some trials , the brazilian government themselves have now built their own mosquito factory , far bigger than ours , and we 'll use that for scaling up in brazil .
there you are . we 've sent mosquito eggs .
we 've separated the males from the females .
the males have been put in little pots and the truck is going down the road and they are releasing males as they go .
it 's actually a little bit more precise than that .
you want to release them so that you get good coverage of your area .
so you take a google map , you divide it up , work out how far they can fly , and make sure you 're releasing such that you get coverage of the area , and then you go back , and within a very short space of time , you 're bringing that population right the way down .
we 've also done this in agriculture .
we 've got several different species of agriculture coming along , and i 'm hoping that soon we 'll be able to get some funding together so we can get back and start looking at malaria .
so that 's where we stand at the moment , and i 've just got a few final thoughts , which is that this is another way in which biology is now coming in to supplement chemistry in some of our societal advances in this area , and these biological approaches are coming in in very different forms , and when you think about genetic engineering , we 've now got enzymes for industrial processing , enzymes , genetically engineered enzymes in food .
we have g.m. crops , we have pharmaceuticals , we have new vaccines , all using roughly the same technology , but with very different outcomes .
and i 'm in favor , actually . of course i am .
i 'm in favor of particularly where the older technologies don 't work well or have become unacceptable .
and although the techniques are similar , the outcomes are very , very different , and if you take our approach , for example , and you compare it to , say , g.m. crops , both techniques are trying to produce a massive benefit .
both have a side benefit , which is that we reduce pesticide use tremendously .
but whereas a g.m. crop is trying to protect the plant , for example , and give it an advantage , what we 're actually doing is taking the mosquito and giving it the biggest disadvantage it can possibly have , rendering it unable to reproduce effectively .
so for the mosquito , it 's a dead end .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / bill _ davenhall _ your _ health _ depends _ on _ where _ you _ live.html
where you live : it impacts your health as much as diet and genes do , but it 's not part of your medical records . at tedmed , bill davenhall shows how overlooked government geo-data can mesh with mobile gps apps to keep doctors in the loop . call it " geo-medicine . "
health , health care , medicine , technology
748
bill davenhall : your health depends on where you live
can geographic information make you healthy ?
in 2001 i got hit by a train .
my train was a heart attack .
i found myself in a hospital in an intensive-care ward , recuperating from emergency surgery .
and i suddenly realized something : that i was completely in the dark .
i started asking my questions , " well , why me ? "
" why now ? " " why here ? "
" could my doctor have warned me ? "
so , what i want to do here in the few minutes i have with you is really talk about what is the formula for life and good health .
genetics , lifestyle and environment .
that 's going to sort of contain our risks , and if we manage those risks we 're going to live a good life and a good healthy life .
well , i understand the genetics and lifestyle part .
and you know why i understand that ?
because my physicians constantly ask me questions about this .
have you ever had to fill out those long , legal-size forms in your doctor 's office ?
i mean , if you 're lucky enough you get to do it more than once , right ?
do it over and over again . and they ask you questions about your lifestyle and your family history , your medication history , your surgical history , your allergy history ... did i forget any history ?
but this part of the equation i didn 't really get ,
and i don 't think my physicians really get this part of the equation .
what does that mean , my environment ?
well , it can mean a lot of things .
this is my life . these are my life places .
we all have these .
while i 'm talking i 'd like you to also be thinking about : how many places have you lived ?
just think about that , you know , wander through your life thinking about this .
and you realize that you spend it in a variety of different places .
you spend it at rest and you spend it at work .
and if you 're like me , you 're in an airplane a good portion of your time traveling some place .
so , it 's not really simple when somebody asks you , " where do you live , where do you work , and where do you spend all your time ?
and where do you expose yourselves to risks that maybe perhaps you don 't even see ? "
well , when i have done this on myself , i always come to the conclusion that i spend about 75 percent of my time relatively in a small number of places .
and i don 't wander far from that place for a majority of my time , even though i 'm an extensive global trekker .
now , i 'm going to take you on a little journey here .
i started off in scranton , pennsylvania .
i don 't know if anybody might hail from northeastern pennsylvania , but this is where i spent my first 19 years with my little young lungs .
you know , breathing high concentrations here of sulfur dioxide , carbon dioxide and methane gas , in unequal quantities -- 19 years of this .
and if you 've been in that part of the country , this is what those piles of burning , smoldering coal waste look like .
so then i decided to leave that part of the world ,
and i was going to go to the mid-west .
ok , so i ended up in louisville , kentucky .
well , i decided to be neighbors to a place called rubbertown .
they manufacture plastics . they use large quantities chloroprene and benzene .
okay , i spent 25 years , in my middle-age lungs now , breathing various concentrations of that .
and on a clear day it always looked like this , so you never saw it .
it was insidious and it was really happening .
then i decided i had to get really smart , i would take this job in the west coast .
and i moved to redlands california .
very nice , and there my older , senior lungs , as i like to call them , i filled with particulate matter , carbon dioxide and very high doses of ozone .
okay ? almost like the highest in the nation .
alright , this is what it looks like on a good day .
if you 've been there , you know what i 'm talking about .
so , what 's wrong with this picture ?
well , the picture is , there is a huge gap here .
the one thing that never happens in my doctor 's office : they never ask me about my place history .
no doctor , can i remember , ever asking me , " where have you lived ? "
they haven 't asked me what kind of the quality of the drinking water that i put in my mouth or the food that i ingest into my stomach .
they really don 't do that . it 's missing .
look at the kind of data that 's available .
this data 's from all over the world -- countries spend billions of dollars investing in this kind of research .
now , i 've circled the places where i 've been .
well , by design , if i wanted to have a heart attack i 'd been in the right places . right ?
so , how many people are in the white ?
how many people in the room have spent the majority of their life in the white space ?
anybody ? boy you 're lucky .
how many have spent it in the red places ?
oh , not so lucky .
there are thousands of these kinds of maps that are displayed in atlases all over the world .
they give us some sense of what 's going to be our train wreck .
but none of that 's in my medical record .
and it 's not in yours either .
so , here 's my friend paul .
he 's a colleague . he allowed his cell phone to be tracked every two hours , 24 / 7 , 365 days out of the year for the last two years , everywhere he went .
and you can see he 's been to a few places around the united states .
and this is where he has spent most of his time .
if you really studied that you might have some clues as to what paul likes to do .
anybody got any clues ? ski . right .
we can zoom in here , and we suddenly see that now we see where paul has really spent a majority of his time .
and all of those black dots are all of the toxic release inventories that are monitored by the epa .
did you know that data existed ?
for every community in the united states , you could have your own personalized map of that .
so , our cell phones can now build a place history .
this is how paul did it . he did it with his iphone .
this might be what we end up with .
this is what the physician would have in front of him and her when we enter that exam room instead of just the pink slip that said i paid at the counter . right ?
this could be my little assessment .
and he looks at that and he says , " whoa bill , i suggest that maybe you not decide , just because you 're out here in beautiful california , and it 's warm every day , that you get out and run at six o 'clock at night .
i 'd suggest that that 's a bad idea bill , because of this report . "
what i 'd like to leave you for are two prescriptions .
okay , number one is , we must teach physicians about the value of geographical information .
it 's called geomedicine . there are about a half a dozen programs in the world right now that are focused on this .
and they 're in the early stages of development .
these programs need to be supported ,
and we need to teach our future doctors of the world the importance of some of the information i 've shared here with you today .
the second thing we need to do is while we 're spending billions and billions of dollars all over the world building an electronic health record , we make sure we put a place history inside that medical record .
it not only will be important for the physician ; it will be important for the researchers that now will have huge samples to draw upon .
but it will also be useful for us .
i could have made the decision , if i had this information , not to move to the ozone capital of the united states , couldn 't i ? i could make that decision .
or i could negotiate with my employer to make that decision in the best interest of myself and my company .
with that , i would like to just say that jack lord said this almost 10 years ago .
just look at that for a minute .
that was what the conclusion of the dartmouth atlas of healthcare was about , was saying that we can explain the geographic variations that occur in disease , in illness , in wellness , and how our healthcare system actually operates .
that was what he was talking about on that quote .
and i would say he got it right almost a decade ago .
so , i 'd very much like to see us begin to really seize this as an opportunity to get this into our medical records .
so with that , i 'll leave you that in my particular view of view of health : geography always matters .
and i believe that geographic information can make both you and me very healthy . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / rives _ controls _ the _ internet.html
how many poets could cram ebay , friendster and monster.com into 3-minute poem worthy of a standing ovation ? enjoy rives ' unique talent .
arts , culture , death , entertainment , love , parenting , performance , philosophy , poetry , short talk , spoken word , technology , web
26
rives controls the internet
i wrote this poem after hearing a pretty well known actress tell a very well known interviewer on television , " i 'm really getting into the internet lately . i just wish it were more organized . " so ...
if i controlled the internet , you could auction your broken heart on ebay . take the money ; go to amazon ; buy a phonebook for a country you 've never been to -- call folks at random until you find someone who flirts really well in a foreign language .
if i were in charge of the internet , you could mapquest your lover 's mood swings . hang left at cranky , right at preoccupied , u-turn on silent treatment , all the way back to tongue kissing and good lovin ' . you could navigate and understand every emotional intersection .
some days , i 'm as shallow as a baking pan ,
but i still stretch miles in all directions .
if i owned the internet , napster , monster and friendster.com would be one big website . that way you could listen to cool music while you pretend to look for a job
and you 're really just chattin ' with your pals .
heck , if i ran the web , you could email dead people .
they would not email you back
--
but you 'd get an automated reply .
their name in your inbox
--
it 's all you wanted anyway .
and a message saying , " hey , it 's me . i miss you .
listen , you 'll see being dead is dandy . now you go back to raising kids and waging peace and craving candy . " if i designed the internet , childhood.com would be a loop of a boy in an orchard , with a ski pole for a sword , trashcan lid for a shield , shouting , " i am the emperor of oranges . i am the emperor of oranges . i am the emperor of oranges . " now follow me , ok ?
grandma.com would be a recipe for biscuits and spit-bath instructions .
one , two , three .
that links with hotdiggitydog.com .
that is my grandfather .
they take you to gruff-ex-cop-on-his-fourth-marriage.dad. he forms an attachment to kind-of-ditzy-but-still-sends-ginger-snaps-for-christmas.mom , who downloads the boy in the orchard , the emperor of oranges , who grows up to be me --
the guy who usually goes too far .
so if i were emperor of the internet , i guess i 'd still be mortal , huh ?
but at that point , i would probably already have the lowest possible mortgage and the most enlarged possible penis
--
so i would outlaw spam on my first day in office .
i wouldn 't need it .
i 'd be like some kind of internet genius , and me , i 'd like to upgrade to deity and maybe just like that -- pop ! -- i 'd go wireless .
huh ? maybe google would hire this .
i could zip through your servers and firewalls like a virus until the world wide web is as wise , as wild and as organized as i think a modern-day miracle / oracle can get , but , ooh-eee , you want to bet just how whack and un-pc your mac or pc is going to be when i 'm rocking
hot-shit-hot-shot-god.net ?
i guess it 's just like life .
it is not a question of if you can --
it 's : do ya ?
we can interfere with the interface .
we can make " you 've got hallelujah " the national anthem of cyberspace
every lucky time we log on .
you don 't say a prayer .
you don 't write a psalm .
you don 't chant an " om . "
you send one blessed email to whomever you 're thinking of at dah-da-la-dat-da-dah-da-la-dat.com .
thank you , ted .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / robert _ neuwirth _ the _ power _ of _ the _ informal _ economy.html
robert neuwirth spent four years among the chaotic stalls of street markets , talking to pushcart hawkers and gray marketers , to study the remarkable " system d , " the world 's unlicensed economic network . responsible for some 1.8 billion jobs , it 's an economy of underappreciated power and scope .
business , cities , community , economics , global issues , law
1555
robert neuwirth : the power of the informal economy
in system d , this is a store , and what i mean by that is that this is a photograph i took in makoko , shantytown in lagos , nigeria .
it 's built over the lagoon , and there are no streets where there can be stores to shop , and so the store comes to you .
and in the same community , this is business synergy .
this is the boat that that lady was paddling around in , and this artisan makes the boat and the paddles and sells directly to the people who need the boat and the paddles .
and this is a global business .
ogandiro smokes fish in makoko in lagos , and i asked her , " where does the fish come from ? "
and i thought she 'd say , " oh , you know , up the lagoon somewhere , or maybe across africa , "
but you 'll be happy to know she said it came from here , it comes from the north sea .
it 's caught here , frozen , shipped down to lagos , smoked , and sold for a tiny increment of profit on the streets of lagos .
and this is a business incubator .
this is olusosun dump , the largest garbage dump in lagos , and 2,000 people work here , and i found this out from this fellow , andrew saboru .
andrew spent 16 years scavenging materials on the dump , earned enough money to turn himself into a contract scaler , which meant he carried a scale and went around and weighed all the materials that people had scavenged from the dump . now he 's a scrap dealer .
that 's his little depot behind him , and he earns twice the nigerian minimum wage .
this is a shopping mall .
this is oshodi market in lagos .
jorge luis borges had a story called " the aleph , " and the aleph is a point in the world where absolutely everything exists , and for me , this image is a point in the world where absolutely everything exists .
so , what am i talking about when i talk about system d ?
it 's traditionally called the informal economy , the underground economy , the black market .
i don 't conceive of it that way .
i think it 's really important to understand that something like this is totally open . it 's right there for you to find .
all of this is happening openly , and aboveboard .
there 's nothing underground about it .
it 's our prejudgment that it 's underground .
i 've pirated the term system d from the former french colonies .
there 's a word in french that is debrouillardise , that means to be self-reliant , and the former french colonies have turned that into system d for the economy of self-reliance , or the diy economy .
but governments hate the diy economy , and that 's why -- i took this picture in 2007 , and this is the same market in 2009 -- and i think , when the organizers of this conference were talking about radical openness , they didn 't mean that the streets should be open and the people should be gone .
i think what we have is a pickle problem .
i had a friend who worked at a pickle factory ,
and the cucumbers would come flying down this conveyer belt , and his job was to pick off the ones that didn 't look so good and throw them in the bin labeled " relish " where they 'd be crushed and mixed with vinegar and used for other kinds of profit .
this is the pickle economy .
we 're all focusing on - this is a statistic from earlier this month in the financial times - we 're all focusing on the luxury economy .
it 's worth 1.5 trillion dollars every year , and that 's a vast amount of money , right ?
that 's three times the gross domestic product of switzerland .
so it 's vast . but it should come with an asterisk , and the asterisk is that it excludes two thirds of the workers of the world .
1.8 billion people around the world work in the economy that is unregulated and informal .
that 's a huge number , and what does that mean ?
well , it means if it were united in a single political system , one country , call it " the united street sellers republic , " the u.s.s.r. , or " bazaaristan , " it would be worth 10 trillion dollars every year , and that would make it the second largest economy in the world , after the united states .
and given that projections are that the bulk of economic growth over the next 15 years will come from emerging economies in the developing world , it could easily overtake the united states and become the largest economy in the world .
so the implications of that are vast , because it means that this is where employment is - 1.8 billion people - and this is where we can create a more egalitarian world , because people are actually able to earn money and live and thrive , as andrew saboru did .
big businesses have recognized this , and what 's fascinating about this slide , it 's not that the guys can carry boxes on their heads and run around without dropping them off. it 's that the gala sausage roll is a product that 's made by a global company called uac foods that 's active throughout africa and the middle east , but the gala sausage roll is not sold in stores .
uac foods has recognized that it won 't sell if it 's in stores . it 's only sold by a phalanx of street hawkers who run around the streets of lagos at bus stations and in traffic jams and sell it as a snack , and it 's been sold that way for 40 years .
it 's a business plan for a corporation .
and it 's not just in africa .
here 's mr. clean looking amorously at all the other procter & gamble products , and procter & gamble , you know , the statistic always cited is that wal-mart is their largest customer , and it 's true , as one store , wal-mart buys 15 percent , thus 15 percent of procter & gamble 's business is with wal-mart , but their largest market segment is something that they call " high frequency stores , " which is all these tiny kiosks and the lady in the canoe and all these other businesses that exist in system d , the informal economy , and procter & gamble makes 20 percent of its money from that market segment , and it 's the only market segment that 's growing .
so procter & gamble says , " we don 't care whether a store is incorporated or registered or anything like that .
we want our products in that store . "
and then there 's mobile phones .
this is an ad for mtn , which is a south african multinational active in about 25 countries , and when they came into nigeria - nigeria is the big dog in africa .
one in seven africans is a nigerian , and so everyone wants in to the mobile phone market
in nigeria . and when mtn came in , they wanted to sell the mobile service like i get in the united states or like people get here in the u.k. or in europe -- expensive monthly plans , you get a phone , you pay overages , you 're killed with fees -- and their plan crashed and burned .
and they went back to the drawing board , and they retooled , and they came up with another plan : we don 't sell you the phone , we don 't sell you the monthly plan .
we only sell you airtime .
and where 's the airtime sold ?
it 's sold at umbrella stands all over the streets , where people are unregistered , unlicensed , but mtn makes most of its profits , perhaps 90 percent of its profits , from selling through system d , the informal economy .
and where do the phones come from ?
well , they come from here . this is in guangzhou , china , and if you go upstairs in this rather sleepy looking electronics mall , you find the guangzhou dashatou second-hand trade center ,
and if you go in there , you follow the guys with the muscles who are carrying the boxes , and where are they going ?
they 're going to eddy in lagos .
now , most of the phones there are not second-hand at all .
the name is a misnomer .
most of them are pirated . they have the name brand on them , but they 're not manufactured by the name brand .
now , are there downsides to that ?
well , i guess . you know , china has no - - no intellectual property , right ?
versace without the vowels .
zhuomani instead of armani .
s. guuuci , and -- all around the world this is how products are being distributed , so , for instance , in one street market on rua 25 de marco in sao paulo , brazil , you can buy fake designer glasses .
you can buy cloned cologne .
you can buy pirated dvds , of course .
you can buy new york yankees caps in all sorts of unauthorized patterns .
you can buy cuecas baratas , designer underwear that isn 't really manufactured by a designer , and even pirated evangelical mixtapes .
now , businesses tend to complain about this , and their , they , i don 't want to take away from their entire validity of complaining about it , but i did ask a major sneaker manufacturer earlier this year what they thought about piracy ,
and they told me , " well , you can 't quote me on this , because if you quote me on this , i have to kill you , " but they use piracy as market research .
the sneaker manufacturer told me that if they find that pumas are being pirated , or adidas are being pirated and their sneakers aren 't being pirated , they know they 've done something wrong .
so it 's very important to them to track piracy exactly because of this , and the people who are buying , the pirates , are not their customers anyway , because their customers want the real deal .
now , there 's another problem .
this is a real street sign in lagos , nigeria .
all of system d really doesn 't pay taxes , right ?
and when i think about that , first of all i think that government is a social contract between the people and the government , and if the government isn 't transparent , then the people aren 't going to be transparent either ,
but also that we 're blaming the little guy who doesn 't pay his taxes , and we 're not recognizing that everyone 's fudging things all over the world , including some extremely respected businesses , and i 'll give you one example .
there was one company that paid 4,000 bribes in the first decade of this millennium , and a million dollars in bribes every business day , right ?
all over the world . and that company was the big german electronics giant siemens .
so this goes on in the formal economy as well as the informal economy , so it 's wrong of us to blame - and i 'm not singling out siemens , i 'm saying everyone does it . okay ?
i just want to end by saying that if adam smith had framed out a theory of the flea market instead of the free market , what would be sum of the principles ?
first , it would be to understand that it could be considered a cooperative , and this is a thought from the brazilian legal scholar roberto mangabeira unger .
cooperative development is a way forward .
secondly , from the [ austrian ] anarchist philosopher paul feyerabend , facts are relative , and what is a massive right of self-reliance to a nigerian businessperson is considered unauthorized and horrible to other people , and we have to recognize that there are differences in how people define things and what their facts are .
and third is , and i 'm taking this from the great american beat poet allen ginsberg , that alternate economies barter and different kinds of currency , alternate currencies are also very important , and he talked about buying what he needed just with his good looks .
and so i just want to leave you there , and say that this economy is a tremendous force for global development and we need to think about it that way .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / greg _ lynn _ on _ organic _ design.html
greg lynn talks about the mathematical roots of architecture -- and how calculus and digital tools allow modern designers to move beyond the traditional building forms . a glorious church in queens illustrate his theory .
design
430
greg lynn on calculus in architecture
what i thought i would talk about today is the transition from one mode of thinking about nature to another that 's tracked by architecture .
what 's interesting about architects is , we always have tried to justify beauty by looking to nature , and arguably , beautiful architecture has always been looking at a model of nature .
so , for roughly 300 years , the hot debate in architecture was whether the number five or the number seven was a better proportion to think about architecture , because the nose was one-fifth of your head , or because your head was one-seventh of your body .
and the reason that that was the model of beauty and of nature was because the decimal point had not been invented yet -- it wasn 't the 16th century -- and everybody had to dimension a building in terms of fractions , so a room would be dimensioned as one-fourth of a facade ; the structural dais of that might be dimensioned as 10 units , and you would get down to the small elements by fractional subdivision : finer and finer and finer .
in the 15th century , the decimal point was invented ; architects stopped using fractions , and they had a new model of nature .
so , what 's going on today is that there 's a model of natural form which is calculus-based and which is using digital tools , and that has a lot of implications to the way we think about beauty and form , and it has a lot of implications in the way we think about nature .
the best example of this would probably be the gothic , and the gothic was invented after the invention of calculus , although the gothic architects weren 't really using calculus to define their forms .
but what was important is , the gothic moment in architecture was the first time that force and motion was thought of in terms of form .
so , examples like christopher wren 's king 's cross : you can see that the structural forces of the vaulting get articulated as lines , so you 're really actually seeing the expression of structural force and form .
much later , robert maillart 's bridges , which optimize structural form with a calculus curvature almost like a parabola .
the hanging chain models of antonio gaudi , the catalan architect .
the end of the 19th century , beginning of the 20th century , and how that hanging chain model translates into archways and vaulting .
so , in all of these examples , structure is the determining force .
frei otto was starting to use foam bubble diagrams and foam bubble models to generate his mannheim concert hall .
interestingly , in the last 10 years norman foster used a similar heat thermal transfer model to generate the roof of the national gallery , with the structural engineer chris williams .
in all these examples , there 's one ideal form , because these are thought in terms of structure .
and as an architect , i 've always found these kinds of systems very limiting , because i 'm not interested in ideal forms and i 'm not interested in optimizing to some perfect moment .
so , what i thought i would bring up is another component that needs to be thought of , whenever you think about nature , and that 's basically the invention of generic form in genetic evolution .
my hero is actually not darwin ; it 's a guy named william bateson , father of greg bateson , who was here for a long time in monterey .
and he was what you 'd call a teratologist : he looked at all of the monstrosities and mutations to find rules and laws , rather than looking at the norms .
so , instead of trying to find the ideal type or the ideal average , he 'd always look for the exception . so , in this example , which is an example of what 's called bateson 's rule , he has two kinds of mutations of a human thumb .
when i first saw this image , 10 years ago , i actually found it very strange and beautiful at the same time .
beautiful , because it has symmetry .
so , what he found is that in all cases of thumb mutations , instead of having a thumb , you would either get another opposable thumb , or you would get four fingers . so , the mutations reverted to symmetry .
and bateson invented the concept of symmetry breaking , which is that wherever you lose information in a system , you revert back to symmetry .
so , symmetry wasn 't the sign of order and organization -- which is what i was always understanding , and as is an architect -- symmetry was the absence of information .
so , whenever you lost information , you 'd move to symmetry ; whenever you added information to a system , you would break symmetry .
so , this whole idea of natural form shifted at that moment from looking for ideal shapes to looking for a combination of information and generic form .
you know , literally after seeing that image , and finding out what bateson was working with , we started to use these rules for symmetry breaking and branching to start to think about architectural form .
to just talk for a minute about the digital mediums that we 're using now and how they integrate calculus : the fact that they 're calculus-based means that we don 't have to think about dimension in terms of ideal units or discreet elements .
so , in architecture we deal with big assemblies of components , so there might be up to , say , 50,000 pieces of material in this room you 're sitting in right now that all need to get organized .
now , typically you 'd think that they would all be the same : like , the chairs you 're sitting in would all be the same dimension .
you know , i haven 't verified this , but it 's the norm that every chair would be a slightly different dimension , because you 'd want to space them all out for everybody 's sight lines .
the elements that make up the ceiling grid and the lighting , they 're all losing their modular quality , and moving more and more to these infinitesimal dimensions .
that 's because we 're all using calculus tools for manufacturing and for design .
calculus is also a mathematics of curves . so , even a straight line , defined with calculus , is a curve .
it 's just a curve without inflection .
so , a new vocabulary of form is now pervading all design fields : whether it 's automobiles , architecture , products , etc . , it 's really being affected by this digital medium of curvature .
the intricacies of scale that come out of that -- you know , in the example of the nose to the face , there 's a fractional part-to-whole idea .
with calculus , the whole idea of subdivision is more complex , because the whole and the parts are one continuous series .
it 's too early in the morning for a lecture on calculus , so i brought some images to just describe how that works .
this is a korean church that we did in queens .
and in this example , you can see that the components of this stair are repetitive , but they 're repetitive without being modular .
each one of the elements in this structure is a unique distance and dimension , and all of the connections are unique angles .
now , the only way we could design that , or possibly construct it , is by using a calculus-based definition of the form .
it also is much more dynamic , so that you can see that the same form opens and closes in a very dynamic way as you move across it , because it has this quality of vector in motion built into it .
so the same space that appears to be a kind of closed volume , when seen from the other side becomes a kind of open vista .
and you also get a sense of visual movement in the space , because every one of the elements is changing in a pattern , so that pattern leads your eye towards the altar .
i think that 's one of the main changes , also , in architecture : that we 're starting to look now not for some ideal form , like a latin cross for a church , but actually all the traits of a church : so , light that comes from behind from an invisible source , directionality that focuses you towards an altar .
it turns out it 's not rocket science to design a sacred space .
you just need to incorporate a certain number of traits in a very kind of genetic way .
so , these are the different perspectives of that interior , which has a very complex set of orientations all in a simple form .
in terms of construction and manufacturing , this is a kilometer-long housing block that was built in the ' 70s in amsterdam .
and here we 've broken the 500 apartments up into small neighborhoods , and differentiated those neighborhoods .
i won 't go into too much description of any of these projects , but what you can see is that the escalators and elevators that circulate people along the face of the building are all held up by 122 structural trusses .
because we 're using escalators to move people , all of these trusses are picking up diagonal loads .
so , every one of them is a little bit different-shaped as you move down the length of the building .
so , working with bentley and microstation , we 've written a custom piece of software that networks all of the components together into these chunks of information , so that if we change any element along the length of the building , not only does that change distribute through each one of the trusses , but each one of the trusses then distributes that information down the length of the entire facade of the building . so it 's a single calculation for every single component of the building that we 're adding onto .
so , it 's tens of millions of calculations just to design one connection between a piece of structural steel and another piece of structural steel .
but what it gives us is a harmonic and synthesized relationship of all these components , one to another .
this idea has , kind of , brought me into doing some product design , and it 's because design firms that have connections to architects , like , i 'm working with vitra , which is a furniture company , and alessi , which is a houseware company .
they saw this actually solving a problem : this ability to differentiate components but keep them synthetic .
so , not to pick on bmw , or to celebrate them , but take bmw as an example .
they have to , in 2005 , have a distinct identity for all their models of cars .
so , the 300 series , or whatever their newest car is , the 100 series that 's coming out , has to look like the 700 series , at the other end of their product line , so they need a distinct , coherent identity , which is bmw .
at the same time , there 's a person paying 30,000 dollars for a 300-series car , and a person paying 70,000 dollars for a 700 series , and that person paying more than double doesn 't want their car to look too much like the bottom-of-the-market car .
so they have to also discriminate between these products .
so , as manufacturing starts to allow more design options , this problem gets exacerbated , of the whole and the parts .
now , as an architect , part-to-whole relationships is all i think about , but in terms of product design it 's becoming more and more of an issue for companies .
so , the first kind of test product we did was with alessi , which was for a coffee and tea set .
it 's an incredibly expensive coffee and tea set ; we knew that at the beginning . so , i actually went to some people i knew down south in san diego , and we used an exploded titanium forming method that 's used in the aerospace industry .
basically what we can do , is just cut a graphite mold , put it in an oven , heat it to 1,000 degrees , gently inflate titanium that 's soft , and then explode it at the last minute into this form .
but what 's great about it is , the forms are only a few hundred dollars .
the titanium 's several thousand dollars , but the forms are very cheap .
so , we designed a system here of eight curves that could be swapped , very similar to that housing project i showed you , and we could recombine those together , so that we always had ergonomic shapes that always had the same volume and could always be produced in the same way .
that way , each one of these tools we could pay for with a few hundred dollars , and get incredible variation in the components .
and this is one of those examples of the sets .
so , for me , what was important is that this coffee set -- which is just a coffee pot , a teapot , and those are the pots sitting on a tray -- that they would have a coherence -- so , they would be greg lynn alessi coffee pots -- but that everyone who bought one would have a one-of-a-kind object that was unique in some way .
to go back to architecture , what 's organic about architecture as a field , unlike product design , is this whole issue of holism and of monumentality is really our realm . like , we have to design things which are coherent as a single object , but also break down into small rooms and have an identity of both the big scale and the small scale .
architects tend to work with signature , so that an architect needs a signature and that signature has to work across the scale of houses up to , say , skyscrapers , and that problem of signatures is a thing we 're very good at maintaining and working with ; and intricacy , which is the relationship of , say , the shape of a building , its structure , its windows , its color , its pattern . these are real architectural problems .
so , my kind of hero for this in the natural world are these tropical frogs .
i got interested in them because they 're the most extreme example of a surface where the texture and the -- let 's call it the decoration -- i know the frog doesn 't think of it as decoration , but that 's how it works -- are all intricately connected to one another .
so a change in the form indicates a change in the color pattern .
so , the pattern and the form aren 't the same thing , but they really work together and are fused in some way .
so , when doing a center for the national parks in costa rica , we tried to use that idea of a gradient color and a change in texture as the structure moves across the surface of the building .
we also used a continuity of change from a main exhibition hall to a natural history museum , so it 's all one continuous change in the massing , but within that massing are very different kinds of spaces and forms .
in a housing project in valencia , spain , we 're doing , the different towers of housing fused together in shared curves so you get a single mass , like a kind of monolith , but it breaks down into individual elements .
and you can see that that change in massing also gives all 48 of the apartments a unique shape and size , but always within a , kind of , controlled limit , an envelope of change .
i work with a group of other architects .
we have a company called united architects .
we were one of the finalists for the world trade center site design .
and i think this just shows how we were approaching the problem of incredibly large-scale construction .
we wanted to make a kind of gothic cathedral around the footprints of the world trade center site .
and to do that , we tried to connect up the five towers into a single system .
and we looked at , from the 1950s on , there were numerous examples of other architects trying to do the same thing .
we really approached it at the level of the typology of the building , where we could build these five separate towers , but they would all join at the 60th floor and make a kind of single monolithic mass .
with united architects , also , we made a proposal for the european central bank headquarters that used the same system , but this time in a much more monolithic mass , like a sphere .
but again , you can see this , kind of , organic fusion of multiple building elements to make a thing which is whole , but breaks down into smaller parts , but in an incredibly organic way .
finally , i 'd like to just show you some of the effects of using digital fabrication .
about six years ago , i bought one of these cnc mills , to just replace , kind of , young people cutting their fingers off all the time building models .
and i also bought a laser cutter and started to fabricate within my own shop , kind of , large-scale building elements and models , where we could go directly to the tooling .
what i found out is that the tooling , if you intervened in the software , actually produced decorative effects .
so , for these interiors , like this shop in stockholm , sweden , or this installation wall in the netherlands at the netherlands architecture institute , we could use the texture that the tool would leave to produce a lot of the spatial effects , and we could integrate the texture of the wall with the form of the wall with the material .
so , in vacuum-formed plastic , in fiberglass , and then even at the level of structural steel , which you think of as being linear and modular .
the steel industry is so far ahead of the design industry that if you take advantage of it you can even start to think of beams and columns all rolled together into a single system which is highly efficient , but also produces decorative effects and formal effects that are very beautiful and organic .
thanks very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / paul _ ewald _ asks _ can _ we _ domesticate _ germs.html
evolutionary biologist paul ewald drags us into the sewer to discuss germs . why are some more harmful than others ? how could we make the harmful ones benign ? searching for answers , he examines a disgusting , fascinating case : diarrhea .
biology , disease , evolution , global issues , health , health care , illness , medicine , microbiology , science , technology , virus , water
259
paul ewald asks , can we domesticate germs ?
what i 'd like to do is just drag us all down into the gutter , and actually all the way down into the sewer because i want to talk about diarrhea .
and in particular , i want to talk about the design of diarrhea .
and when evolutionary biologists talk about design , they really mean design by natural selection .
and that brings me to the title of the talk , " using evolution to design disease organisms intelligently . "
and i also have a little bit of a sort of smartass subtitle to this .
but i 'm not just doing this to be cute .
i really think that this subtitle explains what somebody like me , who 's sort of a darwin wannabe , how they actually look at one 's role in sort of coming into this field of health sciences and medicine .
it 's really not a very friendly field for evolutionary biologists .
you actually see a great potential , but you see a lot of people who are sort of defending their turf , and may actually be very resistant , when one tries to introduce ideas .
so , all of the talk today is going to deal with two general questions .
one is that , why are some disease organisms more harmful ? and a very closely related question , which is , how can we take control of this situation once we understand the answer to the first question ?
how can we make the harmful organisms more mild ?
and i 'm going to be talking , to begin with , as i said , about diarrheal disease organisms .
and the focus when i 'm talking about the diarrheal organisms , as well as the focus when i 'm talking about any organisms that cause acute infectious disease , is to think about the problem from a germ 's point of view ,
germ 's-eye view .
and in particular , to think about a fundamental idea which i think makes sense out of a tremendous amount of variation in the harmfulness of disease organisms .
and that idea is that from the germ 's-eye point of view , disease organisms have to get from one host to another , and often they have to rely on the well-being of the host to move them to another host .
but not always .
sometimes , you get disease organisms that don 't rely on host mobility at all for transmission .
and when you have that , then evolutionary theory tells us that natural selection will favor the more exploitative , more predator-like organisms .
so , natural selection will favor organisms that are more likely to cause damage .
if instead transmission to another host requires host mobility , then we expect that the winners of the competition will be the milder organisms .
so , if the pathogen doesn 't need the host to be healthy and active , and actual selection favors pathogens that take advantage of those hosts , the winners in the competition are those that exploit the hosts for their own reproductive success .
but if the host needs to be mobile in order to transmit the pathogen , then it 's the benign ones that tend to be the winners .
so , i 'm going to begin by applying this idea to diarrheal diseases .
diarrheal disease organisms get transmitted in basically three ways .
they can be transmitted from person-to-person contact , person-to-food-then-to-person contact , when somebody eats contaminated food ,
or they can be transmitted through the water .
and when they 're transmitted through the water , unlike the first two modes of transmission , these pathogens don 't rely on a healthy host for transmission .
a person can be sick in bed and still infect tens , even hundreds of other individuals .
to sort of illustrate that , this diagram emphasizes that if you 've got a sick person in bed , somebody 's going to be taking out the contaminated materials .
they 're going to wash those contaminated materials , and then the water may move into sources of drinking water .
people will come in to those places where you 've got contaminated drinking water , bring things back to the family , may drink right at that point .
the whole point is that a person who can 't move can still infect many other individuals .
and so , the theory tells us that when diarrheal disease organisms are transported by water , we expect them to be more predator-like , more harmful .
and you can test these ideas .
so , one way you can test is just look at all diarrheal bacteria , and see whether or not the ones that tend to be more transmitted by water , tend to be more harmful .
and the answer is -- yep , they are .
now i put those names in there just for the bacteria buffs , but the main point here is that -- there 's a lot of them here , i can tell -- the main point here is that those data points all show a very strong , positive association between the degree to which a disease organism is transmitted by water , and how harmful they are , how much death they cause per untreated infection .
so this suggests we 're on the right track .
but this , to me , suggests that we really need to ask some additional questions .
remember the second question that i raised at the outset was , how can we use this knowledge to make disease organisms evolve to be mild ?
now , this suggests that if you could just block waterborne transmission , you could cause disease organisms to shift from the right-hand side of that graph to the left-hand side of the graph .
but it doesn 't tell you how long .
i mean , if this would require thousands of years , then it 's worthless in terms of controlling of these pathogens .
but if it could occur in just a few years , then it might be a very important way to control some of the nasty problems that we haven 't been able to control .
in other words , this suggests that we could domesticate these organisms .
we could make them evolve to be not so harmful to us .
and so , as i was thinking about this , i focused on this organism , which is the el tor biotype of the organism called vibrio cholerae .
and that is the species of organism that is responsible for causing cholera .
and the reason i thought this is a really great organism to look at is that we understand why it 's so harmful .
it 's harmful because it produces a toxin ,
and that toxin is released when the organism gets into our intestinal tract .
it causes fluid to flow from the cells that line our intestine into the lumen , the internal chamber of our intestine , and then that fluid goes the only way it can , which is out the other end .
and it flushes out thousands of different other competitors that would otherwise make life difficult for the vibrios .
so what happens , if you 've got an organism , it produces a lot of toxin . after a few days of infection you end up having -- the fecal material really isn 't so disgusting as we might imagine .
it 's sort of cloudy water .
and if you took a drop of that water , you might find a million diarrheal organisms .
if the organism produced a lot of toxin , you might find 10 million , or 100 million .
if it didn 't produce a lot of this toxin , then you might find a smaller number .
so the task is to try to figure out how to determine whether or not you could get an organism like this to evolve towards mildness by blocking waterborne transmission , thereby allowing the organism only to be transmitted by person-to-person contact , or person-food-person contact --
both of which would really require that people be mobile and fairly healthy for transmission .
now , i can think of some possible experiments .
one would be to take a lot of different strains of this organism -- some that produce a lot of toxins , some that produce a little -- and take those strains and spew them out in different countries .
some countries that might have clean water supplies , so that you can 't get waterborne transmission : you expect the organism to evolve to mildness there .
other countries , in which you 've got a lot of waterborne transmission , there you expect these organisms to evolve towards a high level of harmfulness , right ?
there 's a little ethical problem in this experiment .
i was hoping to hear a few gasps at least .
that makes me worry a little bit .
but anyhow , the laughter makes me feel a little bit better .
and this ethical problem 's a big problem .
just to emphasize this , this is what we 're really talking about .
here 's a girl who 's almost dead .
she got rehydration therapy , she perked up , within a few days she was looking like a completely different person .
so , we don 't want to run an experiment like that .
but interestingly , just that thing happened in 1991 .
in 1991 , this cholera organism got into lima , peru , and within two months it had spread to the neighboring areas .
now , i don 't know how that happened , and i didn 't have anything to do with it , i promise you .
i don 't think anybody knows , but i 'm not averse to , once that 's happened , to see whether or not the prediction that we would make , that i did make before , actually holds up .
did the organism evolve to mildness in a place like chile , which has some of the most well protected water supplies in latin america ?
and did it evolve to be more harmful in a place like ecuador , which has some of the least well protected ?
and peru 's got something sort of in between .
and so , with funding from the bosack-kruger foundation , i got a lot of strains from these different countries and we measured their toxin production in the lab .
and we found that in chile -- within two months of the invasion of peru you had strains entering chile --
and when you look at those strains , in the very far left-hand side of this graph , you see a lot of variation in the toxin production .
each dot corresponds to an islet from a different person --
a lot of variation on which natural selection can act .
but the interesting point is , if you look over the 1990s , within a few years the organisms evolved to be more mild .
they evolved to produce less toxin . and to just give you a sense of how important this might be , if we look in 1995 , we find that there 's only one case of cholera , on average , reported from chile every two years .
so , it 's controlled .
that 's how much we have in america , cholera that 's acquired endemically ,
and we don 't think we 've got a problem here .
they didn 't -- they solved the problem in chile .
but , before we get too confident , we 'd better look at some of those other countries , and make sure that this organism doesn 't just always evolve toward mildness .
well , in peru it didn 't .
and in ecuador -- remember , this is the place where it has the highest potential waterborne transmission -- it looked like it got more harmful .
in every case there 's a lot of variation , but something about the environment the people are living in , and i think the only realistic explanation is that it 's the degree of waterborne transmission , favored the harmful strains in one place , and mild strains in another .
so , this is very encouraging , it suggests that something that we might want to do anyhow , if we had enough money , could actually give us a much bigger bang for the buck .
it would make these organisms evolve to mildness , so that even though people might be getting infected , they 'd be infected with mild strains .
it wouldn 't be causing severe disease .
but there 's another really interesting aspect of this , and this is that if you could control the evolution of virulence , evolution of harmfulness , then you should be able to control antibiotic resistance .
and the idea is very simple .
if you 've got a harmful organism , a high proportion of the people are going to be symptomatic , a high proportion of the people are going to be going to get antibiotics .
you 've got a lot of pressure favoring antibiotic resistance , so you get increased virulence leading to the evolution of increased antibiotic resistance .
and once you get increased antibiotic resistance , the antibiotics aren 't knocking out the harmful strains anymore .
so , you 've got a higher level of virulence .
so , you get this vicious cycle .
the goal is to turn this around .
if you could cause an evolutionary decrease in virulence by cleaning up the water supply , you should be able to get an evolutionary decrease in antibiotic resistance .
so , we can go to the same countries and look and see .
did chile avoid the problem of antibiotic resistance ,
whereas did ecuador actually have the beginnings of the problem ?
if we look in the beginning of the 1990s , we see , again , a lot of variation .
in this case , on the y-axis , we 've just got a measure of antibiotic sensitivity --
and i won 't go into that .
but we 've got a lot of variation in antibiotic sensitivity in chile , peru and ecuador , and no trend across the years .
but if we look at the end of the 1990s , just half a decade later , we see that in ecuador they started having a resistance problem .
antibiotic sensitivity was going down .
and in chile , you still had antibiotic sensitivity .
so , it looks like chile dodged two bullets .
they got the organism to evolve to mildness , and they got no development of antibiotic resistance .
now , these ideas should apply across the board ,
as long as you can figure out why some organisms evolved to virulence .
and i want to give you just one more example , because we 've talked a little bit about malaria .
and the example i want to deal with is , or the idea i want to deal with , the question is , what can we do to try to get the malarial organism to evolve to mildness ?
now , malaria 's transmitted by a mosquito , and normally if you 're infected with malaria , and you 're feeling sick , it makes it even easier for the mosquito to bite you .
and you can show , just by looking at data from literature , that vector-borne diseases are more harmful than non-vector-borne diseases .
but i think there 's a really fascinating example of what one can do experimentally to try to actually demonstrate this .
in the case of waterborne transmission , we 'd like to clean up the water supplies , see whether or not we can get those organisms to evolve towards mildness .
in the case of malaria , what we 'd like to do is mosquito-proof houses .
and the logic 's a little more subtle here .
if you mosquito-proof houses , when people get sick , they 're sitting in bed -- or in mosquito-proof hospitals , they 're sitting in a hospital bed -- and the mosquitoes can 't get to them .
so , if you 're a harmful variant in a place where you 've got mosquito-proof housing , then you 're a loser .
the only pathogens that get transmitted are the ones that are infecting people that feel healthy enough to walk outside and get mosquito bites .
so , if you were to mosquito proof houses , you should be able to get these organisms to evolve to mildness .
and there 's a really wonderful experiment that was done that suggests that we really should go ahead and do this .
and that experiment was done in northern alabama .
just to give you a little perspective on this , i 've given you a star at the intellectual center of the united states , which is right there in louisville , kentucky .
and this really cool experiment was done about 200 miles south of there , in northern alabama , by the tennessee valley authority .
they had dammed up the tennessee river .
they 'd caused the water to back up , they needed electric , hydroelectric power .
and when you get stagnant water , you get mosquitoes .
they found in the late ' 30s -- 10 years after they 'd made these dams -- that the people in northern alabama were infected with malaria ,
about a third to half of them were infected with malaria .
this shows you the positions of some of these dams .
ok , so the tennessee valley authority was in a little bit of a bind .
there wasn 't ddt , there wasn 't chloroquines : what do they do ?
well , they decided to mosquito proof every house in northern alabama .
so they did . they divided northern alabama into 11 zones , and within three years , about 100 dollars per house , they mosquito proofed every house .
and these are the data .
every row across here represents one of those 11 zones .
and the asterisks represent the time at which the mosquito proofing was complete .
and so what you can see is that just the mosquito-proofed housing , and nothing else , caused the eradication of malaria .
and this was , incidentally , published in 1949 , in the leading textbook of malaria , called " boyd 's malariology . "
but almost no malaria experts even know it exists .
this is important , because it tells us that if you have moderate biting densities , you can eradicate malaria by mosquito proofing houses .
now , i would suggest that you could do this in a lot of places .
like , you know , just as you get into the malaria zone , sub-saharan africa .
but as you move to really intense biting rate areas , like nigeria , you 're certainly not going to eradicate .
but that 's when you should be favoring evolution towards mildness .
so to me , it 's an experiment that 's waiting to happen , and if it confirms the prediction , then we should have a very powerful tool .
in a way , much more powerful than the kind of tools we 're looking at ,
because most of what 's being done today is to rely on things like anti-malarial drugs .
and we know that , although it 's great to make those anti-malarial drugs available at really low cost and high frequency , we know that when you make them highly available you 're going to get resistance to those drugs .
and so it 's a short-term solution .
this is a long-term solution .
what i 'm suggesting here is that we could get evolution working in the direction we want it to go ,
rather than always having to battle evolution as a problem that stymies our efforts to control the pathogen , for example with anti-malarial drugs .
so , this table i 've given just to emphasize that i 've only talked about two examples .
but as i said earlier , this kind of logic applies across the board for infectious diseases , and it ought to .
because when we 're dealing with infectious diseases , we 're dealing with living systems .
we 're dealing with living systems ; we 're dealing with systems that evolve .
and so if you do something with those systems , they 're going to evolve one way or another .
and all i 'm saying is that we need to figure out how they 'll evolve , so that -- we need to adjust our interventions to get the most bang for the intervention buck , so that we can get these organisms to evolve in the direction we want them to go .
so , i don 't really have time to talk about those things , but i did want to put them up there , just to give you a sense that there really are solutions to controlling the evolution of harmfulness of some of the nasty pathogens that we 're confronted with .
and this links up with a lot of the other ideas that have been talked about .
so , for example , earlier today there was discussion of , how do you really lower sexual transmission of hiv ?
what this emphasizes is that we need to figure out how it will work .
will it maybe get lowered if we alter the economy of the area ?
it may get lowered if we intervene in ways that encourage people to stay more faithful to partners , and so on .
but the key thing is to figure out how to lower it , because if we lower it , we 'll get an evolutionary change in the virus .
and the data really do support this : that you actually do get the virus evolving towards mildness .
and that will just add to the effectiveness of our control efforts .
so the other thing i really like about this , besides the fact that it brings a whole new dimension into the study of control of disease , is that often the kinds of interventions that you want , that it indicates should be done , are the kinds of interventions that people want anyhow .
but people just haven 't been able to justify the cost .
so , this is the kind of thing i 'm talking about .
if we know that we 're going to get extra bang for the buck from providing clean water , then i think that we can say , let 's push the effort into that aspect of the control , so that we can actually solve the problem , even though , if you just look at the frequency of infection , you would suggest that you can 't solve the problem well enough just by cleaning up water supply .
anyhow , i 'll end that there , and thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / todd _ kuiken _ a _ prosthetic _ arm _ that _ feels.html
physiatrist and engineer todd kuiken is building a prosthetic arm that connects with the human nervous system -- improving motion , control and even feeling . onstage , patient amanda kitts helps demonstrate this next-gen robotic arm .
design , engineering , invention , medicine , prosthetics , science , technology
1251
todd kuiken : a prosthetic arm that " feels "
so today , i would like to talk with you about bionics , which is the popular term for the science of replacing part of a living organism with a mechatronic device , or a robot .
it is essentially the stuff of life meets machine .
and specifically , i 'd like to talk with you about how bionics is evolving for people with arm amputations .
this is our motivation .
arm amputation causes a huge disability .
i mean , the functional impairment is clear .
our hands are amazing instruments .
and when you lose one , far less both , it 's a lot harder to do the things we physically need to do .
there 's also a huge emotional impact .
and actually , i spend as much of my time in clinic dealing with the emotional adjustment of patients as with the physical disability .
and finally , there 's a profound social impact .
we talk with our hands .
we greet with our hands .
and we interact with the physical world with our hands .
and when they 're missing , it 's a barrier .
arm amputation is usually caused by trauma , with things like industrial accidents , motor vehicle collisions or , very poignantly , war .
there are also some children who are born without arms , called congenital limb deficiency .
unfortunately , we don 't do great with upper-limb prosthetics .
there are two general types .
they 're called body-powered prostheses , which were invented just after the civil war , refined in world war i and world war ii .
here you see a patent for an arm in 1912 .
it 's not a lot different than the one you see on my patient .
they work by harnessing shoulder power .
so when you squish your shoulders , they pull on a bicycle cable .
and that bicycle cable can open or close a hand or a hook or bend an elbow .
and we still use them commonly , because they 're very robust and relatively simple devices .
the state of the art is what we call myoelectric prostheses .
these are motorized devices that are controlled by little electrical signals from your muscle .
every time you contract a muscle , it emits a little electricity that you can record with antennae or electrodes and use that to operate the motorized prosthesis .
they work pretty well for people who have just lost their hand , because your hand muscles are still there .
you squeeze your hand , these muscles contract .
you open it , these muscles contract .
so it 's intuitive , and it works pretty well .
well how about with higher levels of amputation ?
now you 've lost your arm above the elbow .
you 're missing not only these muscles , but your hand and your elbow too .
what do you do ?
well our patients have to use very code-y systems of using just their arm muscles to operate robotic limbs .
we have robotic limbs .
there are several available on the market , and here you see a few .
they contain just a hand that will open and close , a wrist rotator and an elbow .
there 's no other functions .
if they did , how would we tell them what to do ?
we built our own arm at the rehab institute of chicago where we 've added some wrist flexion and shoulder joints to get up to six motors , or six degrees of freedom .
and we 've had the opportunity to work with some very advanced arms that were funded by the u.s. military , using these prototypes , that had up to 10 different degrees of freedom including movable hands .
but at the end of the day , how do we tell these robotic arms what to do ?
how do we control them ?
well we need a neural interface , a way to connect to our nervous system or our thought processes so that it 's intuitive , it 's natural , like for you and i .
well the body works by starting a motor command in your brain , going down your spinal cord , out the nerves and to your periphery .
and your sensation 's the exact opposite .
you touch yourself , there 's a stimulus that comes up those very same nerves back up to your brain .
when you lose your arm , that nervous system still works .
those nerves can put out command signals .
and if i tap the nerve ending on a world war ii vet , he 'll still feel his missing hand .
so you might say , let 's go to the brain and put something in the brain to record signals , or in the end of the peripheral nerve and record them there .
and these are very exciting research areas , but it 's really , really hard .
you have to put in hundreds of microscopic wires to record from little tiny individual neurons -- ordinary fibers that put out tiny signals that are microvolts .
and it 's just too hard to use now and for my patients today .
so we developed a different approach .
we 're using a biological amplifier to amplify these nerve signals -- muscles .
muscles will amplify the nerve signals about a thousand-fold , so that we can record them from on top of the skin , like you saw earlier .
so our approach is something we call targeted reinnervation .
imagine , with somebody who 's lost their whole arm , we still have four major nerves that go down your arm .
and we take the nerve away from your chest muscle and let these nerves grow into it .
now you think , " close hand , " and a little section of your chest contracts .
you think , " bend elbow , " a different section contracts .
and we can use electrodes or antennae to pick that up and tell the arm to move .
that 's the idea .
so this is the first man that we tried it on .
his name is jesse sullivan .
he 's just a saint of a man -- 54-year-old lineman who touched the wrong wire and had both of his arms burnt so badly they had to be amputated at the shoulder .
jesse came to us at the ric to be fit with these state-of-the-art devices , and here you see them .
i 'm still using that old technology with a bicycle cable on his right side .
and he picks which joint he wants to move with those chin switches .
on the left side he 's got a modern motorized prosthesis with those three joints , and he operates little pads in his shoulder that he touches to make the arm go .
and jesse 's a good crane operator , and he did okay by our standards .
he also required a revision surgery on his chest .
and that gave us the opportunity to do targeted reinnervation .
so my colleague , dr. greg dumanian , did the surgery . first , we cut away the nerve to his own muscle , then we took the arm nerves and just kind of had them shift down onto his chest and closed him up .
and after about three months , the nerves grew in a little bit and we could get a twitch .
and after six months , the nerves grew in well , and you could see strong contractions .
and this is what it looks like .
this is what happens when jesse thinks open and close his hand , or bend or straighten your elbow .
you can see the movements on his chest , and those little hash marks are where we put our antennae , or electrodes .
and i challenge anybody in the room to make their chest go like this .
his brain is thinking about his arm .
he has not learned how to do this with the chest .
there is not a learning process .
that 's why it 's intuitive .
so here 's jesse in our first little test with him .
on the left-hand side , you see his original prosthesis , and he 's using those switches to move little blocks from one box to the other .
he 's had that arm for about 20 months , so he 's pretty good with it .
on the right side , two months after we fit him with his targeted reinnervation prosthesis -- which , by the way , is the same physical arm , just programmed a little different -- you can see that he 's much faster and much smoother as he moves these little blocks .
and we 're only able to use three of the signals at this time .
then we had one of those little surprises in science .
so we 're all motivated to get motor commands to drive robotic arms .
and after a few months , you touch jesse on his chest , and he felt his missing hand .
his hand sensation grew into his chest again probably because we had also taken away a lot of fat , so the skin was right down to the muscle and deinnervated , if you would , his skin .
so you touch jesse here , he feels his thumb ; you touch it here , he feels his pinky .
he feels light touch down to one gram of force .
he feels hot , cold , sharp , dull , all in his missing hand , or both his hand and his chest , but he can attend to either .
so this is really exciting for us , because now we have a portal , a portal , or a way to potentially give back sensation , so that he might feel what he touches with his prosthetic hand .
imagine sensors in the hand coming up and pressing on this new hand skin .
so it was very exciting .
we 've also gone on with what was initially our primary population of people with above-the-elbow amputations .
and here we deinnervate , or cut the nerve away , just from little segments of muscle and leave others alone that give us our up-down signals and two others that will give us a hand open and close signal .
this was one of our first patients , chris .
you see him with his original device on the left there after eight months of use , and on the right , it is two months .
he 's about four or five times as fast with this simple little performance metric .
all right .
so one of the best parts of my job is working with really great patients who are also our research collaborators .
and we 're fortunate today to have amanda kitts come and join us .
please welcome amanda kitts .
so amanda , would you please tell us how you lost your arm ?
amanda kitts : sure . in 2006 , i had a car accident .
and i was driving home from work , and a truck was coming the opposite direction , came over into my lane , ran over the top of my car and his axle tore my arm off .
todd kuiken : okay , so after your amputation , you healed up .
and you 've got one of these conventional arms .
can you tell us how it worked ?
ak : well , it was a little difficult , because all i had to work with was a bicep and a tricep .
so for the simple little things like picking something up , i would have to bend my elbow , and then i would have to cocontract to get it to change modes .
when i did that , i had to use my bicep to get the hand to close , use my tricep to get it to open , cocontract again to get the elbow to work again . tk : so it was a little slow ?
ak : a little slow , and it was just hard to work . you had to concentrate a whole lot .
tk : okay , so i think about nine months later that you had the targeted reinnervation surgery , took six more months to have all the reinnervation .
then we fit her with a prosthesis .
and how did that work for you ?
ak : it works good .
i was able to use my elbow and my hand simultaneously .
i could work them just by my thoughts .
so i didn 't have to do any of the cocontracting and all that .
tk : a little faster ?
ak : a little faster . and much more easy , much more natural .
tk : okay , this was my goal .
for 20 years , my goal was to let somebody [ be ] able to use their elbow and hand in an intuitive way and at the same time .
and we now have over 50 patients around the world who have had this surgery , including over a dozen of our wounded warriors in the u.s. armed services .
the success rate of the nerve transfers is very high .
because we 're putting a big fat nerve onto a little piece of muscle .
and it provides intuitive control .
our functional testing , those little tests , all show that they 're a lot quicker and a lot easier .
and the most important thing is our patients have appreciated it .
so that was all very exciting .
but we want to do better .
there 's a lot of information in those nerve signals , and we wanted to get more .
you can move each finger . you can move your thumb , your wrist .
can we get more out of it ?
so we did some experiments where we saturated our poor patients with zillions of electrodes and then had them try to do two dozen different tasks -- from wiggling a finger to moving a whole arm to reaching for something -- and recorded this data .
and then we used some algorithms that are a lot like speech recognition algorithms ,
called pattern recognition .
see .
and here you can see , on jesse 's chest , when he just tried to do three different things , you can see three different patterns .
but i can 't put in an electrode and say , " go there . "
so we collaborated with our colleagues in university of new brunswick , came up with this algorithm control , which amanda can now demonstrate .
ak : so i have the elbow that goes up and down .
i have the wrist rotation that goes -- and it can go all the way around .
and i have the wrist flexion and extension .
and i also have the hand closed and open .
tk : thank you , amanda .
now this is a research arm , but it 's made out of commercial components from here down and a few that i 've borrowed from around the world .
it 's about seven pounds , which is probably about what my arm would weigh if i lost it right here .
obviously , that 's heavy for amanda .
and in fact , it feels even heavier , because it 's not glued on the same .
she 's carrying all the weight through harnesses .
so the exciting part isn 't so much the mechatronics , but the control .
so we 've developed a small microcomputer that is blinking somewhere behind her back and is operating this all by the way she trains it to use her individual muscle signals .
so amanda , when you first started using this arm , how long did it take to use it ?
ak : it took just about probably three to four hours to get it to train .
i had to hook it up to a computer , so i couldn 't just train it anywhere .
so if it stopped working , i just had to take it off .
so now it 's able to train with just this little piece on the back .
i can wear it around .
if it stops working for some reason , i can retrain it .
takes about a minute .
tk : so we 're really excited , because now we 're getting to a clinically practical device . and that 's where our goal is -- to have something clinically pragmatic to wear .
we 've also had amanda able to use some of our more advanced arms that i showed you earlier .
here 's amanda using an arm made by deka research corporation .
and i believe dean kamen presented it at ted a few years ago .
so amanda , you can see , has really good control .
it 's all the pattern recognition .
and it now has a hand that can do different grasps .
what we do is have the patient go all the way open and think , " what hand grasp pattern do i want ? "
it goes into that mode , and then you can do up to five or six different hand grasps with this hand .
amanda , how many were you able to do with the deka arm ?
ak : i was able to get four .
i had the key grip , i had a chuck grip , i had a power grasp and i had a fine pinch .
but my favorite one was just when the hand was open , because i work with kids , and so all the time you 're clapping and singing , so i was able to do that again , which was really good .
tk : that hand 's not so good for clapping .
ak : can 't clap with this one .
tk : all right . so that 's exciting on where we may go with the better mechatronics , if we make them good enough to put out on the market and use in a field trial .
i want you to watch closely .
claudia : oooooh !
tk : that 's claudia , and that was the first time she got to feel sensation through her prosthetic .
she had a little sensor at the end of her prosthesis that then she rubbed over different surfaces , and she could feel different textures of sandpaper , different grits , ribbon cable , as it pushed on her reinnervated hand skin .
she said that when she just ran it across the table , it felt like her finger was rocking .
so that 's an exciting laboratory experiment on how to give back , potentially , some skin sensation .
but here 's another video that shows some of our challenges .
this is jesse , and he 's squeezing a foam toy .
and the harder he squeezes -- you see a little black thing in the middle that 's pushing on his skin proportional to how hard he squeezes .
but look at all the electrodes around it .
i 've got a real estate problem .
you 're supposed to put a bunch of these things on there , but our little motor 's making all kinds of noise right next to my electrodes .
so we 're really challenged on what we 're doing there .
the future is bright .
we 're excited about where we are and a lot of things we want to do .
so for example , one is to get rid of my real estate problem and get better signals .
we want to develop these little tiny capsules about the size of a piece of risotto that we can put into the muscles and telemeter out the emg signals , so that it 's not worrying about electrode contact .
and we can have the real estate open to try more sensation feedback .
we want to build a better arm .
this arm -- they 're always made for the 50th percentile male -- which means they 're too big for five-eighths of the world .
so rather than a super strong or super fast arm , we 're making an arm that is -- we 're starting with , the 25th percentile female -- that will have a hand that wraps around , opens all the way , two degrees of freedom in the wrist and an elbow .
so it 'll be the smallest and lightest and the smartest arm ever made .
once we can do it that small , it 's a lot easier making them bigger .
so those are just some of our goals .
and we really appreciate you all being here today .
i 'd like to tell you a little bit about the dark side , with yesterday 's theme .
so amanda came jet-lagged , she 's using the arm , there was a computer spook , a broken wire , a converter that sparked .
we took out a whole circuit in the hotel and just about put on the fire alarm .
and none of those problems could i have dealt with , but i have a really bright research team .
and thankfully dr. annie simon was with us and worked really hard yesterday to fix it .
that 's science .
and fortunately , it worked today .
so thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / boghuma _ kabisen _ titanji _ ethical _ riddles _ in _ hiv _ research.html
it 's an all too common story : after participating in an hiv clinical trial , a woman in sub-saharan africa is left without the resources to buy a bus ticket to her health clinic , let alone to afford life-saving antiretrovirals . boghuma kabisen titanji asks an important question : how can researchers looking for a cure make sure they 're not taking advantage of those most affected by the pandemic ?
aids , global issues , health care , medicine
1645
boghuma kabisen titanji : ethical riddles in hiv research
i 'd like to share with you the story of one of my patients called celine .
celine is a housewife and lives in a rural district of cameroon in west central africa . six years ago , at the time of her hiv diagnosis , she was recruited to participate in the clinical trial which was running in her health district at the time .
when i first met celine , a little over a year ago , she had gone for 18 months without any antiretroviral therapy , and she was very ill .
she told me that she stopped coming to the clinic when the trial ended because she had no money for the bus fare and was too ill to walk the 35-kilometer distance .
now during the clinical trial , she 'd been given all her antiretroviral drugs free of charge , and her transportation costs had been covered by the research funds .
all of these ended once the trial was completed , leaving celine with no alternatives . she was unable to tell me the names of the drugs she 'd received during the trial , or even what the trial had been about .
i didn 't bother to ask her what the results of the trial were because it seemed obvious to me that she would have no clue .
yet what puzzled me most was celine had given her informed consent to be a part of this trial , yet she clearly did not understand the implications of being a participant or what would happen to her once the trial had been completed .
now , i have shared this story with you as an example of what can happen to participants in the clinical trial when it is poorly conducted .
maybe this particular trial yielded exciting results .
maybe it even got published in a high-profile scientific journal .
maybe it would inform clinicians around the world on how to improve on the clinical management of hiv patients .
but it would have done so at a price to hundreds of patients who , like celine , were left to their own devices once the research had been completed .
i do not stand here today to suggest in any way that conducting hiv clinical trials in developing countries is bad .
on the contrary , clinical trials are extremely useful tools , and are much needed to address the burden of disease in developing countries .
however , the inequalities that exist between richer countries and developing countries in terms of funding pose a real risk for exploitation , especially in the context of externally-funded research .
sadly enough , the fact remains that a lot of the studies that are conducted in developing countries could never be authorized in the richer countries which fund the research .
i 'm sure you must be asking yourselves what makes developing countries , especially those in sub-saharan africa , so attractive for these hiv clinical trials ?
well , in order for a clinical trial to generate valid and widely applicable results , they need to be conducted with large numbers of study participants and preferably on a population with a high incidence of new hiv infections .
sub-saharan africa largely fits this description , with 22 million people living with hiv , an estimated 70 percent of the 30 million people who are infected worldwide .
also , research within the continent is a lot easier to conduct due to widespread poverty , endemic diseases and inadequate health care systems .
a clinical trial that is considered to be potentially beneficial to the population is more likely to be authorized , and in the absence of good health care systems , almost any offer of medical assistance is accepted as better than nothing .
even more problematic reasons include lower risk of litigation , less rigorous ethical reviews , and populations that are willing to participate in almost any study that hints at a cure .
as funding for hiv research increases in developing countries and ethical review in richer countries become more strict , you can see why this context becomes very , very attractive .
the high prevalence of hiv drives researchers to conduct research that is sometimes scientifically acceptable but on many levels ethically questionable .
how then can we ensure that , in our search for the cure , we do not take an unfair advantage of those who are already most affected by the pandemic ?
i invite you to consider four areas i think we can focus on in order to improve the way in which things are done .
the first of these is informed consent .
now , in order for a clinical trial to be considered ethically acceptable , participants must be given the relevant information in a way in which they can understand , and must freely consent to participate in the trial .
this is especially important in developing countries , where a lot of participants consent to research because they believe it is the only way in which they can receive medical care or other benefits .
consent procedures that are used in richer countries are often inappropriate or ineffective in a lot of developing countries .
for example , it is counterintuitive to have an illiterate study participant , like celine , sign a lengthy consent form that they are unable to read , let alone understand .
local communities need to be more involved in establishing the criteria for recruiting participants in clinical trials , as well as the incentives for participation .
the information in these trials needs to be given to the potential participants in linguistically and culturally acceptable formats .
the second point i would like for you to consider is the standard of care that is provided to participants within any clinical trial .
now , this is subject to a lot of debate and controversy . should the control group in the clinical trial be given the best current treatment which is available anywhere in the world ?
or should they be given an alternative standard of care , such as the best current treatment available in the country in which the research is being conducted ?
is it fair to evaluate a treatment regimen which may not be affordable or accessible to the study participants once the research has been completed ?
now , in a situation where the best current treatment is inexpensive and simple to deliver , the answer is straightforward .
however , the best current treatment available anywhere in the world is often very difficult to provide in developing countries .
it is important to assess the potential risks and benefits of the standard of care which is to be provided to participants in any clinical trial , and establish one which is relevant for the context of the study and most beneficial for the participants within the study .
that brings us to the third point i want you think about : the ethical review of research .
an effective system for reviewing the ethical suitability of clinical trials is primordial to safeguard participants within any clinical trial .
unfortunately , this is often lacking or inefficient in a lot of developing countries .
local governments need to set up effective systems for reviewing the ethical issues around the clinical trials which are authorized in different developing countries , and they need to do this by setting up ethical review committees that are independent of the government and research sponsors .
public accountability needs to be promoted through transparency and independent review by nongovernmental and international organizations as appropriate .
the final point i would like for you to consider tonight is what happens to participants in the clinical trial once the research has been completed .
i think it is absolutely wrong for research to begin in the first place without a clear plan for what would happen to the participants once the trial has ended .
now , researchers need to make every effort to ensure that an intervention that has been shown to be beneficial during a clinical trial is accessible to the participants of the trial once the trial has been completed .
in addition , they should be able to consider the possibility of introducing and maintaining effective treatments in the wider community once the trial ends .
if , for any reason , they feel that this might not be possible , then i think they should have to ethically justify why the clinical trial should be conducted in the first place .
now , fortunately for celine , our meeting did not end in my office .
i was able to get her enrolled into a free hiv treatment program closer to her home , and with a support group to help her cope .
her story has a positive ending , but there are thousands of others in similar situations who are much less fortunate .
although she may not know this , my encounter with celine has completely changed the way in which i view hiv clinical trials in developing countries , and made me even more determined to be part of the movement to change the way in which things are done .
i believe that every single person listening to me tonight can be part of that change .
if you are a researcher , i hold you to a higher standard of moral conscience , to remain ethical in your research , and not compromise human welfare in your search for answers .
if you work for a funding agency or pharmaceutical company , i challenge you to hold your employers to fund research that is ethically sound .
if you come from a developing country like myself , i urge you to hold your government to a more thorough review of the clinical trials which are authorized in your country .
yes , there is a need for us to find a cure for hiv , to find an effective vaccine for malaria , to find a diagnostic tool that works for t.b. , but i believe that we owe it to those who willingly and selflessly consent to participate in these clinical trials to do this in a humane way .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / dee _ boersma _ pay _ attention _ to _ penguins.html
think of penguins as ocean sentinels , says dee boersma -- they 're on the frontlines of sea change . sharing stories of penguin life and culture , she suggests that we start listening to what penguins are telling us .
animals , global issues , mission blue , oceans , science
861
dee boersma : pay attention to penguins
i want to talk about penguins today .
but first , i want to start by saying that we need a new operating system , for the oceans and for the earth .
when i came to the galapagos 40 years ago , there were 3,000 people that lived in the galapagos .
now there are over 30,000 .
there were two jeeps on santa cruz .
now , there are around a thousand trucks and buses and cars there .
so the fundamental problems that we face are overconsumption and too many people .
it 's the same problems in the galapagos , except , obviously , it 's worse here , in some ways , than other places .
because we 've only doubled the population of the earth since the 1960s -- a little more than doubled --
but we have 6.7 billion people in the world ,
and we all like to consume .
and one of the major problems that we have is our operating system is not giving us the proper feedback .
we 're not paying the true environmental costs of our actions .
and when i came at age 22 to live on fernandina , let me just say , that i had never camped before .
i had never lived alone for any period of time ,
and i 'd never slept with sea lions snoring next to me all night .
but moreover , i 'd never lived on an uninhabited island .
punta espinosa is where i lived for over a year ,
and we call it uninhabited because there are no people there . but it 's alive with life ;
it 's hardly uninhabited .
so a lot has happened in the last 40 years ,
and what i learned when i came to the galapagos is the importance of wild places , wild things , certainly wildlife , and the amazing qualities that penguins have .
penguins are real athletes :
they can swim 173 kilometers in a day .
they can swim at the same speed day and night --
that 's faster than any olympic swimmer .
i mean , they can do like seven kilometers an hour and sustain it .
but what is really amazing , because of this deepness here , emperor penguins can go down more than 500 meters
and they can hold their breath for 23 minutes .
magellanic penguins , the ones that i work on , they can dive to about 90 meters and they can stay down for about 4.6 minutes .
humans , without fins : 90 meters , 3.5 minutes . and i doubt anybody in this room could really hold their breath for 3.5 minutes .
you have to train to be able to do that .
so penguins are amazing athletes .
the other thing is , i 've never met anybody that really doesn 't say that they like penguins .
they 're comical , they walk upright , and , of course , they 're diligent .
and , more importantly , they 're well-dressed .
so they have all the criteria that people normally like .
but scientifically , they 're amazing because they 're sentinels .
they tell us about our world in a lot of different ways , and particularly the ocean .
this is a picture of a galapagos penguin that 's on the front of a little zodiac here in the galapagos .
and that 's what i came to study .
i thought i was going to study the social behavior of galapagos penguins , but you already know penguins are rare .
these are the rarest penguins in the world .
why i thought i was going to be able to do that , i don 't know .
but the population has changed dramatically since i was first here .
when i counted penguins for the first time and tried to do a census , we just counted all the individual beaks that we could around all these islands .
we counted around 2,000 , so i don 't know how many penguins there really are , but i know i can count 2,000 .
if you go and do it now , the national parks count about 500 .
so we have a quarter of the penguins that we did 40 years ago .
and this is true of most of our living systems .
we have less than we had before , and most of them are in fairly steep decline .
and i want to just show you a little bit about why .
that 's a penguin braying to tell you that it 's important to pay attention to penguins .
most important of all , i didn 't know what that was the first time i heard it .
and you can imagine sleeping on fernandina your first night there and you hear this lonesome , plaintful call .
i fell in love with penguins , and it certainly has changed the rest of my life .
what i found out i was studying is really the difference in how the galapagos changes , the most extreme variation .
you 've heard about these el ninos , but this is the extreme that penguins all over the world have to adapt to .
this is a cold-water event called la nina .
where it 's blue and it 's green , it means the water is really cold .
and so you can see this current coming up -- in this case , the humboldt current -- that comes all the way out to the galapagos islands ,
and this deep undersea current , the cromwell current , that upwells around the galapagos .
that brings all the nutrients :
when this is cold in the galapagos , it 's rich , and there 's plenty of food for everyone .
when we have extreme el nino events , you see all this red , and you see no green out here around the galapagos .
that means that there 's no upwelling , and there 's basically no food .
so it 's a real desert for not only for the penguins and the sea lions and the marine iguanas ...
things die when there 's no food .
but we didn 't even know that that affected the galapagos when i went to study penguins .
and you can imagine being on an island hoping you 're going to see penguins , and you 're in the middle of an el nino event and there are no penguins .
they 're not breeding ; they 're not even around .
i studied marine iguanas at that point .
but this is a global phenomenon , we know that .
and if you look along the coast of argentina , where i work now , at a place called punta tombo -- the largest magellanic penguin colony in the world down here about 44 degrees south latitude -- you see that there 's great variation here .
some years , the cold water goes all the way up to brazil , and other years , in these la nina years , it doesn 't .
so the oceans don 't always act together ; they act differently , but that is the kind of variation that penguins have to live with , and it 's not easy .
so when i went to study the magellanic penguins , i didn 't have any problems .
there were plenty of them .
this is a picture at punta tombo in february showing all the penguins along the beach .
i went there because the japanese wanted to start harvesting them and turning them into high fashion golf gloves , protein and oil .
fortunately , nobody has harvested any penguins and we 're getting over 100,000 tourists a year to see them .
but the population is declining
and it 's declined fairly substantially , about 21 percent since 1987 , when i started these surveys , in terms of number of active nests .
here , you can see where punta tombo is ,
and they breed in incredibly dense colonies .
we know this because of long-term science , because we have long-term studies there .
and science is important in informing decision makers , and also in changing how we do and knowing the direction of change that we 're going in .
and so we have this penguin project . the wildlife conservation society has funded me along with a lot of individuals over the last 27 years to be able to produce these kinds of maps .
and also , we know that it 's not only galapagos penguins that are in trouble , but magellanics and many other species of penguins .
and so we have started a global penguin society to try to focus on the real plight of penguins .
this is one of the plights of penguins : oil pollution .
penguins don 't like oil and they don 't like to swim through oil .
the nice thing is , if you look down here in argentina , there 's no surface oil pollution from this composite map .
but , in fact , when we went to argentina , penguins were often found totally covered in oil .
so they were just minding their own business .
they ended up swimming through ballast water that had oil in it .
because when tankers carry oil they have to have ballast at some point , so when they 're empty , they have the ballast water in there .
when they come back , they actually dump this oily ballast water into the ocean .
why do they do that ? because it 's cheaper , because they don 't pay the real environmental costs .
we usually don 't , and we want to start getting the accounting system right so we can pay the real cost .
at first , the argentine government said , " no , there 's no way .
you can 't find oiled penguins in argentina .
we have laws ,
and we can 't have illegal dumping ; it 's against the law . "
so we ended up spending nine years convincing the government that there were lots of oiled penguins .
in some years , like this year , we found more than 80 percent of the adult penguins dead on the beach were covered in oil .
these little blue dots are the fledglings -- we do this survey every march -- which means that they 're only in the environment from january until march , so maybe three months at the most that they could get covered in oil .
and you can see , in some years over 60 percent of the fledglings were oiled .
eventually , the government listened and , amazingly , they changed their laws .
they moved the tanker lanes 40 kilometers farther off shore , and people are not doing as much illegal dumping .
so what we 're seeing now is very few penguins are oiled .
why are there even these penguins oiled ?
because we 've solved the problem in chubut province , which is like a state in argentina where punta tombo is -- so that 's about 1,000 kilometers of coastline -- but we haven 't solved the problem in northern argentina , uruguay and brazil .
so now i want to show you that penguins are affected .
i 'm just going to talk about two things .
this is climate change . now this has really been a fun study because i put satellite tags on the back of these magellanic penguins .
try to convince donors to give you a couple thousand dollars to glue a satellite tag on the back of penguins .
but we 've been doing this now for more than a decade to learn where they go .
we thought we needed a marine protected area of about 30 kilometers , and then we put a satellite tag on the back of a penguin . and what the penguins show us -- and these are all the little dots from where the penguins ' positions were for penguins in incubation in 2003 --
and what you see is some of these individuals are going 800 kilometers away from their nests .
so that means as their mate is sitting on the nest incubating the eggs , the other one is out there foraging ,
and the longer they have to stay gone , the worse condition the mate is in when the mate comes back .
and , of course , all of this then leads to a vicious cycle and you can 't raise a lot of chicks .
here you see in 2003 -- these are all the dots of where the penguins are -- they were raising a little over a half of a chick .
here , you can see in 2006 , they raised almost three quarters of a chick per nest ,
and you can see that they 're closer to punta tombo ; they 're not going as far away .
this past year , in 2009 , you can see that they 're now raising about a fourth of a chick ,
and some of these individuals are going more than 900 kilometers away from their nests .
so it 's kind of like you having a job in chicago , and then you get transferred to st. louis , and your mate is not happy about this because you 've got to pay airfare , because you 're gone longer .
the same thing 's true for penguins as well .
and they 're going about , on average now , 40 kilometers farther than they did a decade ago .
we need to be able to get information out to the general public .
and so we started a publication with the society for conservation that we think presents cutting-edge science in a new , novel way , because we have reporters that are good writers that actually can distill the information and make it accessible to the general public .
so if you 're interested in cutting-edge science and smarter conservation , you should join with our 11 partners -- some of them here in this room , like the nature conservancy -- and look at this magazine because we need to get information out about conservation to the general public .
lastly i want to say that all of you , probably , have had some relationship at some time in your life with a dog , a cat , some sort of pet , and you recognized that those are individuals .
and some of you consider them almost part of your family .
if you had a relationship with a penguin , you 'd see it in the same sort of way .
they 're amazing creatures that really change how you view the world because they 're not that different from us :
they 're trying to make a living ,
they 're trying to raise their offspring ,
they 're trying to get on and survive in the world .
this is turbo the penguin .
turbo 's never been fed .
he met us and got his name because he started standing under my diesel truck : a turbo truck , so we named him turbo .
turbo has taken to knocking on the door with his beak ,
we let him in and he comes in here .
and i just wanted to show you what happened one day when turbo brought in a friend .
so this is turbo .
he 's coming up to one of my graduate students and flipper patting , which he would do to a female penguin .
and you can see , he 's not trying to bite .
this guy has never been in before and he 's trying to figure out , " what is going on ?
what is this guy doing ?
this is really pretty weird . "
and you 'll see soon that my graduate student ... and you see , turbo 's pretty intent on his flipper patting .
and now he 's looking at the other guy , saying , " you are really weird . "
and now look at this : not friendly .
so penguins really differ in their personalities just like our dogs and our cats .
we 're also trying to collect our information and become more technologically literate .
so we 're trying to put that in computers in the field .
and penguins are always involved in helping us or not helping us in one way or another .
this is a radio frequency id system .
you put a little piece of rice in the foot of a penguin that has a barcode , so it tells you who it is .
it walks over the pad , and you know who it is .
okay , so here are a few penguins coming in .
see , this one 's coming back to its nest .
they 're all coming in at this time , walking across there , just kind of leisurely coming in .
here 's a female that 's in a hurry . she 's got food .
she 's really rushing back , because it 's hot , to try to feed her chicks .
and then there 's another fellow that will leisurely come by .
look how fat he is . he 's walking back to feed his chicks .
then i realize that they 're playing king of the box .
this is my box up here , and this is the system that works .
you can see this penguin , he goes over , he looks at those wires , does not like that wire .
he unplugs the wire ; we have no data .
so , they really are pretty amazing creatures .
ok .
most important thing is : only you can change yourself ,
and only you can change the world and make it better , for people as well as penguins .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / parag _ khanna _ maps _ the _ future _ of _ countries.html
many people think the lines on the map no longer matter , but parag khanna says they do . using maps of the past and present , he explains the root causes of border conflicts worldwide and proposes simple yet cunning solutions for each .
economics , global issues , history , map , politics , state-building , war , world cultures
645
parag khanna maps the future of countries
do we live in a borderless world ?
before you answer that , have a look at this map .
contemporary political map shows that we have over 200 countries in the world today .
that 's probably more than at any time in centuries .
now , many of you will object .
for you this would be a more appropriate map .
you could call it tedistan .
in tedistan , there are no borders , just connected spaces and unconnected spaces .
most of you probably reside in one of the 40 dots on this screen , of the many more that represent 90 percent of the world economy .
but let 's talk about the 90 percent of the world population that will never leave the place in which they were born .
for them , nations , countries , boundaries , borders still matter a great deal , and often violently .
now here at ted , we 're solving some of the great riddles of science and mysteries of the universe .
well here is a fundamental problem we have not solved : our basic political geography .
how do we distribute ourselves around the world ?
now this is important , because border conflicts justify so much of the world 's military-industrial complex .
border conflicts can derail so much of the progress that we hope to achieve here .
so i think we need a deeper understanding of how people , money , power , religion , culture , technology interact to change the map of the world .
and we can try to anticipate those changes , and shape them in a more constructive direction .
so we 're going to look at some maps of the past , the present and some maps you haven 't seen in order to get a sense of where things are going .
let 's start with the world of 1945 .
1945 there were just 100 countries in the world .
after world war ii , europe was devastated , but still held large overseas colonies : french west africa , british east africa , south asia , and so forth .
then over the late ' 40s , ' 50s , ' 60s , ' 70s and ' 80s , waves of decolonization took place .
over 50 new countries were born .
you can see that africa has been fragmented .
india , pakistan , bangladesh , south east asian nations created .
then came the end of the cold war .
the end of the cold war and the disintegration of the soviet union .
you had the creation of new states in eastern europe , the former yugoslav republics and the balkans , and the ' stans of central asia .
today we have 200 countries in the world .
the entire planet is covered by sovereign , independent nation-states .
does that mean that someone 's gain has to be someone else 's loss ?
let 's zoom in on one of the most strategic areas of the world , eastern eurasia .
as you can see on this map , russia is still the largest country in the world .
and as you know , china is the most populous .
and they share a lengthy land border .
what you don 't see on this map is that most of russia 's 150 million people are concentrated in its western provinces and areas that are close to europe .
and only 30 million people are in its eastern areas .
in fact , the world bank predicts that russia 's population is declining towards about 120 million people and there is another thing that you don 't see on this map .
stalin , khrushchev and other soviet leaders forced russians out to the far east to be in gulags , labor camps , nuclear cities , whatever the case was .
but as oil prices rose , russian governments have invested in infrastructure to unite the country , east and west .
but nothing has more perversely impacted russia 's demographic distribution ,
because the people in the east , who never wanted to be there anyway , have gotten on those trains and roads and gone back to the west .
as a result , in the russian far east today , which is twice the size of india , you have exactly six million russians .
so let 's get a sense of what is happening in this part of the world .
we can start with mongolia , or as some call it , mine-golia .
why do they call it that ?
because in mine-golia , chinese firms operate and own most of the mines -- copper , zinc , gold -- and they truck the resources south and east into mainland china .
china isn 't conquering mongolia . it 's buying it .
colonies were once conquered . today countries are bought .
so let 's apply this principle to siberia .
siberia most of you probably think of as a cold , desolate , unlivable place .
but in fact , with global warming and rising temperatures , all of a sudden you have vast wheat fields and agribusiness , and grain being produced in siberia .
but who is it going to feed ?
well , just on the other side of the amo river , in the heilongjiang and harbin provinces of china , you have over 100 million people .
that 's larger than the entire population of russia .
every single year , for at least a decade or more , [ 60,000 ] of them have been voting with their feet , crossing , moving north and inhabiting this desolate terrain .
they set up their own bazaars and medical clinics .
they 've taken over the timber industry and been shipping the lumber east , back into china .
again , like mongolia , china isn 't conquering russia . it 's just leasing it .
that 's what i call globalization chinese style .
now maybe this is what the map of the region might look like in 10 to 20 years .
but hold on . this map is 700 years old .
this is the map of the yuan dynasty , led by kublai khan , the grandson of genghis khan .
so history doesn 't necessarily repeat itself , but it does rhyme .
this is just to give you a taste of what 's happening in this part of the world .
again , globalization chinese style .
because globalization opens up all kinds of ways for us to undermine and change the way we think about political geography . so , the history of east asia in fact , people don 't think about nations and borders .
they think more in terms of empires and hierarchies , usually chinese or japanese .
well it 's china 's turn again .
so let 's look at how china is re-establishing that hierarchy in the far east .
it starts with the global hubs .
remember the 40 dots on the nighttime map that show the hubs of the global economy ?
east asia today has more of those global hubs than any other region in the world .
tokyo , seoul , beijing , shanghai , hong kong , singapore and sidney .
these are the filters and funnels of global capital .
trillions of dollars a year are being brought into the region ,
so much of it being invested into china .
then there is trade .
these vectors and arrows represent ever stronger trade relationships that china has with every country in the region .
specifically , it targets japan and korea and australia , countries that are strong allies of the united states .
australia , for example , is heavily dependent on exporting iron ore and natural gas to china .
for poorer countries , china reduces tariffs so that laos and cambodia can sell their goods more cheaply and become dependent on exporting to china as well .
and now many of you have been reading in the news how people are looking to china to lead the rebound , the economic rebound , not just in asia , but potentially for the world .
the asian free trade zone , almost free trade zone , that 's emerging now has a greater trade volume than trade across the pacific .
so china is becoming the anchor of the economy in the region .
another pillar of this strategy is diplomacy .
china has signed military agreements with many countries in the region .
it has become the hub of diplomatic institutions such as the east asian community .
some of these organizations don 't even have the united states as a member .
there is a treaty of nonaggression between countries , such that if there were a conflict between china and the united states , most countries vow to just sit it out , including american allies like korea and australia .
another pillar of the strategy , like russia , is demographic .
china exports business people , nannies , students , teachers to teach chinese around the region , to intermarry and to occupy ever greater commanding heights of the economies .
already ethnic chinese people in malaysia , thailand and indonesia are the real key factors and drivers in the economies there .
chinese pride is resurgent in the region as a result .
singapore , for example , used to ban chinese language education .
now it encourages it .
if you add it all up what do you get ?
well , if you remember before world war ii , japan had a vision for a greater japanese co-prosperity sphere .
what 's emerging today is what you might call a greater chinese co-prosperity sphere .
so no matter what the lines on the map tell you in terms of nations and borders , what you really have emerging in the far east are national cultures , but in a much more fluid , imperial zone .
all of this is happening without firing a shot .
that 's most certainly not the case in the middle east where countries are still very uncomfortable in the borders left behind by european colonialists .
so what can we do to think about borders differently in this part of the world ?
what lines on the map should we focus on ?
what i want to present to you is what i call state building , day by day .
let 's start with iraq .
six years after the u.s. invasion of iraq , the country still exists more on a map than it does in reality .
oil used to be one of the forces holding iraq together ; now it is the most significant cause of the country 's disintegration .
the reason is kurdistan .
the kurds for 3,000 years have been waging a struggle for independence ,
and now is their chance to finally have it .
these are pipeline routes , which emerge from kurdistan , which is an oil-rich region .
and today , if you go to kurdistan , you 'll see that kurdish peshmerga guerillas are squaring off against the sunni iraqi army .
but what are they guarding ?
is it really a border on the map ?
no . it 's the pipelines .
if the kurds can control their pipelines , they can set the terms of their own statehood .
now should we be upset about this , about the potential disintegration of iraq ?
i don 't believe we should .
iraq will still be the second largest oil producer in the world , behind saudi arabia .
and we 'll have a chance to solve a 3,000 year old dispute .
now remember kurdistan is landlocked .
it has no choice but to behave .
in order to profit from its oil it has to export it through turkey or syria , and other countries , and iraq itself .
and therefore it has to have amicable relations with them .
now lets look at a perennial conflict in the region . that is , of course , in palestine .
palestine is something of a cartographic anomaly because it 's two parts palestinian , one part israel .
30 years of rose garden diplomacy have not delivered us peace in this conflict .
what might ? i believe that what might solve the problem is infrastructure .
today donors are spending billions of dollars on this .
these two arrows are an arc , an arc of commuter railroads and other infrastructure that link the west bank and gaza .
if gaza can have a functioning port and be linked to the west bank , you can have a viable palestinian state , palestinian economy .
that , i believe , is going to bring peace to this particular conflict .
the lesson from kurdistan and from palestine is that independence alone , without infrastructure , is futile .
now what might this entire region look like if in fact we focus on other lines on the map besides borders , when the insecurities might abate ?
the last time that was the case was actually a century ago , during the ottoman empire . this is the hejaz railway .
the hejaz railway ran from istanbul to medina via damascus . it even had an offshoot running to haifa in what is today israel , on the mediterranean sea .
but today the hejaz railway lies in tatters , ruins .
if we were to focus on reconstructing these curvy lines on the map , infrastructure , that cross the straight lines , the borders , i believe the middle east would be a far more peaceful region .
now let 's look at another part of the world , the former soviet republics of central asia , the ' stans .
these countries ' borders originate from stalin 's decrees .
he purposely did not want these countries to make sense .
he wanted ethnicities to mingle in ways that would allow him to divide and rule .
fortunately for them , most of their oil and gas resources were discovered after the soviet union collapsed .
now i know some of you may be thinking , " oil , oil , oil .
why is it all he 's talking about is oil ? "
well , there is a big difference in the way we used to talk about oil and the way we 're talking about it now .
before it was , how do we control their oil ?
now it 's their oil for their own purposes .
and i assure you it 's every bit as important to them as it might have been to colonizers and imperialists .
here are just some of the pipeline projections and possibilities and scenarios and routes that are being mapped out for the next several decades .
a great deal of them .
for a number of countries in this part of the world , having pipelines is the ticket to becoming part of the global economy and for having some meaning besides the borders that they are not loyal to themselves .
just take azerbaijan .
azerbaijan was a forgotten corner of the caucuses ,
but now with the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan pipeline into turkey , it has rebranded itself as the frontier of the west .
then there is turkmenistan , which most people think of as a frozen basket case .
but now it 's contributing gas across the caspian sea to provide for europe , and even a potentially turkmen- afghan-pakistan-india pipeline as well .
then there is kazakhstan , which didn 't even have a name before .
it was more considered south siberia during the soviet union .
today most people recognize kazakhstan as an emerging geopolitical player . why ?
because it has shrewdly designed pipelines to flow across the caspian , north through russia , and even east to china .
more pipelines means more silk roads , instead of the great game .
the great game connotes dominance of one over the other .
silk road connotes independence and mutual trust .
the more pipelines we have , the more silk roads we 'll have , and the less of a dominant great game competition we 'll have in the 21st century .
now let 's look at the only part of the world that really has brought down its borders , and how that has enhanced its strength .
and that is , of course , europe .
the european union began as just the coal and steel community of six countries ,
and their main purpose was really to keep the rehabilitation of germany to happen in a peaceful way .
but then eventually it grew into 12 countries ,
and those are the 12 stars on the european flag .
the e.u. also became a currency block , and is now the most powerful trade block in the entire world .
on average , the e.u. has grown by one country per year since the end of the cold war .
in fact most of that happened on just one day .
in 2004 , 15 new countries joined the e.u .
and now you have what most people consider a zone of peace spanning 27 countries and 450 million people .
so what is next ? what is the future of the european union ?
well in light blue , you see the zones or the regions that are at least two-thirds or more dependent on the european union for trade and investment .
what does that tell us ? trade and investment tell us that europe is putting its money where its mouth is .
even if these regions aren 't part of the e.u. , they are becoming part of its sphere of influence .
just take the balkans . croatia , serbia bosnia , they 're not members of the e.u. yet .
but you can get on a german ice train and make it almost to albania .
in bosnia you use the euro currency already , and that 's the only currency they 're probably ever going to have .
so , looking at other parts of europe 's periphery , such as north africa .
on average , every year or two , a new oil or gas pipeline opens up under the mediterranean , connecting north africa to europe .
that not only helps europe diminish its reliance on russia for energy , but if you travel to north africa today , you 'll hear more and more people saying that they don 't really think of their region as the middle east .
so in other words , i believe that president sarkozy of france is right when he talks about a mediterranean union .
now let 's look at turkey and the caucasus .
i mentioned azerbaijan before .
that corridor of turkey and the caucasus has become the conduit for 20 percent of europe 's energy supply .
so does turkey really have to be a member of the european union ?
i don 't think it does . i think it 's already part of a euro-turkish superpower .
so what 's next ? where are we going to see borders change and new countries born ?
well , south central asia , south west asia is a very good place to start .
eight years after the u.s. invaded afghanistan there is still a tremendous amount of instability .
pakistan and afghanistan are still so fragile that neither of them have dealt constructively with the problem of pashtun nationalism .
this is the flag that flies in the minds of 20 million pashtuns who live on both sides of the afghan and pakistan border .
let 's not neglect the insurgency just to the south ,
balochistan . two weeks ago , balochi rebels attacked a pakistani military garrison , and this was the flag that they raised over it .
the post-colonial entropy that is happening around the world is accelerating ,
and i expect more such changes to occur in the map as the states fragment .
of course , we can 't forget africa .
53 countries , and by far the most number of suspiciously straight lines on the map .
if we were to look at all of africa we could most certainly acknowledge far more , tribal divisions and so forth .
but let 's just look at sudan , the second-largest country in africa .
it has three ongoing civil wars , the genocide in darfur , which you all know about , the civil war in the east of the country , and south sudan .
south sudan is going to be having a referendum in 2011 in which it is very likely to vote itself independence .
now let 's go up to the arctic circle .
there is a great race on for energy resources under the arctic seabed .
who will win ? canada ? russia ? the united states ?
actually greenland .
several weeks ago greenland 's [ 60,000 ] people voted themselves self-governance rights from denmark .
so denmark is about to get a whole lot smaller .
what is the lesson from all of this ?
geopolitics is a very unsentimental discipline . it 's constantly morphing and changing the world , like climate change .
and like our relationship with the ecosystem we 're always searching for equilibrium in how we divide ourselves across the planet .
now we fear changes on the map .
we fear civil wars , death tolls , having to learn the names of new countries .
but i believe that the inertia of the existing borders that we have today is far worse and far more violent .
the question is how do we change those borders , and what lines do we focus on ?
i believe we focus on the lines that cross borders , the infrastructure lines . then we 'll wind up with the world we want , a borderless one .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / cynthia _ kenyon _ experiments _ that _ hint _ of _ longer _ lives.html
what controls aging ? biochemist cynthia kenyon has found a simple genetic mutation that can double the lifespan of a simple worm , c. elegans . the lessons from that discovery , and others , are pointing to how we might one day significantly extend youthful human life .
aging , biotech , genetics , medicine , science , technology
1274
cynthia kenyon : experiments that hint of longer lives
have you ever wanted to stay young a little longer and put off aging ?
this is a dream of the ages .
but scientists have for a long time thought this just was never going to be possible .
they thought you just wear out , there 's nothing you can do about it -- kind of like an old shoe .
but if you look in nature , you see that different kinds of animals can have really different lifespans .
now these animals are different from one another , because they have different genes .
so that suggests that somewhere in these genes , somewhere in the dna , are genes for aging , genes that allow them to have different lifespans .
so if there are genes like that , then you can imagine that , if you could change one of the genes in an experiment , an aging gene , maybe you could slow down aging and extend lifespan .
and if you could do that , then you could find the genes for aging .
and if they exist and you can find them , then maybe one could eventually do something about it .
so we 've set out to look for genes that control aging .
and we didn 't study any of these animals .
instead , we studied a little , tiny , round worm called c. elegans , which is just about the size of a comma in a sentence .
and we were really optimistic that we could find something because there had been a report of a long-lived mutant .
so we started to change genes at random , looking for long-lived animals .
and we were very lucky to find that mutations that damage one single gene called daf-2 doubled the lifespan of the little worm .
so you can see in black , after a month -- they 're very short-lived ; that 's why we like to study them for studies of aging -- in black , after a month , the normal worms are all dead .
but at that time , most of the mutant worms are still alive .
and it isn 't until twice as long that they 're all dead .
and now i want to show what they actually look like in this movie here .
so the first thing you 're going to see is the normal worm when it 's about college student age -- a young adult .
it 's quite a cute little fellow .
and next you 're going to see the long-lived mutant when it 's young .
so this animal is going to live twice as long .
is it miserable ? it doesn 't seem to be .
it 's active . you can 't tell the difference really .
and they can be completely fertile -- have the same number of progeny as the normal worms do .
now get out your handkerchiefs here .
you 're going to see , in just two weeks , the normal worms are old .
you can see the little head moving down at the bottom there .
but everything else is just lying there .
the animal 's clearly in the nursing home .
and if you look at the tissues of the animal , they 're starting to deteriorate .
you know , even if you 've never seen one of these little c. elegans -- which probably most of you haven 't seen one -- you can tell they 're old -- isn 't that interesting ?
so there 's something about aging that 's kind of universal .
and now here is the daf-2 mutant .
one gene is changed out of 20,000 , and look at it .
it 's the same age , but it 's not in the nursing home ;
it 's going skiing .
this is what 's really cool : it 's aging more slowly .
it takes this worm two days to age as much as the normal worm ages in one day .
and when i tell people about this , they tend to think of maybe an 80 or 90 year-old person who looks really good for being 90 or 80 .
but it 's really more like this : let 's say you 're a 30 year-old guy -- or in your 30s -- and you 're a bachelor and you 're dating people .
and you meet someone you really like , you get to know her .
and you 're in a restaurant , and you say , " well how old are you ? "
she says , " i 'm 60 . "
that 's what it 's like . and you would never know .
you would never know , until she told you .
okay .
so what is the daf-2 gene ?
well as you know , genes , which are part of the dna , they 're instructions to make a protein that does something .
and the daf-2 gene encodes a hormone receptor .
so what you see in the picture there is a cell with a hormone receptor in red punching through the edge of the cell .
so part of it is like a baseball glove .
part of it 's on the outside , and it 's catching the hormone as it comes by in green .
and the other part is on the inside where it sends signals into the cell .
okay , so what is the daf-2 receptor telling the inside of the cell ?
i just told you that , if you make a mutation in the daf-2 gene cell , that you get a receptor that doesn 't work as well ; the animal lives longer .
so that means that the normal function of this hormone receptor is to speed up aging .
that 's what that arrow means .
it speeds up aging . it makes it go faster .
so it 's like the animal has the grim reaper inside of itself , speeding up aging .
so this is altogether really , really interesting .
it says that aging is subject to control by the genes , and specifically by hormones .
so what kind of hormones are these ?
there 's lots of hormones . there 's testosterone , adrenalin .
you know about a lot of them .
these hormones are similar to hormones that we have in our bodies .
the daf-2 hormone receptor is very similar to the receptor for the hormone insulin and igf-1 .
now you 've all heard of at least insulin .
insulin is a hormone that promotes the uptake of nutrients into your tissues after you eat a meal .
and the hormone igf-1 promotes growth .
so these functions were known for these hormones for a long time , but our studies suggested that maybe they had a third function that nobody knew about -- maybe they also affect aging .
and it 's looking like that 's the case .
so after we made our discoveries with little c. elegans , people who worked on other kinds of animals started asking , if we made the same daf-2 mutation , the hormone receptor mutation , in other animals , will they live longer ?
and that is the case in flies .
if you change this hormone pathway in flies , they live longer .
and also in mice -- and mice are mammals like us .
so it 's an ancient pathway , because it must have arisen a long time ago in evolution such that it still works in all these animals .
and also , the common precursor also gave rise to people .
so maybe it 's working in people the same way .
and there are hints of this .
so for example , there was one study that was done in a population of ashkenazi jews in new york city .
and just like any population , most of the people live to be about 70 or 80 , but some live to be 90 or 100 .
and what they found was that people who lived to 90 or 100 were more likely to have daf-2 mutations -- that is , changes in the gene that encodes the receptor for igf-1 .
and these changes made the gene not act as well as the normal gene would have acted .
it damaged the gene .
so those are hints suggesting that humans are susceptible to the effects of the hormones for aging .
so the next question , of course , is : is there any effect on age-related disease ?
as you age , you 're much more likely to get cancer , alzheimer 's disease , heart disease , all sorts of diseases .
it turns out that these long-lived mutants are more resistant to all these diseases .
they hardly get cancer , and when they do it 's not as severe .
so it 's really interesting , and it makes sense in a way , that they 're still young , so why would they be getting diseases of aging until their old ?
so it suggests that , if we could have a therapeutic or a pill to take to replicate some of these effects in humans , maybe we would have a way of combating lots of different age-related diseases all at once .
so how can a hormone ultimately affect the rate of aging ?
how could that work ?
well it turns out that in the daf-2 mutants , a whole lot of genes are switched on in the dna that encode proteins that protect the cells and the tissues , and repair damage .
and the way that they 're switched on is by a gene regulator protein called foxo .
so in a daf-2 mutant -- you see that i have the x drawn here through the receptor .
the receptor isn 't working as well .
under those conditions , the foxo protein in blue has gone into the nucleus -- that little compartment there in the middle of the cell -- and it 's sitting down on a gene binding to it .
you see one gene . there are lots of genes actually that bind on foxo .
and it 's just sitting on one of them .
so foxo turns on a lot of genes .
and the genes it turns on includes antioxidant genes , genes i call carrot-giver genes , whose protein products actually help other proteins to function well -- to fold correctly and function correctly .
and it can also escort them to the garbage cans of the cell and recycle them if they 're damaged .
dna repair genes are more active in these animals .
and the immune system is more active .
and many of these different genes , we 've shown , actually contribute to the long lifespan of the daf-2 mutant .
so it 's really interesting .
these animals have within them the latent capacity to live much longer than they normally do .
they have the ability to protect themselves from many kinds of damage , which we think makes them live longer .
so what about the normal worm ?
well when the daf-2 receptor is active , then it triggers a series of events that prevent foxo from getting into the nucleus where the dna is .
so it can 't turn the genes on .
that 's how it works . that 's why we don 't see the long lifespan , until we have the daf-2 mutant .
but what good is this for the worm ?
well we think that insulin and igf-1 hormones are hormones that are particularly active under favorable conditions -- in the good times -- when food is plentiful and there 's not a lot of stress in the environment .
then they promote the uptake of nutrients .
you can store the food , use it for energy , grow , etc .
but what we think is that , under conditions of stress , the levels of these hormones drop -- for example , having limited food supply .
and that , we think , is registered by the animal as a danger signal , a signal that things are not okay and that it should roll out its protective capacity .
so it activates foxo , foxo goes to the dna , and that triggers the expression of these genes that improves the ability of the cell to protect itself and repair itself .
and that 's why we think the animals live longer .
so you can think of foxo as being like a building superintendent .
so maybe he 's a little bit lazy , but he 's there , he 's taking care of the building .
but it 's deteriorating .
and then suddenly , he learns that there 's going to be a hurricane .
so he doesn 't actually do anything himself .
he gets on the telephone -- just like foxo gets on the dna -- and he calls up the roofer , the window person , the painter , the floor person .
and they all come and they fortify the house .
and then the hurricane comes through , and the house is in much better condition than it would normally have been in .
and not only that , it can also just last longer , even if there isn 't a hurricane .
so that 's the concept here for how we think this life extension ability exists .
now the really cool thing about foxo is that there are different forms of it .
we all have foxo genes , but we don 't all have exactly the same form of the foxo gene .
just like we all have eyes , but some of us have blue eyes and some of us have brown eyes .
and there are certain forms of the foxo gene that have found to be more frequently present in people who live to be 90 or 100 .
and that 's the case all over the world , as you can see from these stars .
and each one of these stars represents a population where scientists have asked , " okay , are there differences in the type of foxo genes among people who live a really long time ? " and there are .
we don 't know the details of how this works , but we do know then that foxo genes can impact the lifespan of people .
and that means that , maybe if we tweak it a little bit , we can increase the health and longevity of people .
so this is really exciting to me .
a foxo is a protein that we found in these little , round worms to affect lifespan , and here it affects lifespan in people .
so we 've been trying in our lab now to develop drugs that will activate this foxo cell using human cells now in order to try and come up with drugs that will delay aging and age-related diseases .
and i 'm really optimistic that this is going to work .
there are lots of different proteins that are known to affect aging .
and for at least one of them , there is a drug .
there 's one called tor , which is another nutrient sensor , like the insulin pathway .
and mutations that damage the tor gene -- just like the daf-2 mutations -- extend lifespan in worms and flies and mice .
but in this case , there 's already a drug called rapamycin that binds to the tor protein and inhibits its activity .
and you can take rapamycin and give it to a mouse -- even when it 's pretty old , like age 60 for a human , that old for a mouse -- if you give the mouse rapamycin , it will live longer .
now i don 't want you all to go out taking rapamycin .
it is a drug for people , but the reason is it suppresses the immune system .
so people take it to prevent organ transplants from being rejected .
so this may not be the perfect drug for staying young longer .
but still , here in the year 2011 , there 's a drug that you can give to mice at a pretty old age that will extend their lifespan , which comes out of this science that 's been done in all these different animals .
so i 'm really optimistic , and i think it won 't be too long , i hope , before this age-old dream begins to come true .
thank you .
matt ridley : thank you , cynthia .
let me get this straight . although you 're looking for a drug that can solve aging in old men like me , what you could do now pretty well in the lab , if you were allowed ethically , is start a human life from scratch with altered genes that would make it live for a lot longer ?
ck : ah , so the kinds of drugs i was talking about would not change the genes , they would just bind to the protein itself and change its activity .
so if you stop taking the drug , the protein would go back to normal .
you could change the genes in principle .
there isn 't the technology to do that .
but i don 't think that 's a good idea .
and the reason is that these hormones , like the insulin and the igf hormones and the tor pathway , they 're essential .
if you knock them out completely , then you 're very sick .
so it might be that you would just have to fine tune it very carefully to get the benefits without getting any problems .
and i think that 's much better , that kind of control would be much better as a drug .
and also , there are other ways of activating foxo that don 't even involve insulin or igf-1 that might even be safer .
mr : i wasn 't suggesting that i was going to go and do it , but ...
there 's a phenomenon which you have written about and spoken about , which is a negligible senescence .
there are some creatures on this planet already that don 't really do aging .
just move to one side for us , if you would .
ck : there are . there are some animals that don 't seem to age .
for example , there are some tortoises called blanding 's turtles .
and they grow to be about this size .
and they 've been tagged , and they 've been found to be 70 years old .
and when you look at these 70 year-old turtles , you can 't tell the difference , just by looking , between those turtles and 20 year-old turtles .
and the 70 year-old ones , actually they 're better at scouting out the good nesting places , and they also have more progeny every year .
and there are other examples of these kinds of animals , like turns , certain kinds of birds are like this .
and nobody knows if they really can live forever , or what keeps them from aging .
it 's not clear .
if you look at birds , which live a long time , cells from the birds tend to be more resistant to a lot of different environmental stresses like high temperature or hydrogen peroxide , things like that .
and our long-lived mutants are too .
they 're more resistant to these kinds of stresses .
so it could be that the pathways that i 've been talking about , which are set to run really quickly in the worm , have a different normal set point in something like a bird , so that a bird can live a lot longer .
and maybe they 're even set really differently in animals with no senescence at all -- but we don 't know .
mr : but what you 're talking about here is not extending human lifespan by preventing death , so much as extending human youthspan .
ck : yes , that 's right .
it 's more like , say , if you were a dog .
you notice that you 're getting old , and you look at your human and you think , " why isn 't this human getting old ? "
they 're not getting old in the dog 's lifespan .
it 's more like that .
but now we 're the human looking out and imagining a different human .
mr : thank you very much indeed , cynthia kenyon .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / dave _ meslin _ the _ antidote _ to _ apathy.html
local politics -- schools , zoning , council elections -- hit us where we live . so why don 't more of us actually get involved ? is it apathy ? dave meslin says no . he identifies 7 barriers that keep us from taking part in our communities , even when we truly care .
collaboration , community , culture , education , global issues , politics
1119
dave meslin : the antidote to apathy
how often do we hear that people just don 't care ?
how many times have you been told that real , substantial change isn 't possible because most people are too selfish , too stupid or too lazy to try to make a difference in their community ?
i propose to you today that apathy as we think we know it doesn 't actually exist , but rather , that people do care , but that we live in a world that actively discourages engagement by constantly putting obstacles and barriers in our way .
and i 'll give you some examples of what i mean .
let 's start with city hall .
you ever see one of these before ?
this is a newspaper ad .
it 's a notice of a zoning application change for a new office building so the neighborhood knows what 's happening .
as you can see , it 's impossible to read .
you need to get halfway down to even find out which address they 're talking about , and then farther down , in tiny 10-point font , to find out how to actually get involved .
imagine if the private sector advertised in the same way -- if nike wanted to sell a pair of shoes and put an ad in the paper like that .
now that would never happen .
you 'll never see an ad like that because nike actually wants you to buy their shoes .
whereas the city of toronto clearly doesn 't want you involved with the planning process , otherwise their ads would look something like this -- with all the information basically laid out clearly .
as long as the city 's putting out notices like this to try to get people engaged , then of course people aren 't going to be engaged .
but that 's not apathy ; that 's intentional exclusion .
public space .
the manner in which we mistreat our public spaces is a huge obstacle towards any type of progressive political change
because we 've essentially put a price tag on freedom of expression .
whoever has the most money gets the loudest voice , dominating the visual and mental environment .
the problem with this model is that there are some amazing messages that need to be said that aren 't profitable to say .
so you 're never going to see them on a billboard .
the media plays an important role in developing our relationship with political change , mainly by ignoring politics and focusing on celebrities and scandals ,
but even when they do talk about important political issues , they do it in a way that i feel discourages engagement .
and i 'll give you an example : the now magazine from last week -- progressive , downtown weekly in toronto .
this is the cover story .
it 's an article about a theater performance , and it starts with basic information about where it is , in case you actually want to go and see it after you 've read the article -- where , the time , the website .
same with this -- it 's a movie review , an art review , a book review -- where the reading is in case you want to go .
a restaurant -- you might not want to just read about it , maybe you want to go to the restaurant .
so they tell you where it is , what the prices are , the address , the phone number , etc . then you get to their political articles .
here 's a great article about an important election race that 's happening .
it talks about the candidates -- written very well -- but no information , no follow-up , no websites for the campaigns , no information about when the debates are , where the campaign offices are .
here 's another good article about a new campaign opposing privatization of transit without any contact information for the campaign .
the message seems to be that the readers are most likely to want to eat , maybe read a book , maybe see a movie , but not be engaged in their community .
and you might think this is a small thing , but i think it 's important because it sets a tone and it reinforces the dangerous idea that politics is a spectator sport .
heroes : how do we view leadership ?
look at these 10 movies . what do they have in common ?
anyone ?
they all have heroes who were chosen .
someone came up to them and said , " you 're the chosen one .
there 's a prophesy . you have to save the world . " and then someone goes off and saves the world because they 've been told to , with a few people tagging along .
this helps me understand why a lot of people have trouble seeing themselves as leaders
because it sends all the wrong messages about what leadership is about .
a heroic effort is a collective effort , number one .
number two , it 's imperfect ; it 's not very glamorous , and it doesn 't suddenly start and suddenly end .
it 's an ongoing process your whole life .
but most importantly , it 's voluntary .
it 's voluntary .
as long as we 're teaching our kids that heroism starts when someone scratches a mark on your forehead , or someone tells you that you 're part of a prophecy , they 're missing the most important characteristic of leadership , which is that it comes from within .
it 's about following your own dreams -- uninvited , uninvited -- and then working with others to make those dreams come true .
political parties : oh boy .
political parties could and should be one of the basic entry points for people to get engaged in politics .
instead , they 've become , sadly , uninspiring and uncreative organizations that rely so heavily on market research and polling and focus groups that they end up all saying the same thing , pretty much regurgitating back to us what we already want to hear at the expense of putting forward bold and creative ideas .
and people can smell that , and it feeds cynicism .
charitable status : groups who have charitable status in canada aren 't allowed to do advocacy . this is a huge problem and a huge obstacle to change because it means that some of the most passionate and informed voices are completely silenced , especially during election time .
which leads us to the last one , which is our elections .
as you may have noticed , our elections in canada are a complete joke .
we use out-of-date systems that are unfair and create random results .
canada 's currently led by a party that most canadians didn 't actually want .
how can we honestly and genuinely encourage more people to vote when votes don 't count in canada ?
you add all this up together and of course people are apathetic .
it 's like trying to run into a brick wall .
now i 'm not trying to be negative by throwing all these obstacles out and explaining what 's in our way .
quite the opposite : i actually think people are amazing and smart and that they do care .
but that , as i said , we live in this environment where all these obstacles are being put in our way .
as long as we believe that people , our own neighbors , are selfish , stupid or lazy , then there 's no hope .
but we can change all those things i mentioned .
we can open up city hall .
we can reform our electoral systems .
we can democratize our public spaces .
my main message is , if we can redefine apathy , not as some kind of internal syndrome , but as a complex web of cultural barriers that reinforces disengagement , and if we can clearly define , we can clearly identify , what those obstacles are , and then if we can work together collectively to dismantle those obstacles , then anything is possible .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / susan _ lim.html
pioneering surgeon susan lim performed the first liver transplant in asia . but a moral concern with transplants led her to look further , and to ask : could we be transplanting cells , not whole organs ? at the ink conference , she talks through her new research , discovering healing cells in some surprising places .
business , technology
1124
susan lim : transplant cells , not organs
so i was privileged to train in transplantation under two great surgical pioneers : thomas starzl , who performed the world 's first successful liver transplant in 1967 , and sir roy calne , who performed the first liver transplant in the u.k. in the following year .
i returned to singapore and , in 1990 , performed asia 's first successful cadaveric liver transplant procedure , but against all odds .
now when i look back , the transplant was actually the easiest part .
next , raising the money to fund the procedure .
but perhaps the most challenging part was to convince the regulators -- a matter which was debated in the parliament -- that a young female surgeon be allowed the opportunity to pioneer for her country .
but 20 years on , my patient , surinder , is asia 's longest surviving cadaveric liver transplant to date . and perhaps more important , i am the proud godmother to her 14 year-old son .
but not all patients on the transplant wait list are so fortunate .
the truth is , there are just simply not enough donor organs to go around .
as the demand for donor organs continues to rise , in large part due to the aging population , the supply has remained relatively constant .
in the united states alone , 100,000 men , women and children are on the waiting list for donor organs , and more than a dozen die each day because of a lack of donor organs .
the transplant community has actively campaigned in organ donation .
and the gift of life has been extended from brain-dead donors to living , related donors -- relatives who might donate an organ or a part of an organ , like a split liver graft , to a relative or loved one .
but as there was still a dire shortage of donor organs , the gift of life was then extended from living , related donors to now living , unrelated donors .
and this then has given rise to unprecedented and unexpected moral controversy .
how can one distinguish a donation that is voluntary and altruistic from one that is forced or coerced from , for example , a submissive spouse , an in-law , a servant , a slave , an employee ?
where and how can we draw the line ?
in my part of the world , too many people live below the poverty line .
and in some areas , the commercial gifting of an organ in exchange for monetary reward has led to a flourishing trade in living , unrelated donors .
shortly after i performed the first liver transplant , i received my next assignment , and that was to go to the prisons to harvest organs from executed prisoners .
i was also pregnant at the time .
pregnancies are meant to be happy and fulfilling moments in any woman 's life .
but my joyful period was marred by solemn and morbid thoughts -- thoughts of walking through the prison 's high-security death row , as this was the only route to take me to the makeshift operating room .
and at each time , i would feel the chilling stares of condemned prisoners ' eyes follow me .
and for two years , i struggled with the dilemma of waking up at 4 : 30 am on a friday morning , driving to the prison , getting down , gloved and scrubbed , ready to receive the body of an executed prisoner , remove the organs and then transport these organs to the recipient hospital and then graft the gift of life to a recipient the same afternoon .
no doubt , i was informed , the consent had been obtained .
but , in my life , the one fulfilling skill that i had was now invoking feelings of conflict -- conflict ranging from extreme sorrow and doubt at dawn to celebratory joy at engrafting the gift of life at dusk .
in my team , the lives of one or two of my colleagues were tainted by this experience .
some of us may have been sublimated , but really none of us remained the same .
i was troubled that the retrieval of organs from executed prisoners was at least as morally controversial as the harvesting of stem cells from human embryos .
and in my mind , i realized as a surgical pioneer that the purpose of my position of influence was surely to speak up for those who have no influence .
it made me wonder if there could be a better way -- a way to circumvent death and yet deliver the gift of life that might exponentially impact millions of patients worldwide .
now just about that time , the practice of surgery evolved from big to small , from wide open incisions to keyhole procedures , tiny incisions .
and in transplantation , concepts shifted from whole organs to cells .
in 1988 , at the university of minnesota , i participated in a small series of whole organ pancreas transplants .
i witnessed the technical difficulty .
and this inspired in my mind a shift from transplanting whole organs to perhaps transplanting cells .
i thought to myself , why not take the individual cells out of the pancreas -- the cells that secrete insulin to cure diabetes -- and transplant these cells ? -- technically a much simpler procedure than having to grapple with the complexities of transplanting a whole organ .
and at that time , stem cell research had gained momentum , following the isolation of the world 's first human embryonic stem cells in the 1990s .
the observation that stem cells , as master cells , could give rise to a whole variety of different cell types -- heart cells , liver cells , pancreatic islet cells -- captured the attention of the media and the imagination of the public .
i too was fascinated by this new and disruptive cell technology , and this inspired a shift in my mindset , from transplanting whole organs to transplanting cells .
and i focused my research on stem cells as a possible source for cell transplants .
today we realize that there are many different types of stem cells .
embryonic stem cells have occupied center stage , chiefly because of their pluripotency -- that is their ease in differentiating into a variety of different cell types .
but the moral controversy surrounding embryonic stem cells -- the fact that these cells are derived from five-day old human embryos -- has encouraged research into other types of stem cells .
now to the ridicule of my colleagues , i inspired my lab to focus on what i thought was the most non-controversial source of stem cells , adipose tissue , or fat , yes fat -- nowadays available in abundant supply -- you and i , i think , would be very happy to get rid of anyway .
fat-derived stem cells are adult stem cells .
and adult stem cells are found in you and me -- in our blood , in our bone marrow , in our fat , our skin and other organs .
and as it turns out , fat is one of the best sources of adult stem cells .
but adult stem cells are not embryonic stem cells .
and here is the limitation : adult stem cells are mature cells , and , like mature human beings , these cells are more restricted in their thought and more restricted in their behavior and are unable to give rise to the wide variety of specialized cell types , as embryonic stem cells [ can ] .
but in 2007 , two remarkable individuals , shinya yamanaka of japan and jamie thomson of the united states , made an astounding discovery .
they discovered that adult cells , taken from you and me , could be reprogrammed back into embryonic-like cells , which they termed ips cells , or induced pluripotent stem cells .
and so guess what , scientists around the world and in the labs are racing to convert aging adult cells -- aging adult cells from you and me -- they are racing to reprogram these cells back into more useful ips cells .
and in our lab , we are focused on taking fat and reprogramming mounds of fat into fountains of youthful cells -- cells that we may use to then form other , more specialized , cells , which one day may be used as cell transplants .
if this research is successful , it may then reduce the need to research and sacrifice human embryos .
indeed , there is a lot of hype , but also hope that the promise of stem cells will one day provide cures for a whole range of conditions .
heart disease , stroke , diabetes , spinal cord injury , muscular dystrophy , retinal eye diseases -- are any of these conditions relevant , personally , to you ?
in may 2006 , something horrible happened to me .
i was about to start a robotic operation , but stepping out of the elevator into the bright and glaring lights of the operating room , i realized that my left visual field was fast collapsing into darkness .
earlier that week , i had taken a rather hard knock during late spring skiing -- yes , i fell .
and i started to see floaters and stars , which i casually dismissed as too much high-altitude sun exposure .
what happened to me might have been catastrophic , if not for the fact that i was in reach of good surgical access .
and i had my vision restored , but not before a prolonged period of convalescence -- three months -- in a head down position .
this experience taught me to empathize more with my patients , and especially those with retinal diseases .
37 million people worldwide are blind , and 127 million more suffer from impaired vision .
stem cell-derived retinal transplants , now in a research phase , may one day restore vision , or part vision , to millions of patients with retinal diseases worldwide .
indeed , we live in both challenging as well as exciting times .
as the world population ages , scientists are racing to discover new ways to enhance the power of the body to heal itself through stem cells .
it is a fact that when our organs or tissues are injured , our bone marrow releases stem cells into our circulation .
and these stem cells then float in the bloodstream and hone in to damaged organs to release growth factors to repair the damaged tissue .
stem cells may be used as building blocks to repair damaged scaffolds within our body , or to provide new liver cells to repair damaged liver .
as we speak , there are 117 or so clinical trials researching the use of stem cells for liver diseases .
what lies ahead ?
heart disease is the leading cause of death worldwide .
1.1 million americans suffer heart attacks yearly .
4.8 million suffer cardiac failure .
stem cells may be used to deliver growth factors to repair damaged heart muscle or be differentiated into heart muscle cells to restore heart function .
there are 170 clinical trials investigating the role of stem cells in heart disease .
while still in a research phase , stem cells may one day herald a quantum leap in the field of cardiology .
stem cells provide hope for new beginnings -- small , incremental steps , cells rather than organs , repair rather than replacement .
stem cell therapies may one day reduce the need for donor organs .
powerful new technologies always present enigmas .
as we speak , the world 's first human embryonic stem cell trial for spinal cord injury is currently underway following the usfda approval .
and in the u.k. , neural stem cells to treat stroke are being investigated in a phase one trial .
the research success that we celebrate today has been made possible by the curiosity and contribution and commitment of individual scientists and medical pioneers .
each one has his story .
my story has been about my journey from organs to cells -- a journey through controversy , inspired by hope -- hope that , as we age , you and i may one day celebrate longevity with an improved quality of life .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / astonishing _ performance _ by _ a _ venezuelan _ youth _ orchestra _ 1.html
the teresa carreno youth orchestra contains the best high school musicians from venezuela 's life-changing music program , el sistema . led here by gustavo dudamel , they play shostakovich 's symphony no. 10 , 2nd movement , and arturo marquez ' danzon no. 2 .
ted prize , ted2009 , arts , children , culture , education , entertainment , music
466
gustavo dudamel leads el sistema 's top youth orchestra
chris anderson : and now we go live to caracas to see one of maestro abreu 's great proteges .
he is the new musical director of the los angeles philharmonic orchestra .
he 's the greatest young conductor in the world . gustavo dudamel !
gustavo dudamel : hi everybody in l.a .
hi quincy . hi maestro zander . hi mark .
we are very happy to have the possibility to be with you
in the other side of the world .
we can speak only with music .
we are very happy because we have the opportunity to have this angel in the world --
not only in our country , venezuela ,
but in our world .
he has given us the possibility
to have dreams and to make true the dreams .
and here are the results of this wonderful project that is the system in venezuela .
we hope to have , our maestro , to have orchestras in all the countries in all americas .
and we want to play a little piece for you by one of the most important composers
of america .
a mexican composer : arturo marquez .
" danzon no. 2 . "
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jenna _ mccarthy _ what _ you _ don _ t _ know _ about _ marriage.html
in this funny , casual talk from tedx , writer jenna mccarthy shares surprising research on how marriages really work . one tip : do not try to win an oscar for best actress .
culture , humor , love , relationships , sex
1357
jenna mccarthy : what you don 't know about marriage
every year in the united states alone , 2,077,000 couples make a legal and spiritual decision to spend the rest of their lives together ...
and not to have sex with anyone else , ever .
he buys a ring , she buys a dress .
they go shopping for all sorts of things .
she takes him to arthur murray for ballroom dancing lessons .
and the big day comes .
and they 'll stand before god and family and some guy her dad once did business with , and they 'll vow that nothing , not abject poverty , not life-threatening illness , not complete and utter misery will ever put the tiniest damper on their eternal love and devotion .
these optimistic young bastards promise to honor and cherish each other through hot flashes and mid-life crises and a cumulative 50-lb. weight gain , until that far-off day when one of them is finally able to rest in peace .
you know , because they can 't hear the snoring anymore .
and then they 'll get stupid drunk and smash cake in each others ' faces and do the " macarena , " and we 'll be there showering them with towels and toasters and drinking their free booze and throwing birdseed at them every single time -- even though we know , statistically , half of them will be divorced within a decade .
of course , the other half won 't , right ?
they 'll keep forgetting anniversaries and arguing about where to spend holidays and debating which way the toilet paper should come off of the roll .
and some of them will even still be enjoying each others ' company when neither of them can chew solid food anymore .
and researchers want to know why .
i mean , look , it doesn 't take a double-blind , placebo-controlled study to figure out what makes a marriage not work .
disrespect , boredom , too much time on facebook , having sex with other people .
but you can have the exact opposite of all of those things -- respect , excitement , a broken internet connection , mind-numbing monogamy -- and the thing still can go to hell in a hand basket .
so what 's going on when it doesn 't ?
what do the folks who make it all the way to side-by-side burial plots have in common ?
what are they doing right ?
what can we learn from them ?
and if you 're still happily sleeping solo , why should you stop what you 're doing and make it your life 's work to find that one special person that you can annoy for the rest of your life ?
well researchers spend billions of your tax dollars trying to figure that out .
they stalk blissful couples and they study their every move and mannerism .
and they try to pinpoint what it is that sets them apart from their miserable neighbors and friends .
and it turns out , the success stories share a few similarities , actually , beyond they don 't have sex with other people .
for instance , in the happiest marriages , the wife is thinner and better looking than the husband .
obvious , right .
it 's obvious that this leads to marital bliss because , women , we care a great deal about being thin and good looking , whereas men mostly care about sex ...
ideally with women who are thinner and better looking than they are .
the beauty of this research though is that no one is suggesting that women have to be thin to be happy ; we just have to be thinner than our partners .
so instead of all that laborious dieting and exercising , we just need to wait for them to get fat , maybe bake a few pies .
this is good information to have , and it 's not that complicated .
research also suggests that the happiest couples are the ones that focus on the positives .
for example , the happy wife .
instead of pointing out her husband 's growing gut or suggesting he go for a run , she might say , " wow , honey , thank you for going out of your way to make me relatively thinner . " these are couples who can find good in any situation .
" yeah , it was devastating when we lost everything in that fire , but it 's kind of nice sleeping out here under the stars , and it 's a good thing you 've got all that body fat to keep us warm . " one of my favorite studies found that the more willing a husband is to do house work , the more attractive his wife will find him .
because we needed a study to tell us this .
but here 's what 's going on here .
the more attractive she finds him , the more sex they have ; the more sex they have , the nicer he is to her ; the nicer he is to her , the less she nags him about leaving wet towels on the bed -- and ultimately , they live happily ever after .
in other words , men , you might want to pick it up a notch in the domestic department .
here 's an interesting one .
one study found that people who smile in childhood photographs are less likely to get a divorce .
this is an actual study , and let me clarify .
the researchers were not looking at documented self-reports of childhood happiness or even studying old journals .
the data were based entirely on whether people looked happy in these early pictures .
now i don 't know how old all of you are , but when i was a kid , your parents took pictures with a special kind of camera that held something called film , and , by god , film was expensive .
they didn 't take 300 shots of you in that rapid-fire digital video mode and then pick out the nicest , smileyest one for the christmas card .
oh no .
they dressed you up , they lined you up , and you smiled for the fucking camera like they told you to or you could kiss your birthday party goodbye .
but still , i have a huge pile of fake happy childhood pictures and i 'm glad they make me less likely than some people to get a divorce .
so what else can you do to safeguard your marriage ?
do not win an oscar for best actress .
i 'm serious .
bettie davis , joan crawford , hallie berry , hillary swank , sandra bullock , reese witherspoon , all of them single soon after taking home that statue .
they actually call it the oscar curse .
it is the marriage kiss of death and something that should be avoided .
and it 's not just successfully starring in films that 's dangerous .
it turns out , merely watching a romantic comedy causes relationship satisfaction to plummet .
apparently , the bitter realization that maybe it could happen to us , but it obviously hasn 't and it probably never will , makes our lives seem unbearably grim in comparison .
and theoretically , i suppose if we opt for a film where someone gets brutally murdered or dies in a fiery car crash , we are more likely to walk out of that theater feeling like we 've got it pretty good .
drinking alcohol , it seems , is bad for your marriage .
yeah .
i can 't tell you anymore about that one because i stopped reading it at the headline .
but here 's a scary one : divorce is contagious .
that 's right -- when you have a close couple friend split up , it increases your chances of getting a divorce by 75 percent .
now i have to say , i don 't get this one at all .
my husband and i have watched quite a few friends divide their assets and then struggle with being our age and single in an age of sexting and viagra and eharmony .
and i 'm thinking they 've done more for my marriage than a lifetime of therapy ever could .
so now you may be wondering , why does anyone get married ever ?
well the u.s. federal government counts more than a thousand legal benefits to being someone 's spouse -- a list that includes visitation rights in jail , but hopefully you 'll never need that one .
but beyond the profound federal perks , married people make more money .
we 're healthier , physically and emotionally .
we produce happier , more stable and more successful kids .
we have more sex than our supposedly swinging single friends -- believe it or not .
we even live longer , which is a pretty compelling argument for marrying someone you like a lot in the first place .
now if you 're not currently experiencing the joy of the joint tax return , i can 't tell you how to find a chore-loving person of the approximately ideal size and attractiveness who prefers horror movies and doesn 't have a lot of friends hovering on the brink of divorce , but i can only encourage you to try , because the benefits , as i 've pointed out , are significant .
the bottom line is , whether you 're in it or you 're searching for it , i believe marriage is an institution worth pursuing and protecting .
so i hope you 'll use the information i 've given you today to weigh your personal strengths against your own risk factors .
for instance , in my marriage , i 'd say i 'm doing okay .
one the one hand , i have a husband who 's annoyingly lean and incredibly handsome .
so i 'm obviously going to need fatten him up .
and like i said , we have those divorced friends who may secretly or subconsciously be trying to break us up .
so we have to keep an eye on that .
and we do like a cocktail or two .
on the other hand , i have the fake happy picture thing .
and also , my husband does a lot around the house , and would happily never see another romantic comedy as long as he lives .
so i 've got all those things going for me .
but just in case , i plan to work extra hard to not win an oscar anytime soon .
and for the good of your relationships , i would encourage you to do the same .
i 'll see you at the bar .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / gero _ miesenboeck.html
in the quest to map the brain , many scientists have attempted the incredibly daunting task of recording the activity of each neuron . gero miesenboeck works backward -- manipulating specific neurons to figure out exactly what they do , through a series of stunning experiments that reengineer the way fruit flies percieve light .
biology , brain , neurology , science
1000
gero miesenboeck reengineers a brain
i have a doppelganger .
dr. gero is a brilliant but slightly mad scientist in the " dragonball z : android saga . "
if you look very carefully , you see that his skull has been replaced with a transparent plexiglas dome so that the workings of his brain can be observed and also controlled with light .
that 's exactly what i do -- optical mind control .
but in contrast to my evil twin who lusts after world domination , my motives are not sinister .
i control the brain in order to understand how it works .
now wait a minute , you may say , how can you go straight to controlling the brain without understanding it first ?
isn 't that putting the cart before the horse ?
many neuroscientists agree with this view and think that understanding will come from more detailed observation and analysis .
they say , " if we could record the activity of our neurons , we would understand the brain . "
but think for a moment what that means .
even if we could measure what every cell is doing at all times , we would still have to make sense of the recorded activity patterns , and that 's so difficult , chances are we 'll understand these patterns just as little as the brains that produce them .
take a look at what brain activity might look like .
in this simulation , each black dot is one nerve cell .
the dot is visible whenever a cell fires an electrical impulse .
there 's 10,000 neurons here .
so you 're looking at roughly one percent of the brain of a cockroach .
your brains are about 100 million times more complicated .
somewhere , in a pattern like this , is you , your perceptions , your emotions , your memories , your plans for the future .
but we don 't know where , since we don 't know how to read the pattern .
we don 't understand the code used by the brain .
to make progress , we need to break the code .
but how ?
an experienced code-breaker will tell you that in order to figure out what the symbols in a code mean , it 's essential to be able to play with them , to rearrange them at will .
so in this situation too , to decode the information contained in patterns like this , watching alone won 't do . we need to rearrange the pattern .
in other words , instead of recording the activity of neurons , we need to control it .
it 's not essential that we can control the activity of all neurons in the brain , just some .
the more targeted our interventions , the better .
and i 'll show you in a moment how we can achieve the necessary precision .
and since i 'm realistic , rather than grandiose , i don 't claim that the ability to control the function of the nervous system will at once unravel all its mysteries .
but we 'll certainly learn a lot .
now , i 'm by no means the first person to realize how powerful a tool intervention is .
the history of attempts to tinker with the function of the nervous system is long and illustrious .
it dates back at least 200 years , to galvani 's famous experiments in the late 18th century and beyond .
galvani showed that a frog 's legs twitched when he connected the lumbar nerve to a source of electrical current .
this experiment revealed the first , and perhaps most fundamental , nugget of the neural code : that information is written in the form of electrical impulses .
galvani 's approach of probing the nervous system with electrodes has remained state-of-the-art until today , despite a number of drawbacks .
sticking wires into the brain is obviously rather crude .
it 's hard to do in animals that run around , and there is a physical limit to the number of wires that can be inserted simultaneously .
so around the turn of the last century , i started to think , " wouldn 't it be wonderful if one could take this logic and turn it upside down ? "
so instead of inserting a wire into one spot of the brain , re-engineer the brain itself so that some of its neural elements become responsive to diffusely broadcast signals such as a flash of light .
such an approach would literally , in a flash of light , overcome many of the obstacles to discovery .
first , it 's clearly a non-invasive , wireless form of communication .
and second , just as in a radio broadcast , you can communicate with many receivers at once .
you don 't need to know where these receivers are ,
and it doesn 't matter if these receivers move -- just think of the stereo in your car .
it gets even better , for it turns out that we can fabricate the receivers out of materials that are encoded in dna .
so each nerve cell with the right genetic makeup will spontaneously produce a receiver that allows us to control its function .
i hope you 'll appreciate the beautiful simplicity of this concept .
there 's no high-tech gizmos here , just biology revealed through biology .
now let 's take a look at these miraculous receivers up close .
as we zoom in on one of these purple neurons , we see that its outer membrane is studded with microscopic pores .
pores like these conduct electrical current and are responsible for all the communication in the nervous system .
but these pores here are special .
they are coupled to light receptors similar to the ones in your eyes .
whenever a flash of light hits the receptor , the pore opens , an electrical current is switched on , and the neuron fires electrical impulses .
because the light-activated pore is encoded in dna , we can achieve incredible precision .
this is because , although each cell in our bodies contains the same set of genes , different mixes of genes get turned on and off in different cells .
you can exploit this to make sure that only some neurons contain our light-activated pore and others don 't .
so in this cartoon , the bluish white cell in the upper-left corner does not respond to light because it lacks the light-activated pore .
the approach works so well that we can write purely artificial messages directly to the brain .
in this example , each electrical impulse , each deflection on the trace , is caused by a brief pulse of light .
and the approach , of course , also works in moving , behaving animals .
this is the first ever such experiment , sort of the optical equivalent of galvani 's .
it was done six or seven years ago by my then graduate student , susana lima .
susana had engineered the fruit fly on the left so that just two out of the 200,000 cells in its brain expressed the light-activated pore .
you 're familiar with these cells because they are the ones that frustrate you when you try to swat the fly .
they trained the escape reflex that makes the fly jump into the air
and fly away whenever you move your hand in position .
and you can see here that the flash of light has exactly the same effect .
the animal jumps , it spreads its wings , it vibrates them , but it can 't actually take off because the fly is sandwiched between two glass plates .
now to make sure that this was no reaction of the fly to a flash it could see , susana did a simple but brutally effective experiment .
she cut the heads off of her flies .
these headless bodies can live for about a day , but they don 't do much .
they just stand around and groom excessively .
so it seems that the only trait that survives decapitation is vanity .
anyway , as you 'll see in a moment , susana was able to turn on the flight motor of what 's the equivalent of the spinal cord of these flies and get some of the headless bodies to actually take off and fly away .
they didn 't get very far , obviously .
since we took these first steps , the field of optogenetics has exploded .
and there are now hundreds of labs using these approaches .
and we 've come a long way since galvani 's and susana 's first successes in making animals twitch or jump .
we can now actually interfere with their psychology in rather profound ways , as i 'll show you in my last example , which is directed at a familiar question .
life is a string of choices creating a constant pressure to decide what to do next .
we cope with this pressure by having brains , and within our brains , decision-making centers that i 've called here the " actor . "
the actor implements a policy that takes into account the state of the environment and the context in which we operate .
our actions change the environment , or context , and these changes are then fed back into the decision loop .
now to put some neurobiological meat on this abstract model , we constructed a simple one-dimensional world for our favorite subject , fruit flies .
each chamber in these two vertical stacks contains one fly .
the left and the right halves of the chamber are filled with two different odors , and a security camera watches as the flies pace up and down between them .
here 's some such cctv footage .
whenever a fly reaches the midpoint of the chamber where the two odor streams meet , it has to make a decision .
it has to decide whether to turn around and stay in the same odor , or whether to cross the midline and try something new .
these decisions are clearly a reflection of the actor 's policy .
now for an intelligent being like our fly , this policy is not written in stone but rather changes as the animal learns from experience .
we can incorporate such an element of adaptive intelligence into our model by assuming that the fly 's brain contains not only an actor , but a different group of cells , a " critic , " that provides a running commentary on the actor 's choices .
you can think of this nagging inner voice as sort of the brain 's equivalent of the catholic church , if you 're an austrian like me , or the super-ego , if you 're freudian , or your mother , if you 're jewish .
now obviously , the critic is a key ingredient in what makes us intelligent .
so we set out to identify the cells in the fly 's brain that played the role of the critic .
and the logic of our experiment was simple .
we thought if we could use our optical remote control to activate the cells of the critic , we should be able , artificially , to nag the actor into changing its policy .
in other words , the fly should learn from mistakes that it thought it had made but , in reality , it had not made .
so we bred flies whose brains were more or less randomly peppered with cells that were light addressable .
and then we took these flies and allowed them to make choices .
and whenever they made one of the two choices , chose one odor , in this case the blue one over the orange one , we switched on the lights .
if the critic was among the optically activated cells , the result of this intervention should be a change in policy .
the fly should learn to avoid the optically reinforced odor .
here 's what happened in two instances :
we 're comparing two strains of flies , each of them having about 100 light-addressable cells in their brains , shown here in green on the left and on the right .
what 's common among these groups of cells is that they all produce the neurotransmitter dopamine .
but the identities of the individual dopamine-producing neurons are clearly largely different on the left and on the right .
optically activating these hundred or so cells into two strains of flies has dramatically different consequences .
if you look first at the behavior of the fly on the right , you can see that whenever it reaches the midpoint of the chamber where the two odors meet , it marches straight through , as it did before .
its behavior is completely unchanged .
but the behavior of the fly on the left is very different .
whenever it comes up to the midpoint , it pauses , it carefully scans the odor interface as if it was sniffing out its environment , and then it turns around .
this means that the policy that the actor implements now includes an instruction to avoid the odor that 's in the right half of the chamber .
this means that the critic must have spoken in that animal , and that the critic must be contained among the dopamine-producing neurons on the left , but not among the dopamine producing neurons on the right .
through many such experiments , we were able to narrow down the identity of the critic to just 12 cells .
these 12 cells , as shown here in green , send the output to a brain structure called the " mushroom body , " which is shown here in gray .
we know from our formal model that the brain structure at the receiving end of the critic 's commentary is the actor .
so this anatomy suggests that the mushroom bodies have something to do with action choice .
based on everything we know about the mushroom bodies , this makes perfect sense .
in fact , it makes so much sense that we can construct an electronic toy circuit that simulates the behavior of the fly .
in this electronic toy circuit , the mushroom body neurons are symbolized by the vertical bank of blue leds in the center of the board .
these led 's are wired to sensors that detect the presence of odorous molecules in the air .
each odor activates a different combination of sensors , which in turn activates a different odor detector in the mushroom body .
so the pilot in the cockpit of the fly , the actor , can tell which odor is present simply by looking at which of the blue leds lights up .
what the actor does with this information depends on its policy , which is stored in the strengths of the connection , between the odor detectors and the motors that power the fly 's evasive actions .
if the connection is weak , the motors will stay off and the fly will continue straight on its course .
if the connection is strong , the motors will turn on and the fly will initiate a turn .
now consider a situation in which the motors stay off , the fly continues on its path and it suffers some painful consequence such as getting zapped .
in a situation like this , we would expect the critic to speak up and to tell the actor to change its policy .
we have created such a situation , artificially , by turning on the critic with a flash of light .
that caused a strengthening of the connections between the currently active odor detector and the motors .
so the next time the fly finds itself facing the same odor again , the connection is strong enough to turn on the motors and to trigger an evasive maneuver .
i don 't know about you , but i find it exhilarating to see how vague psychological notions evaporate and give rise to a physical , mechanistic understanding of the mind , even if it 's the mind of the fly .
this is one piece of good news .
the other piece of good news , for a scientist at least , is that much remains to be discovered .
in the experiments i told you about , we have lifted the identity of the critic , but we still have no idea how the critic does its job .
come to think of it , knowing when you 're wrong without a teacher , or your mother , telling you , is a very hard problem .
there are some ideas in computer science and in artificial intelligence as to how this might be done , but we still haven 't solved a single example of how intelligent behavior springs from the physical interactions in living matter .
i think we 'll get there in the not too distant future .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / robert _ full _ learning _ from _ the _ gecko _ s _ tail.html
biologist robert full studies the amazing gecko , with its supersticky feet and tenacious climbing skill . but high-speed footage reveals that the gecko 's tail harbors perhaps the most surprising talents of all .
animals , biology , biomechanics , design , materials , robots , technology
571
robert full : learning from the gecko 's tail
let me share with you today an original discovery .
but i want to tell it to you the way it really happened --
not the way i present it in a scientific meeting , or the way you 'd read it in a scientific paper .
it 's a story about beyond biomimetics , to something i 'm calling biomutualism .
i define that as an association between biology and another discipline ,
where each discipline reciprocally advances the other , but where the collective discoveries that emerge are beyond any single field .
now , in terms of biomimetics , as human technologies take on more of the characteristics of nature , nature becomes a much more useful teacher .
engineering can be inspired by biology by using its principles and analogies when they 're advantageous ,
but then integrating that with the best human engineering , ultimately to make something actually better than nature .
now , being a biologist , i was very curious about this .
these are gecko toes .
and we wondered how they use these bizarre toes to climb up a wall so quickly .
we discovered it . and what we found was that they have leaf-like structures on their toes , with millions of tiny hairs that look like a rug ,
and each of those hairs has the worst case of split-ends possible : about 100 to 1000 split ends that are nano-size .
and the individual has 2 billion of these nano-size split ends .
they don 't stick by velcro or suction or glue . they actually stick by intermolecular forces alone , van der waals forces .
and i 'm really pleased to report to you today that the first synthetic self-cleaning , dry adhesive has been made .
from the simplest version in nature , one branch ,
my engineering collaborator , ron fearing , at berkeley , had made the first synthetic version .
and so has my other incredible collaborator , mark cutkosky , at stanford --
he made much larger hairs than the gecko , but used the same general principles .
and here is its first test .
that 's kellar autumn , my former ph.d. student , professor now at lewis and clark , literally giving his first-born child up for this test .
more recently , this happened .
man : this the first time someone has actually climbed with it .
narrator : lynn verinsky , a professional climber , who appeared to be brimming with confidence .
lynn verinsky : honestly , it 's going to be perfectly safe . it will be perfectly safe .
man : how do you know ?
lynn verinsky : because of liability insurance .
narrator : with a mattress below and attached to a safety rope , lynn began her 60-foot ascent .
lynn made it to the top in a perfect pairing of hollywood and science .
man : so you 're the first human being to officially emulate a gecko .
lynn verinsky : ha ! wow . and what a privilege that has been .
robert full : that 's what she did on rough surfaces .
but she actually used these on smooth surfaces -- two of them -- to climb up , and pull herself up .
and you can try this in the lobby , and look at the gecko-inspired material .
now the problem with the robots doing this is that they can 't get unstuck , with the material .
this is the gecko 's solution . they actually peel their toes away from the surface , at high rates , as they run up the wall .
well i 'm really excited today to show you the newest version of a robot , stickybot , using a new hierarchical dry adhesive .
here is the actual robot .
and here is what it does .
and if you look , you can see that it uses the toe peeling , just like the gecko does .
if we can show some of the video , you can see it climbing up the wall .
there it is .
and now it can go on other surfaces because of the new adhesive that the stanford group was able to do in designing this incredible robot .
oh . one thing i want to point out is , look at stickybot .
you see something on it . it 's not just to look like a gecko .
it has a tail . and just when you think you 've figured out nature , this kind of thing happens .
the engineers told us , for the climbing robots , that , if they don 't have a tail , they fall off the wall .
so what they did was they asked us an important question .
they said , " well , it kind of looks like a tail . "
even though we put a passive bar there .
" do animals use their tails when they climb up walls ? "
what they were doing was returning the favor , by giving us a hypothesis to test , in biology , that we wouldn 't have thought of .
so of course , in reality , we were then panicked , being the biologists , and we should know this already .
we said , " well , what do tails do ? "
well we know that tails store fat , for example .
we know that you can grab onto things with them .
and perhaps it is most well known that they provide static balance .
it can also act as a counterbalance .
so watch this kangaroo .
see that tail ? that 's incredible !
marc raibert built a uniroo hopping robot .
and it was unstable without its tail .
now mostly tails limit maneuverability ,
like this human inside this dinosaur suit .
my colleagues actually went on to test this limitation , by increasing the moment of inertia of a student , so they had a tail , and running them through and obstacle course , and found a decrement in performance ,
like you 'd predict .
but of course , this is a passive tail .
and you can also have active tails .
and when i went back to research this , i realized that one of the great ted moments in the past , from nathan , we 've talked about an active tail .
video : myhrvold thinks tail-cracking dinosaurs were interested in love , not war .
robert full : he talked about the tail being a whip for communication .
it can also be used in defense .
pretty powerful .
so we then went back and looked at the animal .
and we ran it up a surface .
but this time what we did is we put a slippery patch that you see in yellow there .
and watch on the right what the animal is doing with its tail when it slips . this is slowed down 10 times .
so here is normal speed .
and watch it now slip , and see what it does with its tail .
it has an active tail that functions as a fifth leg ,
and it contributes to stability .
if you make it slip a huge amount , this is what we discovered .
this is incredible .
the engineers had a really good idea .
and then of course we wondered , okay , they have an active tail , but let 's picture them .
they 're climbing up a wall , or a tree .
and they get to the top and let 's say there 's some leaves there .
and what would happen if they climbed on the underside of that leaf , and there was some wind , or we shook it ?
and we did that experiment , that you see here .
and this is what we discovered .
now that 's real time . you can 't see anything .
but there it is slowed down .
what we discovered was the world 's fastest air-righting response .
for those of you who remember your physics , that 's a zero-angular-momentum righting response . but it 's like a cat .
you know , cats falling . cats do this . they twist their bodies .
but geckos do it better .
and they do it with their tail .
so they do it with this active tail as they swing around .
and then they always land in the sort of superman skydiving posture .
okay , now we wondered , if we were right , we should be able to test this in a physical model , in a robot .
so for ted we actually built a robot , over there , a prototype , with the tail .
and we 're going to attempt the first air-righting response in a tail , with a robot .
if we could have the lights on it .
okay , there it goes .
and show the video .
there it is .
and it works just like it does in the animal .
so all you need is a swing of the tail to right yourself .
now , of course , we were normally frightened because the animal has no gliding adaptations , so we thought , " oh that 's okay . we 'll put it in a vertical wind tunnel .
we 'll blow the air up , we 'll give it a landing target , a tree trunk , just outside the plexi-glass enclosure , and see what it does .
so we did . and here is what it does .
so the wind is coming from the bottom . this is slowed down 10 times .
it does an equilibrium glide . highly controlled .
this is sort of incredible . but actually it 's quite beautiful , when you take a picture of it .
and it 's better than that , it -- just in the slide -- maneuvers in mid-air .
and the way it does it , is it takes its tail and it swings it one way to yaw left , and it swings its other way to yaw right .
so we can maneuver this way .
and then -- we had to film this several times to believe this -- it also does this . watch this .
it oscillates its tail up and down like a dolphin .
it can actually swim through the air .
but watch its front legs . can you see what they are doing ?
what does that mean for the origin of flapping flight ?
maybe it 's evolved from coming down from trees , and trying to control a glide . stay tuned for that .
so then we wondered , " can they actually maneuver with this ? "
so there is the landing target . could they steer towards it with these capabilities ? here it is in the wind tunnel .
and it certainly looks like it .
you can see it even better from down on top .
watch the animal .
definitely moving towards the landing target .
watch the whip of its tail as it does it . look at that .
it 's unbelievable .
so now we were really confused ,
because there are no reports of it gliding .
so we went , " oh my god , we have to go to the field , and see if it actually does this . "
completely opposite of the way you 'd see it on a nature film , of course .
we wondered , " do they actually glide in nature ? "
well we went to the forests of singapore and southeast asia .
and the next video you see is the first time we 've showed this .
this is the actual video -- not staged , a real research video -- of animal gliding down . there is a red trajectory line .
look at the end to see the animal .
but then as it gets closer to the tree , look at the close-up . and see if you can see it land .
so there it comes down . there is a gecko at the end of that trajectory line .
you see it there ? there ? watch it come down .
now watch up there and you can see the landing . did you see it hit ?
it actually uses its tail too ,
just like we saw in the lab .
so now we can continue this mutualism by suggesting that they can make an active tail .
and here is the first active tail , in the robot , made by boston dynamics .
so to conclude , i think we need to build biomutualisms , like i showed , that will increase the pace of basic discovery in their application .
to do this though , we need to redesign education in a major way , to balance depth with interdisciplinary communication ,
and explicitly train people how to contribute to , and benefit from other disciplines .
and of course you need the organisms and the environment to do it .
that is , whether you care about security , search and rescue or health , we must preserve nature 's designs , otherwise these secrets will be lost forever .
and from what i heard from our new president , i 'm very optimistic . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / rob _ dunbar.html
rob dunbar hunts for data on our climate from 12,000 years ago , finding clues inside ancient seabeds and corals and inside ice sheets . his work is vital in setting baselines for fixing our current climate -- and in tracking the rise of deadly ocean acidification .
mission blue , oceans , science , technology
954
they went from retreating to the nurse 's station to discuss the various states and needs of patients , to developing a system that happened on the ward in front of patients , using a simple software tool .
by doing this they brought the time that they were away from patients down from 40 minutes to 12 minutes , on average .
they increased patient confidence and nurse happiness .
when you multiply that by all the nurses in all the wards in 40 hospitals in the system , it resulted , actually , in a pretty big impact .
and this is just one of thousands of opportunities in healthcare alone .
so these are just some of the kind of basic ideas around design thinking and some of the new kinds of projects that they 're being applied to .
but i 'd like to go back to brunel here , and suggest a connection that might explain why this is happening now , and maybe why design thinking is a useful tool .
and that connection is change .
in times of change we need new alternatives , new ideas .
now , brunel worked at the height of the industrial revolution , when all of life and our economy was being reinvented .
now the industrial systems of brunel 's time have run their course , and indeed they are part of the problem today .
but , again , we are in the midst of massive change .
and that change is forcing us to question quite fundamental aspects of our society -- how we keep ourselves healthy , how we govern ourselves , how we educate ourselves , how we keep ourselves secure .
and in these times of change , we need these new choices because our existing solutions are simply becoming obsolete .
so why design thinking ?
because it gives us a new way of tackling problems .
instead of defaulting to our normal convergent approach where we make the best choice out of available alternatives , it encourages us to take a divergent approach , to explore new alternatives , new solutions , new ideas that have not existed before .
but before we go through that process of divergence , there is actually quite an important first step .
and that is , what is the question that we 're trying to answer ?
what 's the design brief ?
now brunel may have asked a question like this , " how do i take a train from london to new york ? "
but what are the kinds of questions that we might ask today ?
so these are some that we 've been asked to think about recently .
and one in particular , is one that we 're working on with the acumen fund , in a project that 's been funded by the bill and melinda gates foundation .
how might we improve access to safe drinking water for the world 's poorest people , and at the same time stimulate innovation amongst local water providers ?
so instead of having a bunch of american designers come up with new ideas that may or may not have been appropriate , we took a sort of more open , collaborative and participative approach .
we teamed designers and investment experts up with 11 water organizations across india .
and through workshops they developed innovative new products , services , and business models .
we hosted a competition and then funded five of those organizations to develop their ideas .
so they developed and iterated these ideas .
and then ideo and acumen spent several weeks working with them to help design new social marketing campaigns , community outreach strategies , business models , new water vessels for storing water and carts for delivering water .
some of those ideas are just getting launched into the market .
and the same process is just getting underway with ngos in east africa .
so for me , this project shows kind of how far we can go from some of those sort of small things that i was working on at the beginning of my career .
that by focusing on the needs of humans and by using prototypes to move ideas along quickly , by getting the process out of the hands of designers , and by getting the active participation of the community , we can tackle bigger and more interesting questions .
and just like brunel , by focusing on systems , we can have a bigger impact .
so that 's one thing that we 've been working on .
i 'm actually really quite interested , and perhaps more interested to know what this community thinks we could work on .
what kinds of questions do we think design thinking could be used to tackle ?
and if you 've got any ideas then feel free , you can post them to twitter .
there is a hash tag there that you can use , # cbdq .
and the list looked something like this a little while ago .
and of course you can search to find the questions that you 're interested in by using the same hash code .
so i 'd like to believe that design thinking actually can make a difference , that it can help create new ideas and new innovations , beyond the latest high street products .
to do that i think we have to take a more expansive view of design , more like brunel , less a domain of a professional priesthood .
and the first step is to start asking the right questions .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / sheena _ iyengar _ on _ the _ art _ of _ choosing.html
sheena iyengar studies how we make choices -- and how we feel about the choices we make . at tedglobal , she talks about both trivial choices and profound ones , and shares her groundbreaking research that has uncovered some surprising attitudes about our decisions .
business , choice , culture , economics , psychology , social change , society
924
sheena iyengar on the art of choosing
today , i 'm going to take you around the world in 18 minutes .
my base of operations is in the u.s. , but let 's start at the other end of the map , in kyoto , japan , where i was living with a japanese family while i was doing part of my dissertational research 15 years ago .
i knew even then that i would encounter cultural differences and misunderstandings , but they popped up when i least expected it .
on my first day , i went to a restaurant , and i ordered a cup of green tea with sugar .
after a pause , the waiter said , " one does not put sugar in green tea . "
" i know , " i said . " i 'm aware of this custom .
but i really like my tea sweet . " in response , he gave me an even more courteous version of the same explanation .
" one does not put sugar in green tea . " " i understand , " i said , " that the japanese do not put sugar in their green tea ,
but i 'd like to put some sugar in my green tea . " surprised by my insistence , the waiter took up the issue with the manager .
pretty soon , a lengthy discussion ensued , and finally the manager came over to me and said , " i am very sorry . we do not have sugar . "
well , since i couldn 't have my tea the way i wanted it , i ordered a cup of coffee , which the waiter brought over promptly .
resting on the saucer were two packets of sugar .
my failure to procure myself a cup of sweet , green tea was not due to a simple misunderstanding .
this was due to a fundamental difference in our ideas about choice .
from my american perspective , when a paying customer makes a reasonable request based on her preferences , she has every right to have that request met .
the american way , to quote burger king , is to " have it your way , " because , as starbucks says , " happiness is in your choices . "
but from the japanese perspective , it 's their duty to protect those who don 't know any better -- in this case , the ignorant gaijin -- from making the wrong choice .
let 's face it : the way i wanted my tea was inappropriate according to cultural standards , and they were doing their best to help me save face .
americans tend to believe that they 've reached some sort of pinnacle in the way they practice choice .
they think that choice , as seen through the american lens best fulfills an innate and universal desire for choice in all humans .
unfortunately , these beliefs are based on assumptions that don 't always hold true in many countries , in many cultures .
at times they don 't even hold true at america 's own borders .
i 'd like to discuss some of these assumptions and the problems associated with them .
as i do so , i hope you 'll start thinking about some of your own assumptions and how they were shaped by your backgrounds .
first assumption : if a choice affects you , then you should be the one to make it .
this is the only way to ensure that your preferences and interests will be most fully accounted for .
it is essential for success .
in america , the primary locus of choice is the individual .
people must choose for themselves , sometimes sticking to their guns , regardless of what other people want or recommend .
it 's called " being true to yourself . "
but do all individuals benefit from taking such an approach to choice ?
mark lepper and i did a series of studies in which we sought the answer to this very question .
in one study , which we ran in japantown , san francisco , we brought seven- to nine-year-old anglo- and asian-american children into the laboratory , and we divided them up into three groups .
the first group came in , and they were greeted by miss smith , who showed them six big piles of anagram puzzles .
the kids got to choose which pile of anagrams they would like to do ,
and they even got to choose which marker they would write their answers with .
when the second group of children came in , they were brought to the same room , shown the same anagrams , but this time miss smith told them which anagrams to do and which markers to write their answers with .
now when the third group came in , they were told that their anagrams and their markers had been chosen by their mothers .
in reality , the kids who were told what to do , whether by miss smith or their mothers , were actually given the very same activity , which their counterparts in the first group had freely chosen .
with this procedure , we were able to ensure that the kids across the three groups all did the same activity , making it easier for us to compare performance .
such small differences in the way we administered the activity yielded striking differences in how well they performed .
anglo-americans , they did two and a half times more anagrams when they got to choose them , as compared to when it was chosen for them by miss smith or their mothers .
it didn 't matter who did the choosing , if the task was dictated by another , their performance suffered .
in fact , some of the kids were visibly embarrassed when they were told that their mothers had been consulted .
one girl named mary said , " you asked my mother ? "
in contrast , asian-american children performed best when they believed their mothers had made the choice , second best when they chose for themselves , and least well when it had been chosen by miss smith .
a girl named natsumi even approached miss smith as she was leaving the room and tugged on her skirt and asked , " could you please tell my mommy i did it just like she said ? " the first-generation children were strongly influenced by their immigrant parents ' approach to choice .
for them , choice was not just a way of defining and asserting their individuality , but a way to create community and harmony by deferring to the choices of people whom they trusted and respected .
if they had a concept of being true to one 's self , then that self , most likely , [ was ] composed , not of an individual , but of a collective .
success was just as much about pleasing key figures as it was about satisfying one 's own preferences .
or , you could say that the individual 's preferences were shaped by the preferences of specific others .
the assumption then that we do best when the individual self chooses only holds when that self is clearly divided from others .
when , in contrast , two or more individuals see their choices and their outcomes as intimately connected , then they may amplify one another 's success by turning choosing into a collective act .
to insist that they choose independently might actually compromise both their performance and their relationships .
yet that is exactly what the american paradigm demands .
it leaves little room for interdependence or an acknowledgment of individual fallibility .
it requires that everyone treat choice as a private and self-defining act .
people that have grown up in such a paradigm might find it motivating ,
but it is a mistake to assume that everyone thrives under the pressure of choosing alone .
the second assumption which informs the american view of choice goes something like this .
the more choices you have , the more likely you are to make the best choice .
so bring it on , walmart , with 100,000 different products , and amazon , with 27 million books and match.com with -- what is it ? -- 15 million date possibilities now .
you will surely find the perfect match .
let 's test this assumption by heading over to eastern europe .
here , i interviewed people who were residents of formerly communist countries , who had all faced the challenge of transitioning to a more democratic and capitalistic society .
one of the most interesting revelations came not from an answer to a question , but from a simple gesture of hospitality .
when the participants arrived for their interview , i offered them a set of drinks : coke , diet coke , sprite -- seven , to be exact .
during the very first session , which was run in russia , one of the participants made a comment that really caught me off guard .
" oh , but it doesn 't matter .
it 's all just soda . that 's just one choice . " i was so struck by this comment that from then on , i started to offer all the participants those seven sodas ,
and i asked them , " how many choices are these ? "
again and again , they perceived these seven different sodas , not as seven choices , but as one choice : soda or no soda .
when i put out juice and water in addition to these seven sodas , now they perceived it as only three choices -- juice , water and soda .
compare this to the die-hard devotion of many americans , not just to a particular flavor of soda , but to a particular brand .
you know , research shows repeatedly that we can 't actually tell the difference between coke and pepsi .
of course , you and i know that coke is the better choice .
for modern americans who are exposed to more options and more ads associated with options than anyone else in the world , choice is just as much about who they are as it is about what the product is .
combine this with the assumption that more choices are always better , and you have a group of people for whom every little difference matters and so every choice matters .
but for eastern europeans , the sudden availability of all these consumer products on the marketplace was a deluge .
they were flooded with choice before they could protest that they didn 't know how to swim .
when asked , " what words and images do you associate with choice ? " grzegorz from warsaw said , " ah , for me it is fear .
there are some dilemmas you see .
i am used to no choice . " bohdan from kiev said , in response to how he felt about the new consumer marketplace , " it is too much .
we do not need everything that is there . " a sociologist from the warsaw survey agency explained , " the older generation jumped from nothing to choice all around them .
they were never given a chance to learn how to react . " and tomasz , a young polish man said , " i don 't need twenty kinds of chewing gum .
i don 't mean to say that i want no choice , but many of these choices are quite artificial . " in reality , many choices are between things that are not that much different .
the value of choice depends on our ability to perceive differences between the options .
americans train their whole lives to play " spot the difference . "
they practice this from such an early age that they 've come to believe that everyone must be born with this ability .
in fact , though all humans share a basic need and desire for choice , we don 't all see choice in the same places or to the same extent .
when someone can 't see how one choice is unlike another , or when there are too many choices to compare and contrast , the process of choosing can be confusing and frustrating .
instead of making better choices , we become overwhelmed by choice , sometimes even afraid of it .
choice no longer offers opportunities , but imposes constraints .
it 's not a marker of liberation , but of suffocation by meaningless minutiae .
in other words , choice can develop into the very opposite of everything it represents in america when it is thrust upon those who are insufficiently prepared for it .
but it is not only other people in other places that are feeling the pressure of ever-increasing choice .
americans themselves are discovering that unlimited choice seems more attractive in theory than in practice .
we all have physical , mental and emotional limitations that make it impossible for us to process every single choice we encounter , even in the grocery store , let alone over the course of our entire lives .
a number of my studies have shown that when you give people 10 or more options when they 're making a choice , they make poorer decisions , whether it be health care , investment , other critical areas .
yet still , many of us believe that we should make all our own choices and seek out even more of them .
this brings me to the third , and perhaps most problematic , assumption : " you must never say no to choice . " to examine this , let 's go back to the u.s. and then hop across the pond to france .
right outside chicago , a young couple , susan and daniel mitchell , were about to have their first baby .
they 'd already picked out a name for her , barbara , after her grandmother .
one night , when susan was seven months pregnant , she started to experience contractions and was rushed to the emergency room .
the baby was delivered through a c-section , but barbara suffered cerebral anoxia , a loss of oxygen to the brain .
unable to breathe on her own , she was put on a ventilator .
two days later , the doctors gave the mitchells a choice :
they could either remove barbara off the life support , in which case she would die within a matter of hours , or they could keep her on life support , in which case she might still die within a matter of days .
if she survived , she would remain in a permanent vegetative state , never able to walk , talk or interact with others .
what do they do ?
what do any parent do ?
in a study i conducted with simona botti and kristina orfali , american and french parents were interviewed .
they had all suffered the same tragedy .
in all cases , the life support was removed , and the infants had died .
but there was a big difference .
in france , the doctors decided whether and when the life support would be removed , while in the united states , the final decision rested with the parents .
we wondered : does this have an effect on how the parents cope with the loss of their loved one ?
we found that it did .
even up to a year later , american parents were more likely to express negative emotions , as compared to their french counterparts .
french parents were more likely to say things like , " noah was here for so little time , but he taught us so much .
he gave us a new perspective on life . " american parents were more likely to say things like , " what if ? what if ? "
another parent complained , " i feel as if they purposefully tortured me .
how did they get me to do that ? " and another parent said , " i feel as if i 've played a role in an execution . " but when the american parents were asked if they would rather have had the doctors make the decision , they all said , " no . "
they could not imagine turning that choice over to another , even though having made that choice made them feel trapped , guilty , angry .
in a number of cases they were even clinically depressed .
these parents could not contemplate giving up the choice , because to do so would have gone contrary to everything they had been taught and everything they had come to believe about the power and purpose of choice .
in her essay , " the white album , " joan didion writes , " we tell ourselves stories in order to live .
we interpret what we see , select the most workable of the multiple choices .
we live entirely by the imposition of a narrative line upon disparate images , by the idea with which we have learned to freeze the shifting phantasmagoria , which is our actual experience . " the story americans tell , the story upon which the american dream depends , is the story of limitless choice .
this narrative promises so much : freedom , happiness , success .
it lays the world at your feet and says , " you can have anything , everything . "
it 's a great story , and it 's understandable why they would be reluctant to revise it .
but when you take a close look , you start to see the holes , and you start to see that the story can be told in many other ways .
americans have so often tried to disseminate their ideas of choice , believing that they will be , or ought to be , welcomed with open hearts and minds .
but the history books and the daily news tell us it doesn 't always work out that way .
the phantasmagoria , the actual experience that we try to understand and organize through narrative , varies from place to place .
no single narrative serves the needs of everyone everywhere .
moreover , americans themselves could benefit from incorporating new perspectives into their own narrative , which has been driving their choices for so long .
robert frost once said that , " it is poetry that is lost in translation . "
this suggests that whatever is beautiful and moving , whatever gives us a new way to see , cannot be communicated to those who speak a different language .
but joseph brodsky said that , " it is poetry that is gained in translation , " suggesting that translation can be a creative , transformative act .
when it comes to choice , we have far more to gain than to lose by engaging in the many translations of the narratives .
instead of replacing one story with another , we can learn from and revel in the many versions that exist and the many that have yet to be written .
no matter where we 're from and what your narrative is , we all have a responsibility to open ourselves up to a wider array of what choice can do , and what it can represent . and this does not lead to a paralyzing moral relativism .
rather , it teaches us when and how to act .
it brings us that much closer to realizing the full potential of choice , to inspiring the hope and achieving the freedom that choice promises but doesn 't always deliver .
if we learn to speak to one another , albeit through translation , then we can begin to see choice in all its strangeness , complexity and compelling beauty .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you .
sheena , there is a detail about your biography that we have not written in the program book .
but by now it 's evident to everyone in this room . you 're blind .
and i guess one of the questions on everybody 's mind is : how does that influence your study of choosing because that 's an activity that for most people is associated with visual inputs like aesthetics and color and so on ?
sheena iyengar : well , it 's funny that you should ask that because one of the things that 's interesting about being blind is you actually get a different vantage point when you observe the way sighted people make choices .
and as you just mentioned , there 's lots of choices out there that are very visual these days .
yeah , i -- as you would expect -- get pretty frustrated by choices like what nail polish to put on because i have to rely on what other people suggest .
and i can 't decide .
and so one time i was in a beauty salon , and i was trying to decide between two very light shades of pink .
and one was called " ballet slippers . "
and the other one was called " adorable . "
and so i asked these two ladies ,
and the one lady told me , " well , you should definitely wear ' ballet slippers . ' "
" well , what does it look like ? "
" well , it 's a very elegant shade of pink . "
" okay , great . "
the other lady tells me to wear " adorable . "
" what does it look like ? "
" it 's a glamorous shade of pink . "
and so i asked them , " well , how do i tell them apart ?
what 's different about them ? " and they said , " well , one is elegant , the other one 's glamorous . "
okay , we got that .
and the only thing they had consensus on : well , if i could see them , i would clearly be able to tell them apart .
and what i wondered was whether they were being affected by the name or the content of the color ,
so i decided to do a little experiment .
so i brought these two bottles of nail polish into the laboratory , and i stripped the labels off .
and i brought women into the laboratory , and i asked them , " which one would you pick ? "
50 percent of the women accused me of playing a trick , of putting the same color nail polish in both those bottles .
at which point you start to wonder who the trick 's really played on .
now , of the women that could tell them apart , when the labels were off , they picked " adorable , " and when the labels were on , they picked " ballet slippers . "
so as far as i can tell , a rose by any other name probably does look different and maybe even smells different .
bg : thank you . sheena iyengar . thank you sheena .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / peter _ hirshberg _ on _ tv _ and _ the _ web.html
in this absorbing look at emerging media and tech history , peter hirshberg shares some crucial lessons from silicon valley and explains why the web is so much more than " better tv . "
business , history , media , technology , telecom
339
peter hirshberg on tv and the web
well , good morning .
you know , the computer and television both recently turned 60 , and today i 'd like to talk about their relationship .
despite their middle age , if you 've been following the themes of this conference or the entertainment industry , it 's pretty clear that one has been picking on the other .
so it 's about time that we talked about how the computer ambushed television ,
or why the invention of the atomic bomb unleashed forces that lead to the writers ' strike .
and it 's not just what these are doing to each other , but it 's what the audience thinks that really frames this matter .
to get a sense of this , and it 's been a theme we 've talked about all week , i recently talked to a bunch of tweeners .
i wrote on cards : " television , " " radio , " " myspace , " " internet , " " pc . "
and i said , just arrange these , from what 's important to you and what 's not , and then tell me why .
let 's listen to what happens when they get to the portion of the discussion on television .
girl 1 : well , i think it 's important but , like , not necessary because you can do a lot of other stuff with your free time than watch programs .
peter hirshberg : which is more fun , internet or tv ?
girls : internet .
girl 2 : i think we -- the reasons , one of the reasons we put computer before tv is because nowadays , like , we have tv shows on the computer .
girl 2 : and then you can download onto your ipod .
ph : would you like to be the president of a tv network ?
girl 4 : i wouldn 't like it .
girl 2 : that would be so stressful .
girl 5 : no .
ph : how come ?
girl 5 : because they 're going to lose all their money eventually .
girl 3 : like the stock market , it goes up and down and stuff .
i think right now the computers will be at the top and everything will be kind of going down and stuff .
ph : there 's been an uneasy relationship between the tv business and the tech business , really ever since they both turned about 30 .
we go through periods of enthrallment , followed by reactions in boardrooms , in the finance community best characterized as , what 's the finance term ? ick pooey .
let me give you an example of this . the year is 1976 , and warner buys atari because video games are on the rise .
the next year they march forward and they introduce qube , the first interactive cable tv system , and the new york times heralds this as telecommunications moving to the home , convergence , great things are happening .
everybody in the east coast gets in the pictures -- citicorp , penney , rca -- all getting into this big vision .
by the way , this is about when i enter the picture .
i 'm going to do a summer internship at time warner .
that summer i 'm all -- i 'm at warner that summer -- i 'm all excited to work on convergence , and then the bottom falls out .
doesn 't work out too well for them , they lose money .
and i had a happy brush with convergence until , kind of , warner basically has to liquidate the whole thing .
that 's when i leave graduate school , and i can 't work in new york on kind of entertainment and technology because i have to be exiled to california , where the remaining jobs are , almost to the sea , to go to work for apple computer .
warner , of course , writes off more than 400 million dollars .
four hundred million dollars , which was real money back in the ' 70s .
but they were onto something and they got better at it .
by the year 2000 , the process was perfected . they merged with aol , and in just four years , managed to shed about 200 billion dollars of market capitalization , showing that they 'd actually mastered the art of applying moore 's law of successive miniaturization to their balance sheet .
now , i think that one reason that the media and the entertainment communities , or the media community , is driven so crazy by the tech community is that tech folks talk differently .
you know , for 50 years , we 've talked about changing the world , about total transformation .
for 50 years , it 's been about hopes and fears and promises of a better world . and i got to thinking , you know , who else talks that way ?
and the answer is pretty clearly -- it 's people in religion and in politics .
and so i realized that actually the tech world is best understood , not as a business cycle , but as a messianic movement .
we promise something great , we evangelize it , we 're going to change the world . it doesn 't work out too well , and so we actually go back to the well and start all over again , as the people in new york and l.a. look on in absolute , morbid astonishment .
but it 's this irrational view of things that drives us on to the next thing .
so , what i 'd like to ask is , if the computer is becoming a principal tool of media and entertainment , how did we get here ?
i mean , how did a machine that was built for accounting and artillery morph into media ?
of course , the first computer was built just after world war ii to solve military problems , but things got really interesting just a couple of years later -- 1949 with whirlwind ,
built at mit 's lincoln lab . jay forrester was building this for the navy , but you can 't help but see that the creator of this machine had in mind a machine that might actually be a potential media star .
so take a look at what happens when the foremost journalist of early television meets one of the foremost computer pioneers , and the computer begins to express itself .
journalist : it 's a whirlwind electronic computer .
with considerable trepidation , we undertake to interview this new machine .
jay forrester : hello new york , this is cambridge .
and this is the oscilloscope of the whirlwind electronic computer .
would you like if i used the machine ?
journalist : yes , of course . but i have an idea , mr. forrester .
since this computer was made in conjunction with the office of naval research , why don 't we switch down to the pentagon in washington and let the navy 's research chief , admiral bolster , give whirlwind the workout ?
calvin bolster : well , ed , this problem concerns the navy 's viking rocket .
this rocket goes up 135 miles into the sky .
now , at the standard rate of fuel consumption , i would like to see the computer trace the flight path of this rocket and see how it can determine , at any instant , say at the end of 40 seconds , the amount of fuel remaining , and the velocity at that set instant .
jf : over on the left-hand side , you will notice fuel consumption decreasing as the rocket takes off .
and on the right-hand side , there 's a scale that shows the rocket 's velocity .
the rocket 's position is shown by the trajectory that we 're now looking at .
and as it reaches the peak of its trajectory , the velocity , you will notice , has dropped off to a minimum .
then , as the rocket dives down , velocity picks up again toward a maximum velocity and the rocket hits the ground .
how 's that ?
journalist : what about that , admiral ?
cb : looks very good to me .
jf : and before leaving , we would like to show you another kind of mathematical problem that some of the boys have worked out in their spare time , in a less serious vein , for a sunday afternoon .
journalist : thank you very much indeed , mr. forrester and the mit lab .
ph : you know , so much was worked out : the first real-time interaction , the video display , pointing a gun . it lead to the microcomputer , but unfortunately , it was too pricey for the navy , and all of this would have been lost if it weren 't for a happy coincidence .
enter the atomic bomb .
we 're threatened by the greatest weapon ever , and knowing a good thing when it sees it , the air force decides it needs the biggest computer ever to protect us .
they adapt whirlwind to a massive air defense system , deploy it all across the frozen north , and spend nearly three times as much on this computer as was spent on the manhattan project building the a-bomb in the first place .
talk about a shot in the arm for the computer industry .
and you can imagine that the air force became a pretty good salesman .
here 's their marketing video .
narrator : in a mass raid , high-speed bombers could be in on us before we could determine their tracks .
and then it would be too late to act .
we cannot afford to take that chance .
it is to meet this threat that the air force has been developing sage , the semi-automatic ground environment system , to strengthen our air defenses .
this new computer , built to become the nerve center of a defense network , is able to perform all the complex mathematical problems involved in countering a mass enemy raid .
it is provided with its own powerhouse containing large diesel-driven generators , air-conditioning equipment , and cooling towers required to cool the thousands of vacuum tubes in the computer .
ph : you know , that one computer was huge .
there 's an interesting marketing lesson from it , which is basically , when you market a product , you can either say , this is going to be wonderful , it will make you feel better and enliven you . or there 's one other marketing proposition : if you don 't use our product , you 'll die .
this is a really good example of that .
this had the first pointing device . it was distributed , so it worked out -- distributed computing and modems -- so all these things could talk to each other .
about 20 percent of all the nation 's programmers were wrapped up in this thing , and it led to an awful lot of what we have today . it also used vacuum tubes .
you saw how huge it was , and to give you a sense for this -- because we 've talked a lot about moore 's law and making things small at this conference , so let 's talk about making things large .
if we took whirlwind and put it in a place that you all know , say , century city , it would fit beautifully .
you 'd kind of have to take century city out , but it could fit in there .
but like , let 's imagine we took the latest pentium processor , the latest core 2 extreme , which is a four-core processor that intel 's working on , it will be our laptop tomorrow .
to build that , what we 'd do with whirlwind technology is we 'd have to take up roughly from the 10 to mulholland , and from the 405 to la cienega just with those whirlwinds .
and then , the 92 nuclear power plants that it would take to provide the power would fill up the rest of los angeles .
that 's roughly a third more nuclear power than all of france creates .
so , the next time they tell you they 're on to something , clearly they 're not .
so -- and we haven 't even worked out the cooling needs .
but it gives you the kind of power that people have , that the audience has , and the reasons these transformations are happening .
all of this stuff starts moving into industry .
dec kind of reduces all this and makes the first mini-computer .
it shows up at places like mit , and then a mutation happens .
spacewar ! is built , the first computer game , and all of a sudden , interactivity and involvement and passion is worked out .
actually , many mit students stayed up all night long working on this thing , and many of the principles of gaming today were worked out .
dec knew a good thing about wasting time .
it shipped every one of its computers with that game .
meanwhile , as all of this is happening , by the mid- ' 50s , the business model of traditional broadcasting and cinema has been busted completely .
a new technology has confounded radio men and movie moguls and they 're quite certain that television is about to do them in .
in fact , despair is in the air .
and a quote that sounds largely reminiscent from everything i 've been reading all week . rca had david sarnoff , who basically commercialized radio , said this , " i don 't say that radio networks must die . every effort has been made and will continue to be made to find a new pattern , new selling arrangements and new types of programs that may arrest the declining revenues .
it may yet be possible to eke out a poor existence for radio , but i don 't know how . "
and of course , as the computer industry develops interactively , producers in the emerging tv business actually hit on the same idea .
and they fake it .
jack berry : boys and girls , i think you all know how to get your magic windows up on the set , you just get them out .
first of all , get your winky dink kits out .
put out your magic window and your erasing glove , and rub it like this .
that 's the way we get some of the magic into it , boys and girls .
then take it and put it right up against the screen of your own television set , and rub it out from the center to the corners , like this .
make sure you keep your magic crayons handy , your winky dink crayons and your erasing glove , because you 'll be using them during the show to draw like that .
you all set ? ok , let 's get right to the first story about dusty man .
come on into the secret lab .
ph : it was the dawn of interactive tv , and you may have noticed they wanted to sell you the winky dink kits .
those are the winky dink crayons . i know what you 're saying . " pete , i could use any ordinary open-source crayon , why do i have to buy theirs ? "
i assure you , that 's not the case .
turns out they told us directly that these are the only crayons you should ever use with your winky dink magic window , other crayons may discolor or hurt the window .
this proprietary principle of vendor lock-in would go on to be perfected with great success as one of the enduring principles of windowing systems everywhere .
it led to lawsuits -- -- federal investigations , and lots of repercussions , and that 's a scandal we won 't discuss today .
but we will discuss this scandal , because this man , jack berry , the host of " winky dink , " went on to become the host of " twenty one , " one of the most important quiz shows ever .
and it was rigged , and it became unraveled when this man , charles van doren , was outed after an unnatural winning streak , ending berry 's career .
and actually , ending the career of a lot of people at cbs .
it turns out there was a lot to learn about how this new medium worked .
and 50 years ago , if you 'd been at a meeting like this and were trying to understand the media , there was one prophet and only but one you wanted to hear from , professor marshall mcluhan .
he actually understood something about a theme that we 've been discussing all week . it 's the role of the audience in an era of pervasive electronic communications .
here he is talking from the 1960s .
marshall mcluhan : if the audience can become involved in the actual process of making the ad , then it 's happy . it 's like the old quiz shows . they were great tv because it gave the audience a role , something to do .
they were horrified when they discovered they 'd really been left out all the time because the shows were rigged .
now , then , this was a horrible misunderstanding of tv on the part of the programmers .
ph : you know , mcluhan talked about the global village .
if you substitute the word blogosphere , of the internet today , it is very true that his understanding is probably very enlightening now . let 's listen in to him .
mm : the global village is a world in which you don 't necessarily have harmony . you have extreme concern with everybody else 's business and much involvement in everybody else 's life .
it 's a sort of ann landers ' column writ large .
and it doesn 't necessarily mean harmony and peace and quiet , but it does mean huge involvement in everybody else 's affairs .
and so the global village is as big as a planet , and as small as a village post office .
ph : we 'll talk a little bit more about him later .
we 're now right into the 1960s .
it 's the era of big business and data centers for computing .
but all that was about to change .
you know , the expression of technology reflects the people and the time of the culture it was built in .
and when i say that code expresses our hopes and aspirations , it 's not just a joke about messianism , it 's actually what we do .
but for this part of the story , i 'd actually like to throw it to america 's leading technology correspondent , john markoff .
john markoff : do you want to know what the counterculture in drugs , sex , rock ' n ' roll and the anti-war movement had to do with computing ? everything .
it all happened within five miles of where i 'm standing , at stanford university , between 1960 and 1975 .
in the midst of revolution in the streets and rock and roll concerts in the parks , a group of researchers led by people like john mccarthy , a computer scientist at the stanford artificial intelligence lab , and doug engelbart , a computer scientist at sri , changed the world .
engelbart came out of a pretty dry engineering culture , but while he was beginning to do his work , all of this stuff was bubbling on the mid-peninsula .
there was lsd leaking out of kesey 's veterans ' hospital experiments and other areas around the campus , and there was music literally in the streets .
the grateful dead was playing in the pizza parlors .
people were leaving to go back to the land .
there was the vietnam war . there was black liberation . there was women 's liberation .
this was a remarkable place , at a remarkable time .
and into that ferment came the microprocessor .
i think it was that interaction that led to personal computing .
they saw these tools that were controlled by the establishment as ones that could actually be liberated and put to use by these communities that they were trying to build .
and most importantly , they had this ethos of sharing information .
i think these ideas are difficult to understand , because when you 're trapped in one paradigm , the next paradigm is always like a science fiction universe -- it makes no sense .
the stories were so compelling that i decided to write a book about them .
the title of the book is , " what the dormouse said : how the ' 60s counterculture shaped the personal computer industry . "
the title was taken from the lyrics to a jefferson airplane song . the lyrics go , " remember what the dormouse said . feed your head , feed your head , feed your head . "
ph : by this time , computing had kind of leapt into media territory , and in short order much of what we 're doing today was imagined in cambridge and silicon valley .
here 's the architecture machine group , the predecessor of the media lab , in 1981 .
meanwhile , in california , we were trying to commercialize a lot of this stuff .
hypercard was the first program to introduce the public to hyperlinks , where you could randomly hook to any kind of picture , or piece of text , or data across a file system , and we had no way of explaining it .
there was no metaphor . was it a database ?
a prototyping tool ? a scripted language ?
heck , it was everything . so we ended up writing a marketing brochure .
we asked a question about how the mind works , and we let our customers play the role of so many blind men filling out the elephant .
a few years later , we then hit on the idea of explaining to people the secret of , how do you get the content you want , the way you want it and the easy way ?
here 's the apple marketing video .
james burke : you 'll be pleased to know , i 'm sure , that there are several ways to create a hypercard interactive video .
the most involved method is to go ahead and produce your own videodisc as well as build your own hypercard stacks .
by far the simplest method is to buy a pre-made videodisc and hypercard stacks from a commercial supplier .
the method we illustrate in this video uses a pre-made videodisc but creates custom hypercard stacks .
this method allows you to use existing videodisc materials in ways which suit your specific needs and interests .
ph : i hope you realize how subversive that is .
that 's like a dick cheney speech .
you think he 's a nice balding guy , but he 's just declared war on the content business . find the commercial stuff , mash it up , tell the story your way .
now , as long as we confine this to the education market , and a personal matter between the computer and the file system , that 's fine , but as you can see , it was about to leap out and upset jack valenti and a lot of other people .
by the way , speaking of the filing system , it never occurred to us that these hyperlinks could go beyond the local area network .
a few years later , tim berners-lee worked that out .
it became a killer app of links , and today , of course , we call that the world wide web .
now , not only was i instrumental in helping apple miss the internet , but a couple of years later , i helped bill gates do the same thing .
the year is 1993
and he was working on a book and i was working on a video to help him kind of explain where we were all heading and how to popularize all this .
we were plenty aware that we were messing with media , and on the surface , it looks like we predicted a lot of the right things , but we also missed an awful lot . let 's take a look .
narrator : the pyramids , the colosseum , the new york subway system and tv dinners , ancient and modern wonders of the man-made world all .
yet each pales to insignificance with the completion of that magnificent accomplishment of twenty-first-century technology , the digital superhighway .
once it was only a dream of technoids and a few long-forgotten politicians .
the digital highway arrived in america 's living rooms late in the twentieth century .
let us recall the pioneers who made this technical marvel possible .
the digital highway would follow the rutted trail first blazed by alexander graham bell .
though some were incredulous ... man 1 : the phone company !
narrator : stirred by the prospects of mass communication and making big bucks on advertising , david sarnoff commercializes radio .
man 2 : never had scientists been put under such pressure and demand .
narrator : the medium introduced america to new products .
voice 1 : say , mom , windows for radio means more enjoyment and greater ease of use for the whole family .
be sure to enjoy windows for radio at home and at work .
narrator : in 1939 , the radio corporation of america introduced television .
man 2 : never had scientists been put under such pressure and demand .
narrator : eventually , the race to the future took on added momentum with the breakup of the telephone company .
and further stimulus came with the deregulation of the cable television industry , and the re-regulation of the cable television industry .
ted turner : we did the work to build this , this cable industry , now the broadcasters want some of our money . i mean , it 's ridiculous .
narrator : computers , once the unwieldy tools of accountants and other geeks , escaped the backrooms to enter the media fracas .
the world and all its culture reduced to bits , the lingua franca of all media .
and the forces of convergence exploded .
finally , four great industrial sectors combined .
telecommunications , entertainment , computing and everything else .
man 3 : we 'll see channels for the gourmet and we 'll see channels for the pet lover .
voice 2 : next on the gourmet pet channel , decorating birthday cakes for your schnauzer .
narrator : all of industry was in play , as investors flocked to place their bets .
at stake : the battle for you , the consumer , and the right to spend billions to send a lot of information into the parlors of america .
ph : we missed a lot . you know , you missed , we missed the internet , the long tail , the role of the audience , open systems , social networks .
it just goes to show how tough it is to come up with the right uses of media .
thomas edison had the same problem .
he wrote a list of what the phonograph might be good for when he invented it , and kind of only one of his ideas turned out to have been the right early idea .
well , you know where we 're going on from here .
we come into the era of the dotcom , the world wide web , and i don 't need to tell you about that because we all went through that bubble together .
but when we emerge from this and what we call web 2.0 , things actually are quite different . and i think it 's the reason that tv 's so challenged .
if internet one was about pages , now it 's about people .
it 's a customer , it 's an audience , it 's a person who 's participating .
it 's the formidable thing that is changing entertainment now .
mm : because it gave the audience a role , something to do .
ph : in my own company , technorati , we see something like 67,000 blog posts an hour come in .
that 's about 2,700 fresh , connective links across about 112 million blogs that are out there .
and it 's no wonder that as we head into the writers ' strike , odd things happen .
you know , it reminds me of that old saw in hollywood , that a producer is anyone who knows a writer .
i now think a network boss is anyone who has a cable modem .
but it 's not a joke . this is a real headline . " websites attract striking writers :
operators of sites like mydamnchannel.com could benefit from labor disputes . "
meanwhile , you have the tv bloggers going out on strike , in sympathy with the television writers .
and then you have tv guide , a fox property , which is about to sponsor the online video awards -- but cancels it out of sympathy with traditional television , not appearing to gloat .
to show you how schizophrenic this all is , here 's the head of myspace , or fox interactive , a news corp company , being asked , well , with the writers ' strike , isn 't this going to hurt news corp and help you online ?
man : but i , yeah , i think there 's an opportunity . as the strike continues , there 's an opportunity for more people to experience video on places like myspace tv .
ph : oh , but then he remembers he works for rupert murdoch .
man : yes , well , first , you know , i 'm part of news corporation as part of fox entertainment group . obviously , we hope that the strike is -- that the issues are resolved as quickly as possible .
ph : one of the great things that 's going on here is the globalization of content really is happening .
here is a clip from a video , from a piece of animation that was written by a writer in hollywood , animation worked out in israel , farmed out to croatia and india , and it 's now an international series .
narrator : the following takes place between the minutes of 2 : 15 p.m. and 2 : 18 p.m. ,
in the months preceding the presidential primaries .
voice 1 : you 'll have to stay here in the safe house until we get word the terrorist threat is over .
voice 2 : you mean we 'll have to live here , together ?
voice 2 : well , there goes the neighborhood .
ph : the company that created this , aniboom , is an interesting example of where this is headed . traditional tv animation costs , say , between 80,000 and 10,000 dollars a minute .
they 're producing things for between 1,500 and 800 dollars a minute .
and they 're offering their creators 30 percent of the back end , in a much more entrepreneurial manner . so , it 's a different model .
what the entertainment business is struggling with , the world of brands is figuring out .
for example , nike now understands that nike plus is not just a device in its shoe , it 's a network to hook its customers together .
and the head of marketing at nike says , " people are coming to our site an average of three times a week . we don 't have to go to them . " which means television advertising is down 57 percent for nike .
or , as nike 's head of marketing says , " we 're not in the business of keeping media companies alive .
we 're in the business of connecting with consumers . "
and media companies realize the audience is important also .
here 's a man announcing the new market watch from dow jones , powered 100 percent by the user experience on the home page -- user-generated content married up with traditional content .
it turns out you have a bigger audience and more interest if you hook up with them .
or , as geoffrey moore once told me , it 's intellectual curiosity that 's the trade that brands need in the age of the blogosphere .
and i think this is beginning to happen in the entertainment business .
one of my heroes is songwriter , ally willis , who just wrote " the color purple " and has been an r and -- rhythm and blues writer , and this is what she said about where songwriting 's going .
ally willis : where millions of collaborators wanted the song , because to look at them strictly as spam is missing what this medium is about .
ph : so , to wrap up , i 'd love to throw it back to marshall mcluhan , who , 40 years ago , was dealing with audiences that were going through just as much change , and i think that , today , traditional hollywood and the writers are framing this perhaps in the way that it was being framed before .
but i don 't need to tell you this , let 's throw it back to him .
narrator : we are in the middle of a tremendous clash between the old and the new .
mm : the medium does things to people and they are always completely unaware of this .
they don 't really notice the new medium that is wrapping them up .
they think of the old medium , because the old medium is always the content of the new medium , as movies tend to be the content of tv , and as books used to be the content , novels used to be the content of movies .
and so every time a new medium arrives , the old medium is the content , and it is highly observable , highly noticeable , but the real , real roughing up and massaging is done by the new medium , and it is ignored .
ph : i think it 's a great time of enthrallment .
there 's been more raw dna of communications and media thrown out there . content is moving from shows to particles that are batted back and forth , and part of social communications , and i think this is going to be a time of great renaissance and opportunity .
and whereas television may have gotten beat up , what 's getting built is a really exciting new form of communication , and we kind of have the merger of the two industries and a new way of thinking to look at it .
thanks very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / rob _ forbes _ on _ ways _ of _ seeing.html
rob forbes , the founder of design within reach , shows a gallery of snapshots that inform his way of seeing the world . charming juxtapositions , found art , urban patterns -- this slideshow will open your eyes to the world around you .
arts , beauty , business , design , exploration , photography
431
rob forbes on ways of seeing
i was listed on the online biography that said i was a design missionary .
that 's a bit lofty ; i 'm really more of something like a street walker .
i spend a lot of time in urban areas looking for design , and studying design in the public sector .
i take about 5,000 photographs a year , and i thought that i would edit from these , and try to come up with some images that might be appropriate and interesting to you .
and i used three criteria : the first was , i thought i 'd talk about real design within reach , design that 's free , not design not quite within reach , as we 're fondly known by our competition and competitors , but stuff that you can find on the streets , stuff that was free , stuff that was available to all people , and stuff that probably contains some other important messages .
i 'll use these sidewalks in rio as an example .
a very common public design done in the ' 50s .
it 's got a nice kind of flowing , organic form , very consistent with the brazilian culture --
i think good design adds to culture .
wholly inconsistent with san francisco or new york .
but i think these are my sort of information highways : i live in much more of an analog world , where pedestrian traffic and interaction and diversity exchange , and where i think the simple things under our feet have a great amount of meaning to us .
how did i get started in this business ?
i was a ceramic designer for about 10 years , and just loved utilitarian form --
simple things that we use every day , little compositions of color and surface on form .
this led me to starting a company called design within reach , a company dealing with simple forms , making good designers available to us , and also selling the personalities and character of the designers as well , and it seems to have worked .
a couple of years into the process , i spent a lot of time in europe traveling around , looking for design .
and i had a bit of a wake-up call in amsterdam : i was there going into the design stores , and mixing with our crowd of designers , and i recognized that a whole lot of stuff pretty much looked the same , and the effect of globalization has had that in our community also .
we know a lot about what 's going on with design around the world , and it 's getting increasingly more difficult to find design that reflects a unique culture .
i was walking around on the streets of amsterdam and i recognized , you know , the big story from amsterdam isn 't what 's in the design stores , it 's what 's out on the streets , and maybe it 's self-explanatory , but a city that hasn 't been taken over by modernism , that 's preserved its kind of architecture and character , and where the bicycle plays an important part of the way in which people get around and where pedestrian rights are protected .
and i write a newsletter that goes out every week , and i wrote an article about this , and it got such enormous response that i realized that design , that common design , that 's in the public area means a lot to people , and establishes kind of a groundwork and a dialog .
i then kind of thought about the other cities in europe where i spend a lot of time looking for design , like basel , where vitra is located , or in northern italy --
all cities where there are a whole lot of bicycles , and where pedestrian areas -- and i came to the conclusion that perhaps there was something about these important design centers that dealt with bicycles and foot traffic , and i 'm sure the skeptic eye would say , no , the correlation there is that there are universities and schools where people can 't afford cars , but it did seem that in many of these areas pedestrian traffic was protected .
you wouldn 't look at this and call this a designer bike : a designer bike is made of titanium or molybdenum .
but i began looking at design in a place like amsterdam and recognized , you know , the first job of design is to serve a social purpose .
and so i look at this bike as not being a designer bike , but being a very good example of design .
and since that time in amsterdam , i spent an increasing amount of time in the cities , looking at design for common evidence of design that really isn 't under so much of a designer 's signature .
i was in buenos aires very recently , and i went to see this bridge by santiago calatrava .
he 's a spanish architect and designer .
and the tourist brochures pointed me in the direction of this bridge --
i love bridges , metaphorically and symbolically and structurally --
and it was a bit of a disappointment , because of the sludge from the river was encrusted on it ; it really wasn 't in use .
and i recognized that oftentimes design , when you 're set up to see design , it can be a bit of a letdown .
but there were lots of other things going on in this area : it was a kind of construction zone ; a lot of buildings were going up .
and , approaching a building from a distance , you don 't see too much ; you get a little closer , and you arrive at a nice little composition that might remind you of a mondrian or a diebenkorn or something .
but to me it was an example of industrial materials with a little bit of colors and animation and a nice little still life -- kind of unintended piece of design .
and going a little closer , you get a different perspective .
i find these little vignettes , these little accidental pieces of design , to be refreshing .
they give me , i don 't know , a sense of correctness in the world and some visual delight in the knowledge that the building will probably never look as good as this simple industrial scaffolding that is there to serve .
down the road , there was another building , a nice visual structure : horizontal , vertical elements , little decorative lines going across , these magenta squiggles , the workmen being reduced to decorative elements , just a nice , kind of , breakup of the urban place .
and , you know , that no longer exists .
you 've captured it for a moment , and finding this little still life 's like listening to little songs or something : it gives me an enormous amount of pleasure .
antoine predock designed a wonderful ball stadium in san diego called petco park .
a terrific use of local materials , but inside you could find some interior compositions .
some people go to baseball stadiums to look at games ; i go and see design relationships .
just a wonderful kind of breakup of architecture , and the way that the trees form vertical elements .
red is a color in the landscape that is often on stop signs .
it takes your attention ; it has a great amount of emotion ; it stares back at you the way that a figure might .
just a piece of barrier tape construction stuff in italy .
construction site in new york : red having this kind of emotional power that 's almost an equivalent with the way in which --
cuteness of puppies and such .
side street in italy .
red drew me into this little composition , optimistic to me in the sense that maybe the public service 's mailbox , door service , plumbing . it looks as if these different public services work together to create some nice little compositions .
in italy , you know , almost everything , kind of , looks good .
simple menus put on a board , achieving , kind of , the sort of balance .
but i 'm convinced that it 's because you 're walking around the streets and seeing things .
red can be comical : it can draw your attention to the poor little personality of the little fire hydrant suffering from bad civic planning in havana .
color can animate simple blocks , simple materials : walking in new york , i 'll stop .
i don 't always know why i take photographs of things .
a nice visual composition of symmetry .
curves against sharp things .
it 's a comment on the way in which we deal with public seating in the city of new york .
i 've come across some other just , kind of , curious relationships of bollards on the street that have different interpretations , but -- these things amuse me .
sometimes a trash can -- this is just in the street in san francisco --
a trash can that 's been left there for 18 months creates a nice 45-degree angle against these other relationships , and turns a common parking spot into a nice little piece of sculpture .
so , there 's this sort of silent hand of design at work that i see in places that i go .
havana is a wonderful area .
it 's quite free of commercial clutter : you don 't see our logos and brands and names , and therefore you 're alert to things physically .
and this is a great protection of a pedestrian zone , and the repurposing of some colonial cannons to do that .
and cuba needs to be far more resourceful , because of the blockades and things , but a really wonderful playground .
i 've often wondered why italy is really a leader in modern design .
in our area , in furnishings , they 're sort of way at the top .
the dutch are good also , but the italians are good .
and i came across this little street in venice , where the communist headquarters were sharing a wall with this catholic shrine .
and i realized that , you know , italy is a place where they can accept these different ideologies and deal with diversity and not have the problem , or they can choose to ignore them , but these -- you don 't have warring factions , and i think that maybe the tolerance of the absurdity which has made italy so innovative and so tolerant .
the past and the present work quite well together in italy also , and i think that it 's recognizable there , and has an important effect on culture , because their public spaces are protected , their sidewalks are protected , and you 're actually able to confront these things physically , and i think this helps people get over their fear of modernism and other such things .
a change might be a typical street corner in san francisco .
and i use this -- this is , sort of , what i consider to be urban spam .
i notice this stuff because i walk a lot , but here , private industry is really kind of making a mess of the public sector .
and as i look at it , i sort of say , you know , the publications that report on problems in the urban area also contribute to it , and it 's just my call to say to all of us , public policy won 't change this at all ; private industry has to work to take things like this seriously .
the extreme might be in italy where , again , there 's kind of some type of control over what 's happening in the environment is very evident , even in the way that they sell and distribute periodicals .
i walk to work every day or ride my scooter , and i come down and park in this little spot .
and i came down one day , and all the bikes were red .
now , this is not going to impress you guys who photoshop , and can do stuff , but this was an actual moment when i got off my bike , and i looked and i thought , it 's as if all of my biker brethren had kind of gotten together and conspired to make a little statement .
and it reminded me that --
to keep in the present , to look out for these kinds of things .
it gave me possibilities for wonder --
if maybe it 's a yellow day in san francisco , and we could all agree , and create some installations .
but it also reminded me of the power of pattern and repetition to make an effect in our mind .
and i don 't know if there 's a stronger kind of effect than pattern and the way it unites kind of disparate elements .
i was at the art show in miami in december , and spent a couple of hours looking at fine art , and amazed at the prices of art and how expensive it is , but having a great time looking at it .
and i came outside , and the valets for this car service had created , you know , quite a nice little collage of these car keys , and my closest equivalent were a group of prayer tags that i had seen in tokyo .
and i thought that if pattern can unite these disparate elements , it can do just about anything .
i don 't have very many shots of people , because they kind of get in the way of studying pure form .
i was in a small restaurant in spain , having lunch --
one of those nice days where you had the place kind of to yourself , and you have a glass of wine , and enjoying the local area and the culture and the food and the quiet , and feeling very lucky , and a bus load of tourists arrived , emptied out , filled up the restaurant .
in a very short period of time , completely changed the atmosphere and character with loud voices and large bodies and such , and we had to get up and leave ; it was just that uncomfortable .
and at that moment , the sun came out , and through this perforated screen , a pattern was cast over these bodies and they kind of faded into the rear , and we left the restaurant kind of feeling o.k. about stuff .
and i do think pattern has the capability of eradicating some of the most evil forces of society , such as bad form in restaurants , but quite seriously , it was a statement to me that one thing that you do , sort of , see is the aggressive nature of the industrial world has produced --
kind of , large masses of things , and when you -- in monoculture , and i think the preservation of diversity in culture is something that 's important to us .
the last shots that i have deal with --
coming back to this theme of sidewalks , and i wanted to say something here about -- i 'm , kind of , optimistic , you know .
post-second world war , the influence of the automobile has really been devastating in a lot of our cities .
a lot of urban areas have been converted into parking lots in a sort of indiscriminate use .
a lot of the planning departments became subordinated to the transportation department . it 's as easy to rag on cars as it is on wal-mart ; i 'm not going to do that .
but they 're real examples in urbanization and the change that 's occurred in the last number of years , and the heightened sensitivity to the importance of our urban environments as cultural centers .
i think that they are , that the statements that we make in this public sector are our contributions to a larger whole .
cities are the place where we 're most likely to encounter diversity and to mix with other people .
we go there for stimulation in art and all those other things .
but i think people have recognized the sanctity of our urban areas .
a place like chicago has really reached kind of a level of international stature .
the u.s. is actually becoming a bit of a leader in kind of enlightened urban planning and renewal , and i want to single out a place like chicago , where i look at some guy like mayor daley as a bit of a design hero for being able to work through the political processes and all that to improve an area .
you would expect a city like this to have upgraded flower boxes on michigan avenue where wealthy people shop , but if you actually go along the street you find the flower boxes change from street to street : there 's actual diversity in the plants .
and the idea that a city group can maintain different types of foliage is really quite exceptional .
there are common elements of this that you 'll see throughout chicago , and then there are your big-d design statements : the pritzker pavilion done by frank gehry .
my measure of this as being an important bit of design is not so much the way that it looks , but the fact that it performs a very important social function .
there are a lot of free concerts , for example , that go on in this area ; it has a phenomenal acoustic system .
but the commitment that the city has made to the public area is significant , and almost an international model .
i work on the mayor 's council in san francisco , on the international design council for mayors , and chicago is looked at as the pinnacle , and i really would like to salute mayor daley and the folks there .
i thought that i should include at least one shot of technology for you guys .
this is also in millennium park in chicago , where the spanish artist-designer plensa has created , kind of , a digital readout in this park that reflects back the characters and personalities of the people in this area .
and it 's a welcoming area , i think , inclusive of diversity , reflective of diversity , and i think this marriage of both technology and art in the public sector is an area where the u.s. can really take a leadership role , and chicago is one example .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / niels _ diffrient _ rethinks _ the _ way _ we _ sit _ at _ work.html
design legend niels diffrient talks about his life in industrial design . he details his quest to completely rethink the office chair starting from one fundamental data set : the human body .
business , design , technology , work
520
niels diffrient rethinks the way we sit down
when i was five years old i fell in love with airplanes .
now i 'm talking about the ' 30s .
in the ' 30s an airplane had two wings and a round motor ,
and was always flown by a guy who looked like cary grant .
he had high leather boots , jodhpurs , an old leather jacket , a wonderful helmet and those marvelous goggles -- and , inevitably , a white scarf , to flow in the wind .
he 'd always walk up to his airplane in a kind of saunter , devil-may-care saunter , flick the cigarette away , grab the girl waiting here , give her a kiss .
and then mount his airplane , maybe for the last time .
of course i always wondered what would happen if he 'd kissed the airplane first .
but this was real romance to me .
everything about flying in those years , which was -- you have to stop and think for a moment -- was probably the most advanced technological thing going on at the time .
so as a youngster , i tried to get close to this by drawing airplanes , constantly drawing airplanes .
it 's the way i got a part of this romance .
and of course , in a way , when i say romance , i mean in part the aesthetics of that whole situation .
i think the word is the holistic experience revolving around a product .
the product was that airplane .
but it built a romance .
even the parts of the airplane had french names .
ze fuselage , ze empanage , ze nessal . you know , from a romance language .
so that it was something that just got into your spirit .
it did mine .
and i decided i had to get closer than just drawing fantasy airplanes .
i wanted to build airplanes .
so i built model airplanes .
and i found that in doing the model airplanes the appearance drawings were not enough .
you couldn 't transfer those to the model itself .
if you wanted it to fly you had to learn the discipline of flying .
you had to learn about aeronautics .
you had to learn what made an airplane stay in the air .
and of course , as a model in those years , you couldn 't control it .
so it had to be self-righting , and stay up without crashing .
so i had to give up the approach of drawing the fantasy shapes and convert it to technical drawings --
the shape of the wing , the shape of the fuselage and so on --
and build an airplane over these drawings that i knew followed some of the principles of flying .
and in so doing , i could produce a model that would fly , stay in the air .
and it had , once it was in the air , some of this romance that i was in love with .
well the act of drawing airplanes led me to , when i had the opportunity to choose a course in school , led me to sign up for aeronautical engineering .
and when i was sitting in classes -- in which no one asked me to draw an airplane -- to my surprise .
i had to learn mathematics and mechanics and all this sort of thing .
i 'd wile away my time drawing airplanes in the class .
one day a young man looked over my shoulder , he said , " you draw very well .
you should be in the art department . " and i said , " why ? "
and he said , " well for one thing , there are more girls there . "
so my romance was temporarily shifted .
and i went into art because they appreciated drawing .
studied painting ; didn 't do very well at that .
went through design , some architecture .
eventually hired myself out as a designer .
and for the following 25 years , living in italy , living in america , i doled out a piece of this romance to anybody who 'd pay for it --
this sense , this aesthetic feeling , for the experience revolving around a designed object .
and it exists .
any of you who rode the automobiles -- was it yesterday ? -- at the track , you know the romance revolving around those high performance cars .
well in 25 years i was mostly putting out pieces of this romance and not getting a lot back in because design on call doesn 't always connect you with a circumstance in which you can produce things of this nature .
so after 25 years i began to feel as though i was running dry .
and i quit .
and i started up a very small operation -- went from 40 people to one , in an effort to rediscover my innocence .
i wanted to get back where the romance was .
and i couldn 't choose airplanes because they had gotten sort of unromantic at that point ,
even though i 'd done a lot of airplane work , on the interiors .
so i chose furniture .
and i chose chairs specifically because i knew something about them .
i 'd designed a lot of chairs , over the years for tractors and trucks and submarines --
all kinds of things .
but not office chairs .
so i started doing that .
and i found that there were ways to duplicate the same approach that i used to use on the airplane .
only this time , instead of the product being shaped by the wind , it was shaped by the human body .
so the discipline was -- as in the airplane you learn a lot about how to deal with the air , for a chair you have to learn a lot about how to deal with the body ,
and what the body needs , wants , indicates it needs .
and that 's the way , ultimately after some ups and downs , i ended up designing the chair i 'm going to show you .
i should say one more thing . when i was doing those model airplanes , i did everything .
i conceived the kind of airplane .
i basically engineered it .
i built it .
and i flew it .
and that 's the way i work now .
when i started this chair it was not a preconceived notion .
design nowadays , if you mean it , you don 't start with styling sketches .
i started with a lot of loose ideas ,
roughly eight or nine years ago .
and the loose ideas had something to do with what i knew happened with people in the office ,
at the work place -- people who worked , and used task seating , a great many of them sitting in front of a computer all day long .
and i felt , the one thing they don 't need , is a chair that interferes with their main reason for sitting there .
so i took the approach that the chair should do as much for them as humanly possible or as mechanistically possible so that they didn 't have to fuss with it .
so my idea was that , instead of sitting down and reaching for a lot of controls , that you would sit on the chair , and it would automatically balance your weight against the force required to recline .
now that may not mean a lot to some of you .
but you know most good chairs do recline because it 's beneficial to open up this joint between your legs and your upper body for better breathing and better flow .
so that if you sit down on my chair , whether you 're five feet tall or six foot six , it always deals with your weight and transfers the amount of force required to recline in a way that you don 't have to look for something to adjust .
i 'll tell you right up front , this is a trade off .
there are drawbacks to this .
one is : you can 't accommodate everybody .
there are some very light people ,
some extremely heavy people ,
maybe people with a lot of bulk up top .
they begin to fall off the end of your chart .
but the compromise , i felt , was in my favor because most people don 't adjust their chairs .
they will sit in them forever .
i had somebody on the bus out to the racetrack tell me about his sister calling him .
he said she had one of the new , better chairs .
she said , " oh i love it . "
she said , " but it 's too high . "
so he said , " well i 'll come over and look at it . "
he came over and looked at it .
he reached down . he pulled a lever . and the chair sank down .
she said , " oh it 's wonderful . how did you do that ? "
and he showed her the lever .
well , that 's typical of a lot of us working in chairs .
and why should you get a 20-page manual about how to run a chair ?
i had one for a wristwatch once . 20 pages .
anyway , i felt that it was important that you didn 't have to make an adjustment in order to get this kind of action .
the other thing i felt was that armrests had never really been properly approached
from the standpoint of how much of an aid they could be to your work life .
but i felt it was too much to ask to have to adjust each individual armrest in order to get it where you wanted .
so i spent a long time .
i said i worked eight or nine years on it .
and each of these things went along sort of in parallel but incrementally were a problem of their own .
i worked a long time on figuring out how to move the arms over a much greater arc -- that is up and down -- and make them a lot easier , so that you didn 't have to use a button .
and so after many trials , many failures , we came up with a very simple arrangement in which we could just move one arm or the other .
and they go up easily .
and stop where you want .
you can put them down , essentially out of the way .
no arms at all .
or you can pull them up where you want them .
and this was another thing that i felt ,
while not nearly as romantic as cary grant , nevertheless begins to grab a little bit of aesthetic operation , aesthetic performance into a product .
the next area that was of interest to me was the fact that reclining was a very important factor .
and the more you can recline , in a way , the better it is .
the more the angle between here and here opens up -- and nowadays , with a screen in front of you , you don 't want to have your eye drop too far in the recline , so we keep it at more or less the same level -- but you transfer weight off your tailbones .
would everybody put their hand under their bottom and feel their tailbone ?
you feel that bone under there ?
just your own .
there 's two of them , one on either side .
all the weight of your upper torso -- your arms , your head -- goes right down through your back , your spine , into those bones when you sit .
and that 's a lot of load .
just relieving your arms with armrests takes 20 percent of that load off .
now that , if your spine is not held in a good position , will help bend your spine the wrong way , and so on .
so to unload that great weight -- if that indeed exists -- you can recline .
when you recline you take away a lot of that load off your bottom end , and transfer it to your back .
at the same time , as i say , you open up this joint .
and breathability is good .
but to do that , if you have any amount of recline , it gets to the point where you need a headrest because nearly always , automatically hold your head in a vertical position , see ?
as i recline , my head says more or less vertical .
well if you 're reclined a great deal , you have to use muscle force to hold your head there .
so that 's where a headrest comes in .
now headrest is a challenge because you want it to adjust enough so that it 'll fit , you know , a tall guy and a short girl .
so here we are .
i 've got five inches of adjustment here in order to get the headrest in the right place .
but then i knew from experience and looking around in offices where there were chairs with headrests that nobody would ever bother to reach back and turn a knob and adjust the headrest to put it in position .
and you need it in a different position when you 're upright , then when you 're reclined .
so i knew that had to be solved , and had to be automatic .
so if you watch this chair as i recline , the headrest comes up to meet my neck .
ideally you want to put the head support in the cranial area , right there .
so that part of it took a long time to work out .
and there is a variety of other things : the shape of the cushions ,
the gel we put . we stole the idea from bicycle seats , and put gel in the cushions and in the armrests to absorb point load -- distributes the loading so you don 't get hard spots .
you cant hit your elbow on bottom .
and i did want to demonstrate the fact that the chair can accommodate people .
while you 're sitting in it you can adjust it down for the five-footer , or you can adjust it for the six-foot-six guy --
all within the scope of a few simple adjustments .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / hadyn _ parry _ re _ engineering _ mosquitos _ to _ fight _ disease.html
in a single year , there are 200-300 million cases of malaria and 50-100 million cases of dengue fever worldwide . so : why haven 't we found a way to effectively kill mosquitos yet ? hadyn parry presents a fascinating solution : genetically engineering male mosquitos to make them sterile , and releasing the insects into the wild , to cut down on disease-carrying species .
animals , biotech , disease , global issues , insects , pandemic , science , technology
1641
hadyn parry : re-engineering mosquitos to fight disease
so i 'd like to start by focusing on the world 's most dangerous animal .
now , when you talk about dangerous animals , most people might think of lions or tigers or sharks .
but of course the most dangerous animal is the mosquito .
the mosquito has killed more humans than any other creature in human history .
in fact , probably adding them all together , the mosquito has killed more humans .
and the mosquito has killed more humans than wars and plague .
and you would think , would you not , that with all our science , with all our advances in society , with better towns , better civilizations , better sanitation , wealth , that we would get better at controlling mosquitos , and hence reduce this disease .
and that 's not really the case .
if it was the case , we wouldn 't have between 200 and 300 million cases of malaria every year , and we wouldn 't have a million and a half deaths from malaria , and we wouldn 't have a disease that was relatively unknown 50 years ago now suddenly turned into the largest mosquito-borne virus threat that we have , and that 's called dengue fever .
so 50 years ago , pretty much no one had heard of it , no one certainly in the european environment .
but dengue fever now , according to the world health organization , infects between 50 and 100 million people every year , so that 's equivalent to the whole of the population of the u.k. being infected every year .
other estimates put that number at roughly double that number of infections .
and dengue fever has grown in speed quite phenomenally .
in the last 50 years , the incidence of dengue has grown thirtyfold .
now let me tell you a little bit about what dengue fever is , for those who don 't know .
now let 's assume you go on holiday .
let 's assume you go to the caribbean , or you might go to mexico . you might go to latin america , asia , africa , anywhere in saudi arabia .
you might go to india , the far east .
it doesn 't really matter . it 's the same mosquito , and it 's the same disease . you 're at risk .
and let 's assume you 're bitten by a mosquito that 's carrying that virus .
well , you could develop flu-like symptoms .
they could be quite mild .
you could develop nausea , headache , and you could actually feel like your bones are breaking .
and that 's the nickname given to this disease .
it 's called breakbone fever , because that 's how you can feel .
now the odd thing is , is that once you 've been bitten by this mosquito , and you 've had this disease , your body develops antibodies , so if you 're bitten again with that strain , it doesn 't affect you .
but it 's not one virus , it 's four , and the same protection that gives you the antibodies and protects you from the same virus that you had before actually makes you much more susceptible to the other three .
so the next time you get dengue fever , if it 's a different strain , you 're more susceptible , you 're likely to get worse symptoms , and you 're more likely to get the more severe forms , hemorrhagic fever or shock syndrome .
so you don 't want dengue once , and you certainly don 't want it again .
so why is it spreading so fast ?
and the answer is this thing .
this is aedes aegypti .
now this is a mosquito that came , like its name suggests , out of north africa , and it 's spread round the world .
now , in fact , a single mosquito will only travel about 200 yards in its entire life . they don 't travel very far .
what they 're very good at doing is hitchhiking , particularly the eggs .
they will lay their eggs in clear water , any pool , any puddle , any birdbath , any flower pot , anywhere there 's clear water , they 'll lay their eggs , and if that clear water is near freight , it 's near a port , if it 's anywhere near transport , those eggs will then get transported around the world .
and that 's what 's happened . mankind has transported these eggs all the way around the world , and these insects have infested over 100 countries , and there 's now 2.5 billion people living in countries where this mosquito resides .
to give you just a couple of examples how fast this has happened , in the mid- ' 70s , brazil declared , " we have no aedes aegypti , " and currently they spend about a billion dollars now a year trying to get rid of it , trying to control it , just one species of mosquito .
two days ago , or yesterday , i can 't remember which , i saw a reuters report that said madeira had had their first cases of dengue , about 52 cases , with about 400 probable cases .
that 's two days ago .
interestingly , madeira first got the insect in 2005 , and here we are , a few years later , first cases of dengue .
so the one thing you 'll find is that where the mosquito goes , dengue will follow .
once you 've got the mosquito in your area , anyone coming into that area with dengue , mosquito will bite them , mosquito will bite somewhere else , somewhere else , somewhere else , and you 'll get an epidemic .
so we must be good at killing mosquitos .
i mean , that can 't be very difficult .
well , there 's two principle ways .
the first way is that you use larvicides .
you use chemicals . you put them into water where they breed .
now in an urban environment , that 's extraordinarily difficult .
you 've got to get your chemical into every puddle , every birdbath , every tree trunk .
it 's just not practical .
the second way you can do it is actually trying to kill the insects as they fly around .
this is a picture of fogging .
here what someone is doing is mixing up chemical in a smoke and basically spreading that through the environment .
you could do the same with a space spray .
this is really unpleasant stuff , and if it was any good , we wouldn 't have this massive increase in mosquitos and we wouldn 't have this massive increase in dengue fever .
so it 's not very effective , but it 's probably the best thing we 've got at the moment .
having said that , actually , your best form of protection and my best form of protection is a long-sleeve shirt and a little bit of deet to go with it .
so let 's start again . let 's design a product , right from the word go , and decide what we want .
well we clearly need something that is effective at reducing the mosquito population .
there 's no point in just killing the odd mosquito here and there .
we want something that gets that population right the way down so it can 't get the disease transmission .
clearly the product you 've got has got to be safe to humans . we are going to use it in and around humans .
it has to be safe .
we don 't want to have a lasting impact on the environment .
we don 't want to do anything that you can 't undo .
maybe a better product comes along in 20 , 30 years .
fine . we don 't want a lasting environmental impact .
we want something that 's relatively cheap , or cost-effective , because there 's an awful lot of countries involved , and some of them are emerging markets , some of them emerging countries , low-income .
and finally , you want something that 's species-specific .
you want to get rid of this mosquito that spreads dengue , but you don 't really want to get all the other insects .
some are quite beneficial . some are important to your ecosystem .
this one 's not . it 's invaded you .
but you don 't want to get all of the insects .
you just want to get this one .
and most of the time , you 'll find this insect lives in and around your home , so this -- whatever we do has got to get to that insect .
it 's got to get into people 's houses , into the bedrooms , into the kitchens .
now there are two features of mosquito biology that really help us in this project , and that is , firstly , males don 't bite .
it 's only the female mosquito that will actually bite you .
the male can 't bite you , won 't bite you , doesn 't have the mouth parts to bite you .
it 's just the female .
and the second is a phenomenon that males are very , very good at finding females .
if there 's a male mosquito that you release , and if there 's a female around , that male will find the female .
so basically , we 've used those two factors .
so here 's a typical situation , male meets female , lots of offspring .
a single female will lay about up to 100 eggs at a time , up to about 500 in her lifetime .
now if that male is carrying a gene which causes the death of the offspring , then the offspring don 't survive , and instead of having 500 mosquitos running around , you have none .
and if you can put more , i 'll call them sterile , that the offspring will actually die at different stages , but i 'll call them sterile for now .
if you put more sterile males out into the environment , then the females are more likely to find a sterile male than a fertile one , and you will bring that population down .
so the males will go out , they 'll look for females , they 'll mate . if they mate successfully , then no offspring .
if they don 't find a female , then they 'll die anyway .
they only live a few days .
and that 's exactly where we are .
so this is technology that was developed in oxford university a few years ago .
the company itself , oxitec , we 've been working for the last 10 years , very much on a sort of similar development pathway that you 'd get with a pharmaceutical company .
so about 10 years of internal evaluation , testing , to get this to a state where we think it 's actually ready .
and then we 've gone out into the big outdoors , always with local community consent , always with the necessary permits .
so we 've done field trials now in the cayman islands , a small one in malaysia , and two more now in brazil .
and what 's the result ?
well , the result has been very good .
in about four months of release , we 've brought that population of mosquitos - in most cases we 're dealing with villages here of about 2,000 , 3,000 people , that sort of size , starting small - we 've taken that mosquito population down by about 85 percent in about four months .
and in fact , the numbers after that get , those get very difficult to count , because there just aren 't any left .
so that 's been what we 've seen in cayman , it 's been what we 've seen in brazil in those trials .
and now what we 're doing is we 're going through a process to scale up to a town of about 50,000 , so we can see this work at big scale .
and we 've got a production unit in oxford , or just south of oxford , where we actually produce these mosquitos .
we can produce them , in a space a bit more than this red carpet , i can produce about 20 million a week .
we can transport them around the world .
it 's not very expensive , because it 's a coffee cup -- something the size of a coffee cup will hold about three million eggs .
so freight costs aren 't our biggest problem .
so we 've got that . you could call it a mosquito factory .
and for brazil , where we 've been doing some trials , the brazilian government themselves have now built their own mosquito factory , far bigger than ours , and we 'll use that for scaling up in brazil .
there you are . we 've sent mosquito eggs .
we 've separated the males from the females .
the males have been put in little pots and the truck is going down the road and they are releasing males as they go .
it 's actually a little bit more precise than that .
you want to release them so that you get good coverage of your area .
so you take a google map , you divide it up , work out how far they can fly , and make sure you 're releasing such that you get coverage of the area , and then you go back , and within a very short space of time , you 're bringing that population right the way down .
we 've also done this in agriculture .
we 've got several different species of agriculture coming along , and i 'm hoping that soon we 'll be able to get some funding together so we can get back and start looking at malaria .
so that 's where we stand at the moment , and i 've just got a few final thoughts , which is that this is another way in which biology is now coming in to supplement chemistry in some of our societal advances in this area , and these biological approaches are coming in in very different forms , and when you think about genetic engineering , we 've now got enzymes for industrial processing , enzymes , genetically engineered enzymes in food .
we have g.m. crops , we have pharmaceuticals , we have new vaccines , all using roughly the same technology , but with very different outcomes .
and i 'm in favor , actually . of course i am .
i 'm in favor of particularly where the older technologies don 't work well or have become unacceptable .
and although the techniques are similar , the outcomes are very , very different , and if you take our approach , for example , and you compare it to , say , g.m. crops , both techniques are trying to produce a massive benefit .
both have a side benefit , which is that we reduce pesticide use tremendously .
but whereas a g.m. crop is trying to protect the plant , for example , and give it an advantage , what we 're actually doing is taking the mosquito and giving it the biggest disadvantage it can possibly have , rendering it unable to reproduce effectively .
so for the mosquito , it 's a dead end .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / bill _ davenhall _ your _ health _ depends _ on _ where _ you _ live.html
where you live : it impacts your health as much as diet and genes do , but it 's not part of your medical records . at tedmed , bill davenhall shows how overlooked government geo-data can mesh with mobile gps apps to keep doctors in the loop . call it " geo-medicine . "
health , health care , medicine , technology
748
bill davenhall : your health depends on where you live
can geographic information make you healthy ?
in 2001 i got hit by a train .
my train was a heart attack .
i found myself in a hospital in an intensive-care ward , recuperating from emergency surgery .
and i suddenly realized something : that i was completely in the dark .
i started asking my questions , " well , why me ? "
" why now ? " " why here ? "
" could my doctor have warned me ? "
so , what i want to do here in the few minutes i have with you is really talk about what is the formula for life and good health .
genetics , lifestyle and environment .
that 's going to sort of contain our risks , and if we manage those risks we 're going to live a good life and a good healthy life .
well , i understand the genetics and lifestyle part .
and you know why i understand that ?
because my physicians constantly ask me questions about this .
have you ever had to fill out those long , legal-size forms in your doctor 's office ?
i mean , if you 're lucky enough you get to do it more than once , right ?
do it over and over again . and they ask you questions about your lifestyle and your family history , your medication history , your surgical history , your allergy history ... did i forget any history ?
but this part of the equation i didn 't really get ,
and i don 't think my physicians really get this part of the equation .
what does that mean , my environment ?
well , it can mean a lot of things .
this is my life . these are my life places .
we all have these .
while i 'm talking i 'd like you to also be thinking about : how many places have you lived ?
just think about that , you know , wander through your life thinking about this .
and you realize that you spend it in a variety of different places .
you spend it at rest and you spend it at work .
and if you 're like me , you 're in an airplane a good portion of your time traveling some place .
so , it 's not really simple when somebody asks you , " where do you live , where do you work , and where do you spend all your time ?
and where do you expose yourselves to risks that maybe perhaps you don 't even see ? "
well , when i have done this on myself , i always come to the conclusion that i spend about 75 percent of my time relatively in a small number of places .
and i don 't wander far from that place for a majority of my time , even though i 'm an extensive global trekker .
now , i 'm going to take you on a little journey here .
i started off in scranton , pennsylvania .
i don 't know if anybody might hail from northeastern pennsylvania , but this is where i spent my first 19 years with my little young lungs .
you know , breathing high concentrations here of sulfur dioxide , carbon dioxide and methane gas , in unequal quantities -- 19 years of this .
and if you 've been in that part of the country , this is what those piles of burning , smoldering coal waste look like .
so then i decided to leave that part of the world ,
and i was going to go to the mid-west .
ok , so i ended up in louisville , kentucky .
well , i decided to be neighbors to a place called rubbertown .
they manufacture plastics . they use large quantities chloroprene and benzene .
okay , i spent 25 years , in my middle-age lungs now , breathing various concentrations of that .
and on a clear day it always looked like this , so you never saw it .
it was insidious and it was really happening .
then i decided i had to get really smart , i would take this job in the west coast .
and i moved to redlands california .
very nice , and there my older , senior lungs , as i like to call them , i filled with particulate matter , carbon dioxide and very high doses of ozone .
okay ? almost like the highest in the nation .
alright , this is what it looks like on a good day .
if you 've been there , you know what i 'm talking about .
so , what 's wrong with this picture ?
well , the picture is , there is a huge gap here .
the one thing that never happens in my doctor 's office : they never ask me about my place history .
no doctor , can i remember , ever asking me , " where have you lived ? "
they haven 't asked me what kind of the quality of the drinking water that i put in my mouth or the food that i ingest into my stomach .
they really don 't do that . it 's missing .
look at the kind of data that 's available .
this data 's from all over the world -- countries spend billions of dollars investing in this kind of research .
now , i 've circled the places where i 've been .
well , by design , if i wanted to have a heart attack i 'd been in the right places . right ?
so , how many people are in the white ?
how many people in the room have spent the majority of their life in the white space ?
anybody ? boy you 're lucky .
how many have spent it in the red places ?
oh , not so lucky .
there are thousands of these kinds of maps that are displayed in atlases all over the world .
they give us some sense of what 's going to be our train wreck .
but none of that 's in my medical record .
and it 's not in yours either .
so , here 's my friend paul .
he 's a colleague . he allowed his cell phone to be tracked every two hours , 24 / 7 , 365 days out of the year for the last two years , everywhere he went .
and you can see he 's been to a few places around the united states .
and this is where he has spent most of his time .
if you really studied that you might have some clues as to what paul likes to do .
anybody got any clues ? ski . right .
we can zoom in here , and we suddenly see that now we see where paul has really spent a majority of his time .
and all of those black dots are all of the toxic release inventories that are monitored by the epa .
did you know that data existed ?
for every community in the united states , you could have your own personalized map of that .
so , our cell phones can now build a place history .
this is how paul did it . he did it with his iphone .
this might be what we end up with .
this is what the physician would have in front of him and her when we enter that exam room instead of just the pink slip that said i paid at the counter . right ?
this could be my little assessment .
and he looks at that and he says , " whoa bill , i suggest that maybe you not decide , just because you 're out here in beautiful california , and it 's warm every day , that you get out and run at six o 'clock at night .
i 'd suggest that that 's a bad idea bill , because of this report . "
what i 'd like to leave you for are two prescriptions .
okay , number one is , we must teach physicians about the value of geographical information .
it 's called geomedicine . there are about a half a dozen programs in the world right now that are focused on this .
and they 're in the early stages of development .
these programs need to be supported ,
and we need to teach our future doctors of the world the importance of some of the information i 've shared here with you today .
the second thing we need to do is while we 're spending billions and billions of dollars all over the world building an electronic health record , we make sure we put a place history inside that medical record .
it not only will be important for the physician ; it will be important for the researchers that now will have huge samples to draw upon .
but it will also be useful for us .
i could have made the decision , if i had this information , not to move to the ozone capital of the united states , couldn 't i ? i could make that decision .
or i could negotiate with my employer to make that decision in the best interest of myself and my company .
with that , i would like to just say that jack lord said this almost 10 years ago .
just look at that for a minute .
that was what the conclusion of the dartmouth atlas of healthcare was about , was saying that we can explain the geographic variations that occur in disease , in illness , in wellness , and how our healthcare system actually operates .
that was what he was talking about on that quote .
and i would say he got it right almost a decade ago .
so , i 'd very much like to see us begin to really seize this as an opportunity to get this into our medical records .
so with that , i 'll leave you that in my particular view of view of health : geography always matters .
and i believe that geographic information can make both you and me very healthy . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / rives _ controls _ the _ internet.html
how many poets could cram ebay , friendster and monster.com into 3-minute poem worthy of a standing ovation ? enjoy rives ' unique talent .
arts , culture , death , entertainment , love , parenting , performance , philosophy , poetry , short talk , spoken word , technology , web
26
rives controls the internet
i wrote this poem after hearing a pretty well known actress tell a very well known interviewer on television , " i 'm really getting into the internet lately . i just wish it were more organized . " so ...
if i controlled the internet , you could auction your broken heart on ebay . take the money ; go to amazon ; buy a phonebook for a country you 've never been to -- call folks at random until you find someone who flirts really well in a foreign language .
if i were in charge of the internet , you could mapquest your lover 's mood swings . hang left at cranky , right at preoccupied , u-turn on silent treatment , all the way back to tongue kissing and good lovin ' . you could navigate and understand every emotional intersection .
some days , i 'm as shallow as a baking pan ,
but i still stretch miles in all directions .
if i owned the internet , napster , monster and friendster.com would be one big website . that way you could listen to cool music while you pretend to look for a job
and you 're really just chattin ' with your pals .
heck , if i ran the web , you could email dead people .
they would not email you back
--
but you 'd get an automated reply .
their name in your inbox
--
it 's all you wanted anyway .
and a message saying , " hey , it 's me . i miss you .
listen , you 'll see being dead is dandy . now you go back to raising kids and waging peace and craving candy . " if i designed the internet , childhood.com would be a loop of a boy in an orchard , with a ski pole for a sword , trashcan lid for a shield , shouting , " i am the emperor of oranges . i am the emperor of oranges . i am the emperor of oranges . " now follow me , ok ?
grandma.com would be a recipe for biscuits and spit-bath instructions .
one , two , three .
that links with hotdiggitydog.com .
that is my grandfather .
they take you to gruff-ex-cop-on-his-fourth-marriage.dad. he forms an attachment to kind-of-ditzy-but-still-sends-ginger-snaps-for-christmas.mom , who downloads the boy in the orchard , the emperor of oranges , who grows up to be me --
the guy who usually goes too far .
so if i were emperor of the internet , i guess i 'd still be mortal , huh ?
but at that point , i would probably already have the lowest possible mortgage and the most enlarged possible penis
--
so i would outlaw spam on my first day in office .
i wouldn 't need it .
i 'd be like some kind of internet genius , and me , i 'd like to upgrade to deity and maybe just like that -- pop ! -- i 'd go wireless .
huh ? maybe google would hire this .
i could zip through your servers and firewalls like a virus until the world wide web is as wise , as wild and as organized as i think a modern-day miracle / oracle can get , but , ooh-eee , you want to bet just how whack and un-pc your mac or pc is going to be when i 'm rocking
hot-shit-hot-shot-god.net ?
i guess it 's just like life .
it is not a question of if you can --
it 's : do ya ?
we can interfere with the interface .
we can make " you 've got hallelujah " the national anthem of cyberspace
every lucky time we log on .
you don 't say a prayer .
you don 't write a psalm .
you don 't chant an " om . "
you send one blessed email to whomever you 're thinking of at dah-da-la-dat-da-dah-da-la-dat.com .
thank you , ted .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / robert _ neuwirth _ the _ power _ of _ the _ informal _ economy.html
robert neuwirth spent four years among the chaotic stalls of street markets , talking to pushcart hawkers and gray marketers , to study the remarkable " system d , " the world 's unlicensed economic network . responsible for some 1.8 billion jobs , it 's an economy of underappreciated power and scope .
business , cities , community , economics , global issues , law
1555
robert neuwirth : the power of the informal economy
in system d , this is a store , and what i mean by that is that this is a photograph i took in makoko , shantytown in lagos , nigeria .
it 's built over the lagoon , and there are no streets where there can be stores to shop , and so the store comes to you .
and in the same community , this is business synergy .
this is the boat that that lady was paddling around in , and this artisan makes the boat and the paddles and sells directly to the people who need the boat and the paddles .
and this is a global business .
ogandiro smokes fish in makoko in lagos , and i asked her , " where does the fish come from ? "
and i thought she 'd say , " oh , you know , up the lagoon somewhere , or maybe across africa , "
but you 'll be happy to know she said it came from here , it comes from the north sea .
it 's caught here , frozen , shipped down to lagos , smoked , and sold for a tiny increment of profit on the streets of lagos .
and this is a business incubator .
this is olusosun dump , the largest garbage dump in lagos , and 2,000 people work here , and i found this out from this fellow , andrew saboru .
andrew spent 16 years scavenging materials on the dump , earned enough money to turn himself into a contract scaler , which meant he carried a scale and went around and weighed all the materials that people had scavenged from the dump . now he 's a scrap dealer .
that 's his little depot behind him , and he earns twice the nigerian minimum wage .
this is a shopping mall .
this is oshodi market in lagos .
jorge luis borges had a story called " the aleph , " and the aleph is a point in the world where absolutely everything exists , and for me , this image is a point in the world where absolutely everything exists .
so , what am i talking about when i talk about system d ?
it 's traditionally called the informal economy , the underground economy , the black market .
i don 't conceive of it that way .
i think it 's really important to understand that something like this is totally open . it 's right there for you to find .
all of this is happening openly , and aboveboard .
there 's nothing underground about it .
it 's our prejudgment that it 's underground .
i 've pirated the term system d from the former french colonies .
there 's a word in french that is debrouillardise , that means to be self-reliant , and the former french colonies have turned that into system d for the economy of self-reliance , or the diy economy .
but governments hate the diy economy , and that 's why -- i took this picture in 2007 , and this is the same market in 2009 -- and i think , when the organizers of this conference were talking about radical openness , they didn 't mean that the streets should be open and the people should be gone .
i think what we have is a pickle problem .
i had a friend who worked at a pickle factory ,
and the cucumbers would come flying down this conveyer belt , and his job was to pick off the ones that didn 't look so good and throw them in the bin labeled " relish " where they 'd be crushed and mixed with vinegar and used for other kinds of profit .
this is the pickle economy .
we 're all focusing on - this is a statistic from earlier this month in the financial times - we 're all focusing on the luxury economy .
it 's worth 1.5 trillion dollars every year , and that 's a vast amount of money , right ?
that 's three times the gross domestic product of switzerland .
so it 's vast . but it should come with an asterisk , and the asterisk is that it excludes two thirds of the workers of the world .
1.8 billion people around the world work in the economy that is unregulated and informal .
that 's a huge number , and what does that mean ?
well , it means if it were united in a single political system , one country , call it " the united street sellers republic , " the u.s.s.r. , or " bazaaristan , " it would be worth 10 trillion dollars every year , and that would make it the second largest economy in the world , after the united states .
and given that projections are that the bulk of economic growth over the next 15 years will come from emerging economies in the developing world , it could easily overtake the united states and become the largest economy in the world .
so the implications of that are vast , because it means that this is where employment is - 1.8 billion people - and this is where we can create a more egalitarian world , because people are actually able to earn money and live and thrive , as andrew saboru did .
big businesses have recognized this , and what 's fascinating about this slide , it 's not that the guys can carry boxes on their heads and run around without dropping them off. it 's that the gala sausage roll is a product that 's made by a global company called uac foods that 's active throughout africa and the middle east , but the gala sausage roll is not sold in stores .
uac foods has recognized that it won 't sell if it 's in stores . it 's only sold by a phalanx of street hawkers who run around the streets of lagos at bus stations and in traffic jams and sell it as a snack , and it 's been sold that way for 40 years .
it 's a business plan for a corporation .
and it 's not just in africa .
here 's mr. clean looking amorously at all the other procter & gamble products , and procter & gamble , you know , the statistic always cited is that wal-mart is their largest customer , and it 's true , as one store , wal-mart buys 15 percent , thus 15 percent of procter & gamble 's business is with wal-mart , but their largest market segment is something that they call " high frequency stores , " which is all these tiny kiosks and the lady in the canoe and all these other businesses that exist in system d , the informal economy , and procter & gamble makes 20 percent of its money from that market segment , and it 's the only market segment that 's growing .
so procter & gamble says , " we don 't care whether a store is incorporated or registered or anything like that .
we want our products in that store . "
and then there 's mobile phones .
this is an ad for mtn , which is a south african multinational active in about 25 countries , and when they came into nigeria - nigeria is the big dog in africa .
one in seven africans is a nigerian , and so everyone wants in to the mobile phone market
in nigeria . and when mtn came in , they wanted to sell the mobile service like i get in the united states or like people get here in the u.k. or in europe -- expensive monthly plans , you get a phone , you pay overages , you 're killed with fees -- and their plan crashed and burned .
and they went back to the drawing board , and they retooled , and they came up with another plan : we don 't sell you the phone , we don 't sell you the monthly plan .
we only sell you airtime .
and where 's the airtime sold ?
it 's sold at umbrella stands all over the streets , where people are unregistered , unlicensed , but mtn makes most of its profits , perhaps 90 percent of its profits , from selling through system d , the informal economy .
and where do the phones come from ?
well , they come from here . this is in guangzhou , china , and if you go upstairs in this rather sleepy looking electronics mall , you find the guangzhou dashatou second-hand trade center ,
and if you go in there , you follow the guys with the muscles who are carrying the boxes , and where are they going ?
they 're going to eddy in lagos .
now , most of the phones there are not second-hand at all .
the name is a misnomer .
most of them are pirated . they have the name brand on them , but they 're not manufactured by the name brand .
now , are there downsides to that ?
well , i guess . you know , china has no - - no intellectual property , right ?
versace without the vowels .
zhuomani instead of armani .
s. guuuci , and -- all around the world this is how products are being distributed , so , for instance , in one street market on rua 25 de marco in sao paulo , brazil , you can buy fake designer glasses .
you can buy cloned cologne .
you can buy pirated dvds , of course .
you can buy new york yankees caps in all sorts of unauthorized patterns .
you can buy cuecas baratas , designer underwear that isn 't really manufactured by a designer , and even pirated evangelical mixtapes .
now , businesses tend to complain about this , and their , they , i don 't want to take away from their entire validity of complaining about it , but i did ask a major sneaker manufacturer earlier this year what they thought about piracy ,
and they told me , " well , you can 't quote me on this , because if you quote me on this , i have to kill you , " but they use piracy as market research .
the sneaker manufacturer told me that if they find that pumas are being pirated , or adidas are being pirated and their sneakers aren 't being pirated , they know they 've done something wrong .
so it 's very important to them to track piracy exactly because of this , and the people who are buying , the pirates , are not their customers anyway , because their customers want the real deal .
now , there 's another problem .
this is a real street sign in lagos , nigeria .
all of system d really doesn 't pay taxes , right ?
and when i think about that , first of all i think that government is a social contract between the people and the government , and if the government isn 't transparent , then the people aren 't going to be transparent either ,
but also that we 're blaming the little guy who doesn 't pay his taxes , and we 're not recognizing that everyone 's fudging things all over the world , including some extremely respected businesses , and i 'll give you one example .
there was one company that paid 4,000 bribes in the first decade of this millennium , and a million dollars in bribes every business day , right ?
all over the world . and that company was the big german electronics giant siemens .
so this goes on in the formal economy as well as the informal economy , so it 's wrong of us to blame - and i 'm not singling out siemens , i 'm saying everyone does it . okay ?
i just want to end by saying that if adam smith had framed out a theory of the flea market instead of the free market , what would be sum of the principles ?
first , it would be to understand that it could be considered a cooperative , and this is a thought from the brazilian legal scholar roberto mangabeira unger .
cooperative development is a way forward .
secondly , from the [ austrian ] anarchist philosopher paul feyerabend , facts are relative , and what is a massive right of self-reliance to a nigerian businessperson is considered unauthorized and horrible to other people , and we have to recognize that there are differences in how people define things and what their facts are .
and third is , and i 'm taking this from the great american beat poet allen ginsberg , that alternate economies barter and different kinds of currency , alternate currencies are also very important , and he talked about buying what he needed just with his good looks .
and so i just want to leave you there , and say that this economy is a tremendous force for global development and we need to think about it that way .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / greg _ lynn _ on _ organic _ design.html
greg lynn talks about the mathematical roots of architecture -- and how calculus and digital tools allow modern designers to move beyond the traditional building forms . a glorious church in queens illustrate his theory .
design
430
greg lynn on calculus in architecture
what i thought i would talk about today is the transition from one mode of thinking about nature to another that 's tracked by architecture .
what 's interesting about architects is , we always have tried to justify beauty by looking to nature , and arguably , beautiful architecture has always been looking at a model of nature .
so , for roughly 300 years , the hot debate in architecture was whether the number five or the number seven was a better proportion to think about architecture , because the nose was one-fifth of your head , or because your head was one-seventh of your body .
and the reason that that was the model of beauty and of nature was because the decimal point had not been invented yet -- it wasn 't the 16th century -- and everybody had to dimension a building in terms of fractions , so a room would be dimensioned as one-fourth of a facade ; the structural dais of that might be dimensioned as 10 units , and you would get down to the small elements by fractional subdivision : finer and finer and finer .
in the 15th century , the decimal point was invented ; architects stopped using fractions , and they had a new model of nature .
so , what 's going on today is that there 's a model of natural form which is calculus-based and which is using digital tools , and that has a lot of implications to the way we think about beauty and form , and it has a lot of implications in the way we think about nature .
the best example of this would probably be the gothic , and the gothic was invented after the invention of calculus , although the gothic architects weren 't really using calculus to define their forms .
but what was important is , the gothic moment in architecture was the first time that force and motion was thought of in terms of form .
so , examples like christopher wren 's king 's cross : you can see that the structural forces of the vaulting get articulated as lines , so you 're really actually seeing the expression of structural force and form .
much later , robert maillart 's bridges , which optimize structural form with a calculus curvature almost like a parabola .
the hanging chain models of antonio gaudi , the catalan architect .
the end of the 19th century , beginning of the 20th century , and how that hanging chain model translates into archways and vaulting .
so , in all of these examples , structure is the determining force .
frei otto was starting to use foam bubble diagrams and foam bubble models to generate his mannheim concert hall .
interestingly , in the last 10 years norman foster used a similar heat thermal transfer model to generate the roof of the national gallery , with the structural engineer chris williams .
in all these examples , there 's one ideal form , because these are thought in terms of structure .
and as an architect , i 've always found these kinds of systems very limiting , because i 'm not interested in ideal forms and i 'm not interested in optimizing to some perfect moment .
so , what i thought i would bring up is another component that needs to be thought of , whenever you think about nature , and that 's basically the invention of generic form in genetic evolution .
my hero is actually not darwin ; it 's a guy named william bateson , father of greg bateson , who was here for a long time in monterey .
and he was what you 'd call a teratologist : he looked at all of the monstrosities and mutations to find rules and laws , rather than looking at the norms .
so , instead of trying to find the ideal type or the ideal average , he 'd always look for the exception . so , in this example , which is an example of what 's called bateson 's rule , he has two kinds of mutations of a human thumb .
when i first saw this image , 10 years ago , i actually found it very strange and beautiful at the same time .
beautiful , because it has symmetry .
so , what he found is that in all cases of thumb mutations , instead of having a thumb , you would either get another opposable thumb , or you would get four fingers . so , the mutations reverted to symmetry .
and bateson invented the concept of symmetry breaking , which is that wherever you lose information in a system , you revert back to symmetry .
so , symmetry wasn 't the sign of order and organization -- which is what i was always understanding , and as is an architect -- symmetry was the absence of information .
so , whenever you lost information , you 'd move to symmetry ; whenever you added information to a system , you would break symmetry .
so , this whole idea of natural form shifted at that moment from looking for ideal shapes to looking for a combination of information and generic form .
you know , literally after seeing that image , and finding out what bateson was working with , we started to use these rules for symmetry breaking and branching to start to think about architectural form .
to just talk for a minute about the digital mediums that we 're using now and how they integrate calculus : the fact that they 're calculus-based means that we don 't have to think about dimension in terms of ideal units or discreet elements .
so , in architecture we deal with big assemblies of components , so there might be up to , say , 50,000 pieces of material in this room you 're sitting in right now that all need to get organized .
now , typically you 'd think that they would all be the same : like , the chairs you 're sitting in would all be the same dimension .
you know , i haven 't verified this , but it 's the norm that every chair would be a slightly different dimension , because you 'd want to space them all out for everybody 's sight lines .
the elements that make up the ceiling grid and the lighting , they 're all losing their modular quality , and moving more and more to these infinitesimal dimensions .
that 's because we 're all using calculus tools for manufacturing and for design .
calculus is also a mathematics of curves . so , even a straight line , defined with calculus , is a curve .
it 's just a curve without inflection .
so , a new vocabulary of form is now pervading all design fields : whether it 's automobiles , architecture , products , etc . , it 's really being affected by this digital medium of curvature .
the intricacies of scale that come out of that -- you know , in the example of the nose to the face , there 's a fractional part-to-whole idea .
with calculus , the whole idea of subdivision is more complex , because the whole and the parts are one continuous series .
it 's too early in the morning for a lecture on calculus , so i brought some images to just describe how that works .
this is a korean church that we did in queens .
and in this example , you can see that the components of this stair are repetitive , but they 're repetitive without being modular .
each one of the elements in this structure is a unique distance and dimension , and all of the connections are unique angles .
now , the only way we could design that , or possibly construct it , is by using a calculus-based definition of the form .
it also is much more dynamic , so that you can see that the same form opens and closes in a very dynamic way as you move across it , because it has this quality of vector in motion built into it .
so the same space that appears to be a kind of closed volume , when seen from the other side becomes a kind of open vista .
and you also get a sense of visual movement in the space , because every one of the elements is changing in a pattern , so that pattern leads your eye towards the altar .
i think that 's one of the main changes , also , in architecture : that we 're starting to look now not for some ideal form , like a latin cross for a church , but actually all the traits of a church : so , light that comes from behind from an invisible source , directionality that focuses you towards an altar .
it turns out it 's not rocket science to design a sacred space .
you just need to incorporate a certain number of traits in a very kind of genetic way .
so , these are the different perspectives of that interior , which has a very complex set of orientations all in a simple form .
in terms of construction and manufacturing , this is a kilometer-long housing block that was built in the ' 70s in amsterdam .
and here we 've broken the 500 apartments up into small neighborhoods , and differentiated those neighborhoods .
i won 't go into too much description of any of these projects , but what you can see is that the escalators and elevators that circulate people along the face of the building are all held up by 122 structural trusses .
because we 're using escalators to move people , all of these trusses are picking up diagonal loads .
so , every one of them is a little bit different-shaped as you move down the length of the building .
so , working with bentley and microstation , we 've written a custom piece of software that networks all of the components together into these chunks of information , so that if we change any element along the length of the building , not only does that change distribute through each one of the trusses , but each one of the trusses then distributes that information down the length of the entire facade of the building . so it 's a single calculation for every single component of the building that we 're adding onto .
so , it 's tens of millions of calculations just to design one connection between a piece of structural steel and another piece of structural steel .
but what it gives us is a harmonic and synthesized relationship of all these components , one to another .
this idea has , kind of , brought me into doing some product design , and it 's because design firms that have connections to architects , like , i 'm working with vitra , which is a furniture company , and alessi , which is a houseware company .
they saw this actually solving a problem : this ability to differentiate components but keep them synthetic .
so , not to pick on bmw , or to celebrate them , but take bmw as an example .
they have to , in 2005 , have a distinct identity for all their models of cars .
so , the 300 series , or whatever their newest car is , the 100 series that 's coming out , has to look like the 700 series , at the other end of their product line , so they need a distinct , coherent identity , which is bmw .
at the same time , there 's a person paying 30,000 dollars for a 300-series car , and a person paying 70,000 dollars for a 700 series , and that person paying more than double doesn 't want their car to look too much like the bottom-of-the-market car .
so they have to also discriminate between these products .
so , as manufacturing starts to allow more design options , this problem gets exacerbated , of the whole and the parts .
now , as an architect , part-to-whole relationships is all i think about , but in terms of product design it 's becoming more and more of an issue for companies .
so , the first kind of test product we did was with alessi , which was for a coffee and tea set .
it 's an incredibly expensive coffee and tea set ; we knew that at the beginning . so , i actually went to some people i knew down south in san diego , and we used an exploded titanium forming method that 's used in the aerospace industry .
basically what we can do , is just cut a graphite mold , put it in an oven , heat it to 1,000 degrees , gently inflate titanium that 's soft , and then explode it at the last minute into this form .
but what 's great about it is , the forms are only a few hundred dollars .
the titanium 's several thousand dollars , but the forms are very cheap .
so , we designed a system here of eight curves that could be swapped , very similar to that housing project i showed you , and we could recombine those together , so that we always had ergonomic shapes that always had the same volume and could always be produced in the same way .
that way , each one of these tools we could pay for with a few hundred dollars , and get incredible variation in the components .
and this is one of those examples of the sets .
so , for me , what was important is that this coffee set -- which is just a coffee pot , a teapot , and those are the pots sitting on a tray -- that they would have a coherence -- so , they would be greg lynn alessi coffee pots -- but that everyone who bought one would have a one-of-a-kind object that was unique in some way .
to go back to architecture , what 's organic about architecture as a field , unlike product design , is this whole issue of holism and of monumentality is really our realm . like , we have to design things which are coherent as a single object , but also break down into small rooms and have an identity of both the big scale and the small scale .
architects tend to work with signature , so that an architect needs a signature and that signature has to work across the scale of houses up to , say , skyscrapers , and that problem of signatures is a thing we 're very good at maintaining and working with ; and intricacy , which is the relationship of , say , the shape of a building , its structure , its windows , its color , its pattern . these are real architectural problems .
so , my kind of hero for this in the natural world are these tropical frogs .
i got interested in them because they 're the most extreme example of a surface where the texture and the -- let 's call it the decoration -- i know the frog doesn 't think of it as decoration , but that 's how it works -- are all intricately connected to one another .
so a change in the form indicates a change in the color pattern .
so , the pattern and the form aren 't the same thing , but they really work together and are fused in some way .
so , when doing a center for the national parks in costa rica , we tried to use that idea of a gradient color and a change in texture as the structure moves across the surface of the building .
we also used a continuity of change from a main exhibition hall to a natural history museum , so it 's all one continuous change in the massing , but within that massing are very different kinds of spaces and forms .
in a housing project in valencia , spain , we 're doing , the different towers of housing fused together in shared curves so you get a single mass , like a kind of monolith , but it breaks down into individual elements .
and you can see that that change in massing also gives all 48 of the apartments a unique shape and size , but always within a , kind of , controlled limit , an envelope of change .
i work with a group of other architects .
we have a company called united architects .
we were one of the finalists for the world trade center site design .
and i think this just shows how we were approaching the problem of incredibly large-scale construction .
we wanted to make a kind of gothic cathedral around the footprints of the world trade center site .
and to do that , we tried to connect up the five towers into a single system .
and we looked at , from the 1950s on , there were numerous examples of other architects trying to do the same thing .
we really approached it at the level of the typology of the building , where we could build these five separate towers , but they would all join at the 60th floor and make a kind of single monolithic mass .
with united architects , also , we made a proposal for the european central bank headquarters that used the same system , but this time in a much more monolithic mass , like a sphere .
but again , you can see this , kind of , organic fusion of multiple building elements to make a thing which is whole , but breaks down into smaller parts , but in an incredibly organic way .
finally , i 'd like to just show you some of the effects of using digital fabrication .
about six years ago , i bought one of these cnc mills , to just replace , kind of , young people cutting their fingers off all the time building models .
and i also bought a laser cutter and started to fabricate within my own shop , kind of , large-scale building elements and models , where we could go directly to the tooling .
what i found out is that the tooling , if you intervened in the software , actually produced decorative effects .
so , for these interiors , like this shop in stockholm , sweden , or this installation wall in the netherlands at the netherlands architecture institute , we could use the texture that the tool would leave to produce a lot of the spatial effects , and we could integrate the texture of the wall with the form of the wall with the material .
so , in vacuum-formed plastic , in fiberglass , and then even at the level of structural steel , which you think of as being linear and modular .
the steel industry is so far ahead of the design industry that if you take advantage of it you can even start to think of beams and columns all rolled together into a single system which is highly efficient , but also produces decorative effects and formal effects that are very beautiful and organic .
thanks very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / paul _ ewald _ asks _ can _ we _ domesticate _ germs.html
evolutionary biologist paul ewald drags us into the sewer to discuss germs . why are some more harmful than others ? how could we make the harmful ones benign ? searching for answers , he examines a disgusting , fascinating case : diarrhea .
biology , disease , evolution , global issues , health , health care , illness , medicine , microbiology , science , technology , virus , water
259
paul ewald asks , can we domesticate germs ?
what i 'd like to do is just drag us all down into the gutter , and actually all the way down into the sewer because i want to talk about diarrhea .
and in particular , i want to talk about the design of diarrhea .
and when evolutionary biologists talk about design , they really mean design by natural selection .
and that brings me to the title of the talk , " using evolution to design disease organisms intelligently . "
and i also have a little bit of a sort of smartass subtitle to this .
but i 'm not just doing this to be cute .
i really think that this subtitle explains what somebody like me , who 's sort of a darwin wannabe , how they actually look at one 's role in sort of coming into this field of health sciences and medicine .
it 's really not a very friendly field for evolutionary biologists .
you actually see a great potential , but you see a lot of people who are sort of defending their turf , and may actually be very resistant , when one tries to introduce ideas .
so , all of the talk today is going to deal with two general questions .
one is that , why are some disease organisms more harmful ? and a very closely related question , which is , how can we take control of this situation once we understand the answer to the first question ?
how can we make the harmful organisms more mild ?
and i 'm going to be talking , to begin with , as i said , about diarrheal disease organisms .
and the focus when i 'm talking about the diarrheal organisms , as well as the focus when i 'm talking about any organisms that cause acute infectious disease , is to think about the problem from a germ 's point of view ,
germ 's-eye view .
and in particular , to think about a fundamental idea which i think makes sense out of a tremendous amount of variation in the harmfulness of disease organisms .
and that idea is that from the germ 's-eye point of view , disease organisms have to get from one host to another , and often they have to rely on the well-being of the host to move them to another host .
but not always .
sometimes , you get disease organisms that don 't rely on host mobility at all for transmission .
and when you have that , then evolutionary theory tells us that natural selection will favor the more exploitative , more predator-like organisms .
so , natural selection will favor organisms that are more likely to cause damage .
if instead transmission to another host requires host mobility , then we expect that the winners of the competition will be the milder organisms .
so , if the pathogen doesn 't need the host to be healthy and active , and actual selection favors pathogens that take advantage of those hosts , the winners in the competition are those that exploit the hosts for their own reproductive success .
but if the host needs to be mobile in order to transmit the pathogen , then it 's the benign ones that tend to be the winners .
so , i 'm going to begin by applying this idea to diarrheal diseases .
diarrheal disease organisms get transmitted in basically three ways .
they can be transmitted from person-to-person contact , person-to-food-then-to-person contact , when somebody eats contaminated food ,
or they can be transmitted through the water .
and when they 're transmitted through the water , unlike the first two modes of transmission , these pathogens don 't rely on a healthy host for transmission .
a person can be sick in bed and still infect tens , even hundreds of other individuals .
to sort of illustrate that , this diagram emphasizes that if you 've got a sick person in bed , somebody 's going to be taking out the contaminated materials .
they 're going to wash those contaminated materials , and then the water may move into sources of drinking water .
people will come in to those places where you 've got contaminated drinking water , bring things back to the family , may drink right at that point .
the whole point is that a person who can 't move can still infect many other individuals .
and so , the theory tells us that when diarrheal disease organisms are transported by water , we expect them to be more predator-like , more harmful .
and you can test these ideas .
so , one way you can test is just look at all diarrheal bacteria , and see whether or not the ones that tend to be more transmitted by water , tend to be more harmful .
and the answer is -- yep , they are .
now i put those names in there just for the bacteria buffs , but the main point here is that -- there 's a lot of them here , i can tell -- the main point here is that those data points all show a very strong , positive association between the degree to which a disease organism is transmitted by water , and how harmful they are , how much death they cause per untreated infection .
so this suggests we 're on the right track .
but this , to me , suggests that we really need to ask some additional questions .
remember the second question that i raised at the outset was , how can we use this knowledge to make disease organisms evolve to be mild ?
now , this suggests that if you could just block waterborne transmission , you could cause disease organisms to shift from the right-hand side of that graph to the left-hand side of the graph .
but it doesn 't tell you how long .
i mean , if this would require thousands of years , then it 's worthless in terms of controlling of these pathogens .
but if it could occur in just a few years , then it might be a very important way to control some of the nasty problems that we haven 't been able to control .
in other words , this suggests that we could domesticate these organisms .
we could make them evolve to be not so harmful to us .
and so , as i was thinking about this , i focused on this organism , which is the el tor biotype of the organism called vibrio cholerae .
and that is the species of organism that is responsible for causing cholera .
and the reason i thought this is a really great organism to look at is that we understand why it 's so harmful .
it 's harmful because it produces a toxin ,
and that toxin is released when the organism gets into our intestinal tract .
it causes fluid to flow from the cells that line our intestine into the lumen , the internal chamber of our intestine , and then that fluid goes the only way it can , which is out the other end .
and it flushes out thousands of different other competitors that would otherwise make life difficult for the vibrios .
so what happens , if you 've got an organism , it produces a lot of toxin . after a few days of infection you end up having -- the fecal material really isn 't so disgusting as we might imagine .
it 's sort of cloudy water .
and if you took a drop of that water , you might find a million diarrheal organisms .
if the organism produced a lot of toxin , you might find 10 million , or 100 million .
if it didn 't produce a lot of this toxin , then you might find a smaller number .
so the task is to try to figure out how to determine whether or not you could get an organism like this to evolve towards mildness by blocking waterborne transmission , thereby allowing the organism only to be transmitted by person-to-person contact , or person-food-person contact --
both of which would really require that people be mobile and fairly healthy for transmission .
now , i can think of some possible experiments .
one would be to take a lot of different strains of this organism -- some that produce a lot of toxins , some that produce a little -- and take those strains and spew them out in different countries .
some countries that might have clean water supplies , so that you can 't get waterborne transmission : you expect the organism to evolve to mildness there .
other countries , in which you 've got a lot of waterborne transmission , there you expect these organisms to evolve towards a high level of harmfulness , right ?
there 's a little ethical problem in this experiment .
i was hoping to hear a few gasps at least .
that makes me worry a little bit .
but anyhow , the laughter makes me feel a little bit better .
and this ethical problem 's a big problem .
just to emphasize this , this is what we 're really talking about .
here 's a girl who 's almost dead .
she got rehydration therapy , she perked up , within a few days she was looking like a completely different person .
so , we don 't want to run an experiment like that .
but interestingly , just that thing happened in 1991 .
in 1991 , this cholera organism got into lima , peru , and within two months it had spread to the neighboring areas .
now , i don 't know how that happened , and i didn 't have anything to do with it , i promise you .
i don 't think anybody knows , but i 'm not averse to , once that 's happened , to see whether or not the prediction that we would make , that i did make before , actually holds up .
did the organism evolve to mildness in a place like chile , which has some of the most well protected water supplies in latin america ?
and did it evolve to be more harmful in a place like ecuador , which has some of the least well protected ?
and peru 's got something sort of in between .
and so , with funding from the bosack-kruger foundation , i got a lot of strains from these different countries and we measured their toxin production in the lab .
and we found that in chile -- within two months of the invasion of peru you had strains entering chile --
and when you look at those strains , in the very far left-hand side of this graph , you see a lot of variation in the toxin production .
each dot corresponds to an islet from a different person --
a lot of variation on which natural selection can act .
but the interesting point is , if you look over the 1990s , within a few years the organisms evolved to be more mild .
they evolved to produce less toxin . and to just give you a sense of how important this might be , if we look in 1995 , we find that there 's only one case of cholera , on average , reported from chile every two years .
so , it 's controlled .
that 's how much we have in america , cholera that 's acquired endemically ,
and we don 't think we 've got a problem here .
they didn 't -- they solved the problem in chile .
but , before we get too confident , we 'd better look at some of those other countries , and make sure that this organism doesn 't just always evolve toward mildness .
well , in peru it didn 't .
and in ecuador -- remember , this is the place where it has the highest potential waterborne transmission -- it looked like it got more harmful .
in every case there 's a lot of variation , but something about the environment the people are living in , and i think the only realistic explanation is that it 's the degree of waterborne transmission , favored the harmful strains in one place , and mild strains in another .
so , this is very encouraging , it suggests that something that we might want to do anyhow , if we had enough money , could actually give us a much bigger bang for the buck .
it would make these organisms evolve to mildness , so that even though people might be getting infected , they 'd be infected with mild strains .
it wouldn 't be causing severe disease .
but there 's another really interesting aspect of this , and this is that if you could control the evolution of virulence , evolution of harmfulness , then you should be able to control antibiotic resistance .
and the idea is very simple .
if you 've got a harmful organism , a high proportion of the people are going to be symptomatic , a high proportion of the people are going to be going to get antibiotics .
you 've got a lot of pressure favoring antibiotic resistance , so you get increased virulence leading to the evolution of increased antibiotic resistance .
and once you get increased antibiotic resistance , the antibiotics aren 't knocking out the harmful strains anymore .
so , you 've got a higher level of virulence .
so , you get this vicious cycle .
the goal is to turn this around .
if you could cause an evolutionary decrease in virulence by cleaning up the water supply , you should be able to get an evolutionary decrease in antibiotic resistance .
so , we can go to the same countries and look and see .
did chile avoid the problem of antibiotic resistance ,
whereas did ecuador actually have the beginnings of the problem ?
if we look in the beginning of the 1990s , we see , again , a lot of variation .
in this case , on the y-axis , we 've just got a measure of antibiotic sensitivity --
and i won 't go into that .
but we 've got a lot of variation in antibiotic sensitivity in chile , peru and ecuador , and no trend across the years .
but if we look at the end of the 1990s , just half a decade later , we see that in ecuador they started having a resistance problem .
antibiotic sensitivity was going down .
and in chile , you still had antibiotic sensitivity .
so , it looks like chile dodged two bullets .
they got the organism to evolve to mildness , and they got no development of antibiotic resistance .
now , these ideas should apply across the board ,
as long as you can figure out why some organisms evolved to virulence .
and i want to give you just one more example , because we 've talked a little bit about malaria .
and the example i want to deal with is , or the idea i want to deal with , the question is , what can we do to try to get the malarial organism to evolve to mildness ?
now , malaria 's transmitted by a mosquito , and normally if you 're infected with malaria , and you 're feeling sick , it makes it even easier for the mosquito to bite you .
and you can show , just by looking at data from literature , that vector-borne diseases are more harmful than non-vector-borne diseases .
but i think there 's a really fascinating example of what one can do experimentally to try to actually demonstrate this .
in the case of waterborne transmission , we 'd like to clean up the water supplies , see whether or not we can get those organisms to evolve towards mildness .
in the case of malaria , what we 'd like to do is mosquito-proof houses .
and the logic 's a little more subtle here .
if you mosquito-proof houses , when people get sick , they 're sitting in bed -- or in mosquito-proof hospitals , they 're sitting in a hospital bed -- and the mosquitoes can 't get to them .
so , if you 're a harmful variant in a place where you 've got mosquito-proof housing , then you 're a loser .
the only pathogens that get transmitted are the ones that are infecting people that feel healthy enough to walk outside and get mosquito bites .
so , if you were to mosquito proof houses , you should be able to get these organisms to evolve to mildness .
and there 's a really wonderful experiment that was done that suggests that we really should go ahead and do this .
and that experiment was done in northern alabama .
just to give you a little perspective on this , i 've given you a star at the intellectual center of the united states , which is right there in louisville , kentucky .
and this really cool experiment was done about 200 miles south of there , in northern alabama , by the tennessee valley authority .
they had dammed up the tennessee river .
they 'd caused the water to back up , they needed electric , hydroelectric power .
and when you get stagnant water , you get mosquitoes .
they found in the late ' 30s -- 10 years after they 'd made these dams -- that the people in northern alabama were infected with malaria ,
about a third to half of them were infected with malaria .
this shows you the positions of some of these dams .
ok , so the tennessee valley authority was in a little bit of a bind .
there wasn 't ddt , there wasn 't chloroquines : what do they do ?
well , they decided to mosquito proof every house in northern alabama .
so they did . they divided northern alabama into 11 zones , and within three years , about 100 dollars per house , they mosquito proofed every house .
and these are the data .
every row across here represents one of those 11 zones .
and the asterisks represent the time at which the mosquito proofing was complete .
and so what you can see is that just the mosquito-proofed housing , and nothing else , caused the eradication of malaria .
and this was , incidentally , published in 1949 , in the leading textbook of malaria , called " boyd 's malariology . "
but almost no malaria experts even know it exists .
this is important , because it tells us that if you have moderate biting densities , you can eradicate malaria by mosquito proofing houses .
now , i would suggest that you could do this in a lot of places .
like , you know , just as you get into the malaria zone , sub-saharan africa .
but as you move to really intense biting rate areas , like nigeria , you 're certainly not going to eradicate .
but that 's when you should be favoring evolution towards mildness .
so to me , it 's an experiment that 's waiting to happen , and if it confirms the prediction , then we should have a very powerful tool .
in a way , much more powerful than the kind of tools we 're looking at ,
because most of what 's being done today is to rely on things like anti-malarial drugs .
and we know that , although it 's great to make those anti-malarial drugs available at really low cost and high frequency , we know that when you make them highly available you 're going to get resistance to those drugs .
and so it 's a short-term solution .
this is a long-term solution .
what i 'm suggesting here is that we could get evolution working in the direction we want it to go ,
rather than always having to battle evolution as a problem that stymies our efforts to control the pathogen , for example with anti-malarial drugs .
so , this table i 've given just to emphasize that i 've only talked about two examples .
but as i said earlier , this kind of logic applies across the board for infectious diseases , and it ought to .
because when we 're dealing with infectious diseases , we 're dealing with living systems .
we 're dealing with living systems ; we 're dealing with systems that evolve .
and so if you do something with those systems , they 're going to evolve one way or another .
and all i 'm saying is that we need to figure out how they 'll evolve , so that -- we need to adjust our interventions to get the most bang for the intervention buck , so that we can get these organisms to evolve in the direction we want them to go .
so , i don 't really have time to talk about those things , but i did want to put them up there , just to give you a sense that there really are solutions to controlling the evolution of harmfulness of some of the nasty pathogens that we 're confronted with .
and this links up with a lot of the other ideas that have been talked about .
so , for example , earlier today there was discussion of , how do you really lower sexual transmission of hiv ?
what this emphasizes is that we need to figure out how it will work .
will it maybe get lowered if we alter the economy of the area ?
it may get lowered if we intervene in ways that encourage people to stay more faithful to partners , and so on .
but the key thing is to figure out how to lower it , because if we lower it , we 'll get an evolutionary change in the virus .
and the data really do support this : that you actually do get the virus evolving towards mildness .
and that will just add to the effectiveness of our control efforts .
so the other thing i really like about this , besides the fact that it brings a whole new dimension into the study of control of disease , is that often the kinds of interventions that you want , that it indicates should be done , are the kinds of interventions that people want anyhow .
but people just haven 't been able to justify the cost .
so , this is the kind of thing i 'm talking about .
if we know that we 're going to get extra bang for the buck from providing clean water , then i think that we can say , let 's push the effort into that aspect of the control , so that we can actually solve the problem , even though , if you just look at the frequency of infection , you would suggest that you can 't solve the problem well enough just by cleaning up water supply .
anyhow , i 'll end that there , and thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / todd _ kuiken _ a _ prosthetic _ arm _ that _ feels.html
physiatrist and engineer todd kuiken is building a prosthetic arm that connects with the human nervous system -- improving motion , control and even feeling . onstage , patient amanda kitts helps demonstrate this next-gen robotic arm .
design , engineering , invention , medicine , prosthetics , science , technology
1251
todd kuiken : a prosthetic arm that " feels "
so today , i would like to talk with you about bionics , which is the popular term for the science of replacing part of a living organism with a mechatronic device , or a robot .
it is essentially the stuff of life meets machine .
and specifically , i 'd like to talk with you about how bionics is evolving for people with arm amputations .
this is our motivation .
arm amputation causes a huge disability .
i mean , the functional impairment is clear .
our hands are amazing instruments .
and when you lose one , far less both , it 's a lot harder to do the things we physically need to do .
there 's also a huge emotional impact .
and actually , i spend as much of my time in clinic dealing with the emotional adjustment of patients as with the physical disability .
and finally , there 's a profound social impact .
we talk with our hands .
we greet with our hands .
and we interact with the physical world with our hands .
and when they 're missing , it 's a barrier .
arm amputation is usually caused by trauma , with things like industrial accidents , motor vehicle collisions or , very poignantly , war .
there are also some children who are born without arms , called congenital limb deficiency .
unfortunately , we don 't do great with upper-limb prosthetics .
there are two general types .
they 're called body-powered prostheses , which were invented just after the civil war , refined in world war i and world war ii .
here you see a patent for an arm in 1912 .
it 's not a lot different than the one you see on my patient .
they work by harnessing shoulder power .
so when you squish your shoulders , they pull on a bicycle cable .
and that bicycle cable can open or close a hand or a hook or bend an elbow .
and we still use them commonly , because they 're very robust and relatively simple devices .
the state of the art is what we call myoelectric prostheses .
these are motorized devices that are controlled by little electrical signals from your muscle .
every time you contract a muscle , it emits a little electricity that you can record with antennae or electrodes and use that to operate the motorized prosthesis .
they work pretty well for people who have just lost their hand , because your hand muscles are still there .
you squeeze your hand , these muscles contract .
you open it , these muscles contract .
so it 's intuitive , and it works pretty well .
well how about with higher levels of amputation ?
now you 've lost your arm above the elbow .
you 're missing not only these muscles , but your hand and your elbow too .
what do you do ?
well our patients have to use very code-y systems of using just their arm muscles to operate robotic limbs .
we have robotic limbs .
there are several available on the market , and here you see a few .
they contain just a hand that will open and close , a wrist rotator and an elbow .
there 's no other functions .
if they did , how would we tell them what to do ?
we built our own arm at the rehab institute of chicago where we 've added some wrist flexion and shoulder joints to get up to six motors , or six degrees of freedom .
and we 've had the opportunity to work with some very advanced arms that were funded by the u.s. military , using these prototypes , that had up to 10 different degrees of freedom including movable hands .
but at the end of the day , how do we tell these robotic arms what to do ?
how do we control them ?
well we need a neural interface , a way to connect to our nervous system or our thought processes so that it 's intuitive , it 's natural , like for you and i .
well the body works by starting a motor command in your brain , going down your spinal cord , out the nerves and to your periphery .
and your sensation 's the exact opposite .
you touch yourself , there 's a stimulus that comes up those very same nerves back up to your brain .
when you lose your arm , that nervous system still works .
those nerves can put out command signals .
and if i tap the nerve ending on a world war ii vet , he 'll still feel his missing hand .
so you might say , let 's go to the brain and put something in the brain to record signals , or in the end of the peripheral nerve and record them there .
and these are very exciting research areas , but it 's really , really hard .
you have to put in hundreds of microscopic wires to record from little tiny individual neurons -- ordinary fibers that put out tiny signals that are microvolts .
and it 's just too hard to use now and for my patients today .
so we developed a different approach .
we 're using a biological amplifier to amplify these nerve signals -- muscles .
muscles will amplify the nerve signals about a thousand-fold , so that we can record them from on top of the skin , like you saw earlier .
so our approach is something we call targeted reinnervation .
imagine , with somebody who 's lost their whole arm , we still have four major nerves that go down your arm .
and we take the nerve away from your chest muscle and let these nerves grow into it .
now you think , " close hand , " and a little section of your chest contracts .
you think , " bend elbow , " a different section contracts .
and we can use electrodes or antennae to pick that up and tell the arm to move .
that 's the idea .
so this is the first man that we tried it on .
his name is jesse sullivan .
he 's just a saint of a man -- 54-year-old lineman who touched the wrong wire and had both of his arms burnt so badly they had to be amputated at the shoulder .
jesse came to us at the ric to be fit with these state-of-the-art devices , and here you see them .
i 'm still using that old technology with a bicycle cable on his right side .
and he picks which joint he wants to move with those chin switches .
on the left side he 's got a modern motorized prosthesis with those three joints , and he operates little pads in his shoulder that he touches to make the arm go .
and jesse 's a good crane operator , and he did okay by our standards .
he also required a revision surgery on his chest .
and that gave us the opportunity to do targeted reinnervation .
so my colleague , dr. greg dumanian , did the surgery . first , we cut away the nerve to his own muscle , then we took the arm nerves and just kind of had them shift down onto his chest and closed him up .
and after about three months , the nerves grew in a little bit and we could get a twitch .
and after six months , the nerves grew in well , and you could see strong contractions .
and this is what it looks like .
this is what happens when jesse thinks open and close his hand , or bend or straighten your elbow .
you can see the movements on his chest , and those little hash marks are where we put our antennae , or electrodes .
and i challenge anybody in the room to make their chest go like this .
his brain is thinking about his arm .
he has not learned how to do this with the chest .
there is not a learning process .
that 's why it 's intuitive .
so here 's jesse in our first little test with him .
on the left-hand side , you see his original prosthesis , and he 's using those switches to move little blocks from one box to the other .
he 's had that arm for about 20 months , so he 's pretty good with it .
on the right side , two months after we fit him with his targeted reinnervation prosthesis -- which , by the way , is the same physical arm , just programmed a little different -- you can see that he 's much faster and much smoother as he moves these little blocks .
and we 're only able to use three of the signals at this time .
then we had one of those little surprises in science .
so we 're all motivated to get motor commands to drive robotic arms .
and after a few months , you touch jesse on his chest , and he felt his missing hand .
his hand sensation grew into his chest again probably because we had also taken away a lot of fat , so the skin was right down to the muscle and deinnervated , if you would , his skin .
so you touch jesse here , he feels his thumb ; you touch it here , he feels his pinky .
he feels light touch down to one gram of force .
he feels hot , cold , sharp , dull , all in his missing hand , or both his hand and his chest , but he can attend to either .
so this is really exciting for us , because now we have a portal , a portal , or a way to potentially give back sensation , so that he might feel what he touches with his prosthetic hand .
imagine sensors in the hand coming up and pressing on this new hand skin .
so it was very exciting .
we 've also gone on with what was initially our primary population of people with above-the-elbow amputations .
and here we deinnervate , or cut the nerve away , just from little segments of muscle and leave others alone that give us our up-down signals and two others that will give us a hand open and close signal .
this was one of our first patients , chris .
you see him with his original device on the left there after eight months of use , and on the right , it is two months .
he 's about four or five times as fast with this simple little performance metric .
all right .
so one of the best parts of my job is working with really great patients who are also our research collaborators .
and we 're fortunate today to have amanda kitts come and join us .
please welcome amanda kitts .
so amanda , would you please tell us how you lost your arm ?
amanda kitts : sure . in 2006 , i had a car accident .
and i was driving home from work , and a truck was coming the opposite direction , came over into my lane , ran over the top of my car and his axle tore my arm off .
todd kuiken : okay , so after your amputation , you healed up .
and you 've got one of these conventional arms .
can you tell us how it worked ?
ak : well , it was a little difficult , because all i had to work with was a bicep and a tricep .
so for the simple little things like picking something up , i would have to bend my elbow , and then i would have to cocontract to get it to change modes .
when i did that , i had to use my bicep to get the hand to close , use my tricep to get it to open , cocontract again to get the elbow to work again . tk : so it was a little slow ?
ak : a little slow , and it was just hard to work . you had to concentrate a whole lot .
tk : okay , so i think about nine months later that you had the targeted reinnervation surgery , took six more months to have all the reinnervation .
then we fit her with a prosthesis .
and how did that work for you ?
ak : it works good .
i was able to use my elbow and my hand simultaneously .
i could work them just by my thoughts .
so i didn 't have to do any of the cocontracting and all that .
tk : a little faster ?
ak : a little faster . and much more easy , much more natural .
tk : okay , this was my goal .
for 20 years , my goal was to let somebody [ be ] able to use their elbow and hand in an intuitive way and at the same time .
and we now have over 50 patients around the world who have had this surgery , including over a dozen of our wounded warriors in the u.s. armed services .
the success rate of the nerve transfers is very high .
because we 're putting a big fat nerve onto a little piece of muscle .
and it provides intuitive control .
our functional testing , those little tests , all show that they 're a lot quicker and a lot easier .
and the most important thing is our patients have appreciated it .
so that was all very exciting .
but we want to do better .
there 's a lot of information in those nerve signals , and we wanted to get more .
you can move each finger . you can move your thumb , your wrist .
can we get more out of it ?
so we did some experiments where we saturated our poor patients with zillions of electrodes and then had them try to do two dozen different tasks -- from wiggling a finger to moving a whole arm to reaching for something -- and recorded this data .
and then we used some algorithms that are a lot like speech recognition algorithms ,
called pattern recognition .
see .
and here you can see , on jesse 's chest , when he just tried to do three different things , you can see three different patterns .
but i can 't put in an electrode and say , " go there . "
so we collaborated with our colleagues in university of new brunswick , came up with this algorithm control , which amanda can now demonstrate .
ak : so i have the elbow that goes up and down .
i have the wrist rotation that goes -- and it can go all the way around .
and i have the wrist flexion and extension .
and i also have the hand closed and open .
tk : thank you , amanda .
now this is a research arm , but it 's made out of commercial components from here down and a few that i 've borrowed from around the world .
it 's about seven pounds , which is probably about what my arm would weigh if i lost it right here .
obviously , that 's heavy for amanda .
and in fact , it feels even heavier , because it 's not glued on the same .
she 's carrying all the weight through harnesses .
so the exciting part isn 't so much the mechatronics , but the control .
so we 've developed a small microcomputer that is blinking somewhere behind her back and is operating this all by the way she trains it to use her individual muscle signals .
so amanda , when you first started using this arm , how long did it take to use it ?
ak : it took just about probably three to four hours to get it to train .
i had to hook it up to a computer , so i couldn 't just train it anywhere .
so if it stopped working , i just had to take it off .
so now it 's able to train with just this little piece on the back .
i can wear it around .
if it stops working for some reason , i can retrain it .
takes about a minute .
tk : so we 're really excited , because now we 're getting to a clinically practical device . and that 's where our goal is -- to have something clinically pragmatic to wear .
we 've also had amanda able to use some of our more advanced arms that i showed you earlier .
here 's amanda using an arm made by deka research corporation .
and i believe dean kamen presented it at ted a few years ago .
so amanda , you can see , has really good control .
it 's all the pattern recognition .
and it now has a hand that can do different grasps .
what we do is have the patient go all the way open and think , " what hand grasp pattern do i want ? "
it goes into that mode , and then you can do up to five or six different hand grasps with this hand .
amanda , how many were you able to do with the deka arm ?
ak : i was able to get four .
i had the key grip , i had a chuck grip , i had a power grasp and i had a fine pinch .
but my favorite one was just when the hand was open , because i work with kids , and so all the time you 're clapping and singing , so i was able to do that again , which was really good .
tk : that hand 's not so good for clapping .
ak : can 't clap with this one .
tk : all right . so that 's exciting on where we may go with the better mechatronics , if we make them good enough to put out on the market and use in a field trial .
i want you to watch closely .
claudia : oooooh !
tk : that 's claudia , and that was the first time she got to feel sensation through her prosthetic .
she had a little sensor at the end of her prosthesis that then she rubbed over different surfaces , and she could feel different textures of sandpaper , different grits , ribbon cable , as it pushed on her reinnervated hand skin .
she said that when she just ran it across the table , it felt like her finger was rocking .
so that 's an exciting laboratory experiment on how to give back , potentially , some skin sensation .
but here 's another video that shows some of our challenges .
this is jesse , and he 's squeezing a foam toy .
and the harder he squeezes -- you see a little black thing in the middle that 's pushing on his skin proportional to how hard he squeezes .
but look at all the electrodes around it .
i 've got a real estate problem .
you 're supposed to put a bunch of these things on there , but our little motor 's making all kinds of noise right next to my electrodes .
so we 're really challenged on what we 're doing there .
the future is bright .
we 're excited about where we are and a lot of things we want to do .
so for example , one is to get rid of my real estate problem and get better signals .
we want to develop these little tiny capsules about the size of a piece of risotto that we can put into the muscles and telemeter out the emg signals , so that it 's not worrying about electrode contact .
and we can have the real estate open to try more sensation feedback .
we want to build a better arm .
this arm -- they 're always made for the 50th percentile male -- which means they 're too big for five-eighths of the world .
so rather than a super strong or super fast arm , we 're making an arm that is -- we 're starting with , the 25th percentile female -- that will have a hand that wraps around , opens all the way , two degrees of freedom in the wrist and an elbow .
so it 'll be the smallest and lightest and the smartest arm ever made .
once we can do it that small , it 's a lot easier making them bigger .
so those are just some of our goals .
and we really appreciate you all being here today .
i 'd like to tell you a little bit about the dark side , with yesterday 's theme .
so amanda came jet-lagged , she 's using the arm , there was a computer spook , a broken wire , a converter that sparked .
we took out a whole circuit in the hotel and just about put on the fire alarm .
and none of those problems could i have dealt with , but i have a really bright research team .
and thankfully dr. annie simon was with us and worked really hard yesterday to fix it .
that 's science .
and fortunately , it worked today .
so thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / boghuma _ kabisen _ titanji _ ethical _ riddles _ in _ hiv _ research.html
it 's an all too common story : after participating in an hiv clinical trial , a woman in sub-saharan africa is left without the resources to buy a bus ticket to her health clinic , let alone to afford life-saving antiretrovirals . boghuma kabisen titanji asks an important question : how can researchers looking for a cure make sure they 're not taking advantage of those most affected by the pandemic ?
aids , global issues , health care , medicine
1645
boghuma kabisen titanji : ethical riddles in hiv research
i 'd like to share with you the story of one of my patients called celine .
celine is a housewife and lives in a rural district of cameroon in west central africa . six years ago , at the time of her hiv diagnosis , she was recruited to participate in the clinical trial which was running in her health district at the time .
when i first met celine , a little over a year ago , she had gone for 18 months without any antiretroviral therapy , and she was very ill .
she told me that she stopped coming to the clinic when the trial ended because she had no money for the bus fare and was too ill to walk the 35-kilometer distance .
now during the clinical trial , she 'd been given all her antiretroviral drugs free of charge , and her transportation costs had been covered by the research funds .
all of these ended once the trial was completed , leaving celine with no alternatives . she was unable to tell me the names of the drugs she 'd received during the trial , or even what the trial had been about .
i didn 't bother to ask her what the results of the trial were because it seemed obvious to me that she would have no clue .
yet what puzzled me most was celine had given her informed consent to be a part of this trial , yet she clearly did not understand the implications of being a participant or what would happen to her once the trial had been completed .
now , i have shared this story with you as an example of what can happen to participants in the clinical trial when it is poorly conducted .
maybe this particular trial yielded exciting results .
maybe it even got published in a high-profile scientific journal .
maybe it would inform clinicians around the world on how to improve on the clinical management of hiv patients .
but it would have done so at a price to hundreds of patients who , like celine , were left to their own devices once the research had been completed .
i do not stand here today to suggest in any way that conducting hiv clinical trials in developing countries is bad .
on the contrary , clinical trials are extremely useful tools , and are much needed to address the burden of disease in developing countries .
however , the inequalities that exist between richer countries and developing countries in terms of funding pose a real risk for exploitation , especially in the context of externally-funded research .
sadly enough , the fact remains that a lot of the studies that are conducted in developing countries could never be authorized in the richer countries which fund the research .
i 'm sure you must be asking yourselves what makes developing countries , especially those in sub-saharan africa , so attractive for these hiv clinical trials ?
well , in order for a clinical trial to generate valid and widely applicable results , they need to be conducted with large numbers of study participants and preferably on a population with a high incidence of new hiv infections .
sub-saharan africa largely fits this description , with 22 million people living with hiv , an estimated 70 percent of the 30 million people who are infected worldwide .
also , research within the continent is a lot easier to conduct due to widespread poverty , endemic diseases and inadequate health care systems .
a clinical trial that is considered to be potentially beneficial to the population is more likely to be authorized , and in the absence of good health care systems , almost any offer of medical assistance is accepted as better than nothing .
even more problematic reasons include lower risk of litigation , less rigorous ethical reviews , and populations that are willing to participate in almost any study that hints at a cure .
as funding for hiv research increases in developing countries and ethical review in richer countries become more strict , you can see why this context becomes very , very attractive .
the high prevalence of hiv drives researchers to conduct research that is sometimes scientifically acceptable but on many levels ethically questionable .
how then can we ensure that , in our search for the cure , we do not take an unfair advantage of those who are already most affected by the pandemic ?
i invite you to consider four areas i think we can focus on in order to improve the way in which things are done .
the first of these is informed consent .
now , in order for a clinical trial to be considered ethically acceptable , participants must be given the relevant information in a way in which they can understand , and must freely consent to participate in the trial .
this is especially important in developing countries , where a lot of participants consent to research because they believe it is the only way in which they can receive medical care or other benefits .
consent procedures that are used in richer countries are often inappropriate or ineffective in a lot of developing countries .
for example , it is counterintuitive to have an illiterate study participant , like celine , sign a lengthy consent form that they are unable to read , let alone understand .
local communities need to be more involved in establishing the criteria for recruiting participants in clinical trials , as well as the incentives for participation .
the information in these trials needs to be given to the potential participants in linguistically and culturally acceptable formats .
the second point i would like for you to consider is the standard of care that is provided to participants within any clinical trial .
now , this is subject to a lot of debate and controversy . should the control group in the clinical trial be given the best current treatment which is available anywhere in the world ?
or should they be given an alternative standard of care , such as the best current treatment available in the country in which the research is being conducted ?
is it fair to evaluate a treatment regimen which may not be affordable or accessible to the study participants once the research has been completed ?
now , in a situation where the best current treatment is inexpensive and simple to deliver , the answer is straightforward .
however , the best current treatment available anywhere in the world is often very difficult to provide in developing countries .
it is important to assess the potential risks and benefits of the standard of care which is to be provided to participants in any clinical trial , and establish one which is relevant for the context of the study and most beneficial for the participants within the study .
that brings us to the third point i want you think about : the ethical review of research .
an effective system for reviewing the ethical suitability of clinical trials is primordial to safeguard participants within any clinical trial .
unfortunately , this is often lacking or inefficient in a lot of developing countries .
local governments need to set up effective systems for reviewing the ethical issues around the clinical trials which are authorized in different developing countries , and they need to do this by setting up ethical review committees that are independent of the government and research sponsors .
public accountability needs to be promoted through transparency and independent review by nongovernmental and international organizations as appropriate .
the final point i would like for you to consider tonight is what happens to participants in the clinical trial once the research has been completed .
i think it is absolutely wrong for research to begin in the first place without a clear plan for what would happen to the participants once the trial has ended .
now , researchers need to make every effort to ensure that an intervention that has been shown to be beneficial during a clinical trial is accessible to the participants of the trial once the trial has been completed .
in addition , they should be able to consider the possibility of introducing and maintaining effective treatments in the wider community once the trial ends .
if , for any reason , they feel that this might not be possible , then i think they should have to ethically justify why the clinical trial should be conducted in the first place .
now , fortunately for celine , our meeting did not end in my office .
i was able to get her enrolled into a free hiv treatment program closer to her home , and with a support group to help her cope .
her story has a positive ending , but there are thousands of others in similar situations who are much less fortunate .
although she may not know this , my encounter with celine has completely changed the way in which i view hiv clinical trials in developing countries , and made me even more determined to be part of the movement to change the way in which things are done .
i believe that every single person listening to me tonight can be part of that change .
if you are a researcher , i hold you to a higher standard of moral conscience , to remain ethical in your research , and not compromise human welfare in your search for answers .
if you work for a funding agency or pharmaceutical company , i challenge you to hold your employers to fund research that is ethically sound .
if you come from a developing country like myself , i urge you to hold your government to a more thorough review of the clinical trials which are authorized in your country .
yes , there is a need for us to find a cure for hiv , to find an effective vaccine for malaria , to find a diagnostic tool that works for t.b. , but i believe that we owe it to those who willingly and selflessly consent to participate in these clinical trials to do this in a humane way .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / dee _ boersma _ pay _ attention _ to _ penguins.html
think of penguins as ocean sentinels , says dee boersma -- they 're on the frontlines of sea change . sharing stories of penguin life and culture , she suggests that we start listening to what penguins are telling us .
animals , global issues , mission blue , oceans , science
861
dee boersma : pay attention to penguins
i want to talk about penguins today .
but first , i want to start by saying that we need a new operating system , for the oceans and for the earth .
when i came to the galapagos 40 years ago , there were 3,000 people that lived in the galapagos .
now there are over 30,000 .
there were two jeeps on santa cruz .
now , there are around a thousand trucks and buses and cars there .
so the fundamental problems that we face are overconsumption and too many people .
it 's the same problems in the galapagos , except , obviously , it 's worse here , in some ways , than other places .
because we 've only doubled the population of the earth since the 1960s -- a little more than doubled --
but we have 6.7 billion people in the world ,
and we all like to consume .
and one of the major problems that we have is our operating system is not giving us the proper feedback .
we 're not paying the true environmental costs of our actions .
and when i came at age 22 to live on fernandina , let me just say , that i had never camped before .
i had never lived alone for any period of time ,
and i 'd never slept with sea lions snoring next to me all night .
but moreover , i 'd never lived on an uninhabited island .
punta espinosa is where i lived for over a year ,
and we call it uninhabited because there are no people there . but it 's alive with life ;
it 's hardly uninhabited .
so a lot has happened in the last 40 years ,
and what i learned when i came to the galapagos is the importance of wild places , wild things , certainly wildlife , and the amazing qualities that penguins have .
penguins are real athletes :
they can swim 173 kilometers in a day .
they can swim at the same speed day and night --
that 's faster than any olympic swimmer .
i mean , they can do like seven kilometers an hour and sustain it .
but what is really amazing , because of this deepness here , emperor penguins can go down more than 500 meters
and they can hold their breath for 23 minutes .
magellanic penguins , the ones that i work on , they can dive to about 90 meters and they can stay down for about 4.6 minutes .
humans , without fins : 90 meters , 3.5 minutes . and i doubt anybody in this room could really hold their breath for 3.5 minutes .
you have to train to be able to do that .
so penguins are amazing athletes .
the other thing is , i 've never met anybody that really doesn 't say that they like penguins .
they 're comical , they walk upright , and , of course , they 're diligent .
and , more importantly , they 're well-dressed .
so they have all the criteria that people normally like .
but scientifically , they 're amazing because they 're sentinels .
they tell us about our world in a lot of different ways , and particularly the ocean .
this is a picture of a galapagos penguin that 's on the front of a little zodiac here in the galapagos .
and that 's what i came to study .
i thought i was going to study the social behavior of galapagos penguins , but you already know penguins are rare .
these are the rarest penguins in the world .
why i thought i was going to be able to do that , i don 't know .
but the population has changed dramatically since i was first here .
when i counted penguins for the first time and tried to do a census , we just counted all the individual beaks that we could around all these islands .
we counted around 2,000 , so i don 't know how many penguins there really are , but i know i can count 2,000 .
if you go and do it now , the national parks count about 500 .
so we have a quarter of the penguins that we did 40 years ago .
and this is true of most of our living systems .
we have less than we had before , and most of them are in fairly steep decline .
and i want to just show you a little bit about why .
that 's a penguin braying to tell you that it 's important to pay attention to penguins .
most important of all , i didn 't know what that was the first time i heard it .
and you can imagine sleeping on fernandina your first night there and you hear this lonesome , plaintful call .
i fell in love with penguins , and it certainly has changed the rest of my life .
what i found out i was studying is really the difference in how the galapagos changes , the most extreme variation .
you 've heard about these el ninos , but this is the extreme that penguins all over the world have to adapt to .
this is a cold-water event called la nina .
where it 's blue and it 's green , it means the water is really cold .
and so you can see this current coming up -- in this case , the humboldt current -- that comes all the way out to the galapagos islands ,
and this deep undersea current , the cromwell current , that upwells around the galapagos .
that brings all the nutrients :
when this is cold in the galapagos , it 's rich , and there 's plenty of food for everyone .
when we have extreme el nino events , you see all this red , and you see no green out here around the galapagos .
that means that there 's no upwelling , and there 's basically no food .
so it 's a real desert for not only for the penguins and the sea lions and the marine iguanas ...
things die when there 's no food .
but we didn 't even know that that affected the galapagos when i went to study penguins .
and you can imagine being on an island hoping you 're going to see penguins , and you 're in the middle of an el nino event and there are no penguins .
they 're not breeding ; they 're not even around .
i studied marine iguanas at that point .
but this is a global phenomenon , we know that .
and if you look along the coast of argentina , where i work now , at a place called punta tombo -- the largest magellanic penguin colony in the world down here about 44 degrees south latitude -- you see that there 's great variation here .
some years , the cold water goes all the way up to brazil , and other years , in these la nina years , it doesn 't .
so the oceans don 't always act together ; they act differently , but that is the kind of variation that penguins have to live with , and it 's not easy .
so when i went to study the magellanic penguins , i didn 't have any problems .
there were plenty of them .
this is a picture at punta tombo in february showing all the penguins along the beach .
i went there because the japanese wanted to start harvesting them and turning them into high fashion golf gloves , protein and oil .
fortunately , nobody has harvested any penguins and we 're getting over 100,000 tourists a year to see them .
but the population is declining
and it 's declined fairly substantially , about 21 percent since 1987 , when i started these surveys , in terms of number of active nests .
here , you can see where punta tombo is ,
and they breed in incredibly dense colonies .
we know this because of long-term science , because we have long-term studies there .
and science is important in informing decision makers , and also in changing how we do and knowing the direction of change that we 're going in .
and so we have this penguin project . the wildlife conservation society has funded me along with a lot of individuals over the last 27 years to be able to produce these kinds of maps .
and also , we know that it 's not only galapagos penguins that are in trouble , but magellanics and many other species of penguins .
and so we have started a global penguin society to try to focus on the real plight of penguins .
this is one of the plights of penguins : oil pollution .
penguins don 't like oil and they don 't like to swim through oil .
the nice thing is , if you look down here in argentina , there 's no surface oil pollution from this composite map .
but , in fact , when we went to argentina , penguins were often found totally covered in oil .
so they were just minding their own business .
they ended up swimming through ballast water that had oil in it .
because when tankers carry oil they have to have ballast at some point , so when they 're empty , they have the ballast water in there .
when they come back , they actually dump this oily ballast water into the ocean .
why do they do that ? because it 's cheaper , because they don 't pay the real environmental costs .
we usually don 't , and we want to start getting the accounting system right so we can pay the real cost .
at first , the argentine government said , " no , there 's no way .
you can 't find oiled penguins in argentina .
we have laws ,
and we can 't have illegal dumping ; it 's against the law . "
so we ended up spending nine years convincing the government that there were lots of oiled penguins .
in some years , like this year , we found more than 80 percent of the adult penguins dead on the beach were covered in oil .
these little blue dots are the fledglings -- we do this survey every march -- which means that they 're only in the environment from january until march , so maybe three months at the most that they could get covered in oil .
and you can see , in some years over 60 percent of the fledglings were oiled .
eventually , the government listened and , amazingly , they changed their laws .
they moved the tanker lanes 40 kilometers farther off shore , and people are not doing as much illegal dumping .
so what we 're seeing now is very few penguins are oiled .
why are there even these penguins oiled ?
because we 've solved the problem in chubut province , which is like a state in argentina where punta tombo is -- so that 's about 1,000 kilometers of coastline -- but we haven 't solved the problem in northern argentina , uruguay and brazil .
so now i want to show you that penguins are affected .
i 'm just going to talk about two things .
this is climate change . now this has really been a fun study because i put satellite tags on the back of these magellanic penguins .
try to convince donors to give you a couple thousand dollars to glue a satellite tag on the back of penguins .
but we 've been doing this now for more than a decade to learn where they go .
we thought we needed a marine protected area of about 30 kilometers , and then we put a satellite tag on the back of a penguin . and what the penguins show us -- and these are all the little dots from where the penguins ' positions were for penguins in incubation in 2003 --
and what you see is some of these individuals are going 800 kilometers away from their nests .
so that means as their mate is sitting on the nest incubating the eggs , the other one is out there foraging ,
and the longer they have to stay gone , the worse condition the mate is in when the mate comes back .
and , of course , all of this then leads to a vicious cycle and you can 't raise a lot of chicks .
here you see in 2003 -- these are all the dots of where the penguins are -- they were raising a little over a half of a chick .
here , you can see in 2006 , they raised almost three quarters of a chick per nest ,
and you can see that they 're closer to punta tombo ; they 're not going as far away .
this past year , in 2009 , you can see that they 're now raising about a fourth of a chick ,
and some of these individuals are going more than 900 kilometers away from their nests .
so it 's kind of like you having a job in chicago , and then you get transferred to st. louis , and your mate is not happy about this because you 've got to pay airfare , because you 're gone longer .
the same thing 's true for penguins as well .
and they 're going about , on average now , 40 kilometers farther than they did a decade ago .
we need to be able to get information out to the general public .
and so we started a publication with the society for conservation that we think presents cutting-edge science in a new , novel way , because we have reporters that are good writers that actually can distill the information and make it accessible to the general public .
so if you 're interested in cutting-edge science and smarter conservation , you should join with our 11 partners -- some of them here in this room , like the nature conservancy -- and look at this magazine because we need to get information out about conservation to the general public .
lastly i want to say that all of you , probably , have had some relationship at some time in your life with a dog , a cat , some sort of pet , and you recognized that those are individuals .
and some of you consider them almost part of your family .
if you had a relationship with a penguin , you 'd see it in the same sort of way .
they 're amazing creatures that really change how you view the world because they 're not that different from us :
they 're trying to make a living ,
they 're trying to raise their offspring ,
they 're trying to get on and survive in the world .
this is turbo the penguin .
turbo 's never been fed .
he met us and got his name because he started standing under my diesel truck : a turbo truck , so we named him turbo .
turbo has taken to knocking on the door with his beak ,
we let him in and he comes in here .
and i just wanted to show you what happened one day when turbo brought in a friend .
so this is turbo .
he 's coming up to one of my graduate students and flipper patting , which he would do to a female penguin .
and you can see , he 's not trying to bite .
this guy has never been in before and he 's trying to figure out , " what is going on ?
what is this guy doing ?
this is really pretty weird . "
and you 'll see soon that my graduate student ... and you see , turbo 's pretty intent on his flipper patting .
and now he 's looking at the other guy , saying , " you are really weird . "
and now look at this : not friendly .
so penguins really differ in their personalities just like our dogs and our cats .
we 're also trying to collect our information and become more technologically literate .
so we 're trying to put that in computers in the field .
and penguins are always involved in helping us or not helping us in one way or another .
this is a radio frequency id system .
you put a little piece of rice in the foot of a penguin that has a barcode , so it tells you who it is .
it walks over the pad , and you know who it is .
okay , so here are a few penguins coming in .
see , this one 's coming back to its nest .
they 're all coming in at this time , walking across there , just kind of leisurely coming in .
here 's a female that 's in a hurry . she 's got food .
she 's really rushing back , because it 's hot , to try to feed her chicks .
and then there 's another fellow that will leisurely come by .
look how fat he is . he 's walking back to feed his chicks .
then i realize that they 're playing king of the box .
this is my box up here , and this is the system that works .
you can see this penguin , he goes over , he looks at those wires , does not like that wire .
he unplugs the wire ; we have no data .
so , they really are pretty amazing creatures .
ok .
most important thing is : only you can change yourself ,
and only you can change the world and make it better , for people as well as penguins .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / parag _ khanna _ maps _ the _ future _ of _ countries.html
many people think the lines on the map no longer matter , but parag khanna says they do . using maps of the past and present , he explains the root causes of border conflicts worldwide and proposes simple yet cunning solutions for each .
economics , global issues , history , map , politics , state-building , war , world cultures
645
parag khanna maps the future of countries
do we live in a borderless world ?
before you answer that , have a look at this map .
contemporary political map shows that we have over 200 countries in the world today .
that 's probably more than at any time in centuries .
now , many of you will object .
for you this would be a more appropriate map .
you could call it tedistan .
in tedistan , there are no borders , just connected spaces and unconnected spaces .
most of you probably reside in one of the 40 dots on this screen , of the many more that represent 90 percent of the world economy .
but let 's talk about the 90 percent of the world population that will never leave the place in which they were born .
for them , nations , countries , boundaries , borders still matter a great deal , and often violently .
now here at ted , we 're solving some of the great riddles of science and mysteries of the universe .
well here is a fundamental problem we have not solved : our basic political geography .
how do we distribute ourselves around the world ?
now this is important , because border conflicts justify so much of the world 's military-industrial complex .
border conflicts can derail so much of the progress that we hope to achieve here .
so i think we need a deeper understanding of how people , money , power , religion , culture , technology interact to change the map of the world .
and we can try to anticipate those changes , and shape them in a more constructive direction .
so we 're going to look at some maps of the past , the present and some maps you haven 't seen in order to get a sense of where things are going .
let 's start with the world of 1945 .
1945 there were just 100 countries in the world .
after world war ii , europe was devastated , but still held large overseas colonies : french west africa , british east africa , south asia , and so forth .
then over the late ' 40s , ' 50s , ' 60s , ' 70s and ' 80s , waves of decolonization took place .
over 50 new countries were born .
you can see that africa has been fragmented .
india , pakistan , bangladesh , south east asian nations created .
then came the end of the cold war .
the end of the cold war and the disintegration of the soviet union .
you had the creation of new states in eastern europe , the former yugoslav republics and the balkans , and the ' stans of central asia .
today we have 200 countries in the world .
the entire planet is covered by sovereign , independent nation-states .
does that mean that someone 's gain has to be someone else 's loss ?
let 's zoom in on one of the most strategic areas of the world , eastern eurasia .
as you can see on this map , russia is still the largest country in the world .
and as you know , china is the most populous .
and they share a lengthy land border .
what you don 't see on this map is that most of russia 's 150 million people are concentrated in its western provinces and areas that are close to europe .
and only 30 million people are in its eastern areas .
in fact , the world bank predicts that russia 's population is declining towards about 120 million people and there is another thing that you don 't see on this map .
stalin , khrushchev and other soviet leaders forced russians out to the far east to be in gulags , labor camps , nuclear cities , whatever the case was .
but as oil prices rose , russian governments have invested in infrastructure to unite the country , east and west .
but nothing has more perversely impacted russia 's demographic distribution ,
because the people in the east , who never wanted to be there anyway , have gotten on those trains and roads and gone back to the west .
as a result , in the russian far east today , which is twice the size of india , you have exactly six million russians .
so let 's get a sense of what is happening in this part of the world .
we can start with mongolia , or as some call it , mine-golia .
why do they call it that ?
because in mine-golia , chinese firms operate and own most of the mines -- copper , zinc , gold -- and they truck the resources south and east into mainland china .
china isn 't conquering mongolia . it 's buying it .
colonies were once conquered . today countries are bought .
so let 's apply this principle to siberia .
siberia most of you probably think of as a cold , desolate , unlivable place .
but in fact , with global warming and rising temperatures , all of a sudden you have vast wheat fields and agribusiness , and grain being produced in siberia .
but who is it going to feed ?
well , just on the other side of the amo river , in the heilongjiang and harbin provinces of china , you have over 100 million people .
that 's larger than the entire population of russia .
every single year , for at least a decade or more , [ 60,000 ] of them have been voting with their feet , crossing , moving north and inhabiting this desolate terrain .
they set up their own bazaars and medical clinics .
they 've taken over the timber industry and been shipping the lumber east , back into china .
again , like mongolia , china isn 't conquering russia . it 's just leasing it .
that 's what i call globalization chinese style .
now maybe this is what the map of the region might look like in 10 to 20 years .
but hold on . this map is 700 years old .
this is the map of the yuan dynasty , led by kublai khan , the grandson of genghis khan .
so history doesn 't necessarily repeat itself , but it does rhyme .
this is just to give you a taste of what 's happening in this part of the world .
again , globalization chinese style .
because globalization opens up all kinds of ways for us to undermine and change the way we think about political geography . so , the history of east asia in fact , people don 't think about nations and borders .
they think more in terms of empires and hierarchies , usually chinese or japanese .
well it 's china 's turn again .
so let 's look at how china is re-establishing that hierarchy in the far east .
it starts with the global hubs .
remember the 40 dots on the nighttime map that show the hubs of the global economy ?
east asia today has more of those global hubs than any other region in the world .
tokyo , seoul , beijing , shanghai , hong kong , singapore and sidney .
these are the filters and funnels of global capital .
trillions of dollars a year are being brought into the region ,
so much of it being invested into china .
then there is trade .
these vectors and arrows represent ever stronger trade relationships that china has with every country in the region .
specifically , it targets japan and korea and australia , countries that are strong allies of the united states .
australia , for example , is heavily dependent on exporting iron ore and natural gas to china .
for poorer countries , china reduces tariffs so that laos and cambodia can sell their goods more cheaply and become dependent on exporting to china as well .
and now many of you have been reading in the news how people are looking to china to lead the rebound , the economic rebound , not just in asia , but potentially for the world .
the asian free trade zone , almost free trade zone , that 's emerging now has a greater trade volume than trade across the pacific .
so china is becoming the anchor of the economy in the region .
another pillar of this strategy is diplomacy .
china has signed military agreements with many countries in the region .
it has become the hub of diplomatic institutions such as the east asian community .
some of these organizations don 't even have the united states as a member .
there is a treaty of nonaggression between countries , such that if there were a conflict between china and the united states , most countries vow to just sit it out , including american allies like korea and australia .
another pillar of the strategy , like russia , is demographic .
china exports business people , nannies , students , teachers to teach chinese around the region , to intermarry and to occupy ever greater commanding heights of the economies .
already ethnic chinese people in malaysia , thailand and indonesia are the real key factors and drivers in the economies there .
chinese pride is resurgent in the region as a result .
singapore , for example , used to ban chinese language education .
now it encourages it .
if you add it all up what do you get ?
well , if you remember before world war ii , japan had a vision for a greater japanese co-prosperity sphere .
what 's emerging today is what you might call a greater chinese co-prosperity sphere .
so no matter what the lines on the map tell you in terms of nations and borders , what you really have emerging in the far east are national cultures , but in a much more fluid , imperial zone .
all of this is happening without firing a shot .
that 's most certainly not the case in the middle east where countries are still very uncomfortable in the borders left behind by european colonialists .
so what can we do to think about borders differently in this part of the world ?
what lines on the map should we focus on ?
what i want to present to you is what i call state building , day by day .
let 's start with iraq .
six years after the u.s. invasion of iraq , the country still exists more on a map than it does in reality .
oil used to be one of the forces holding iraq together ; now it is the most significant cause of the country 's disintegration .
the reason is kurdistan .
the kurds for 3,000 years have been waging a struggle for independence ,
and now is their chance to finally have it .
these are pipeline routes , which emerge from kurdistan , which is an oil-rich region .
and today , if you go to kurdistan , you 'll see that kurdish peshmerga guerillas are squaring off against the sunni iraqi army .
but what are they guarding ?
is it really a border on the map ?
no . it 's the pipelines .
if the kurds can control their pipelines , they can set the terms of their own statehood .
now should we be upset about this , about the potential disintegration of iraq ?
i don 't believe we should .
iraq will still be the second largest oil producer in the world , behind saudi arabia .
and we 'll have a chance to solve a 3,000 year old dispute .
now remember kurdistan is landlocked .
it has no choice but to behave .
in order to profit from its oil it has to export it through turkey or syria , and other countries , and iraq itself .
and therefore it has to have amicable relations with them .
now lets look at a perennial conflict in the region . that is , of course , in palestine .
palestine is something of a cartographic anomaly because it 's two parts palestinian , one part israel .
30 years of rose garden diplomacy have not delivered us peace in this conflict .
what might ? i believe that what might solve the problem is infrastructure .
today donors are spending billions of dollars on this .
these two arrows are an arc , an arc of commuter railroads and other infrastructure that link the west bank and gaza .
if gaza can have a functioning port and be linked to the west bank , you can have a viable palestinian state , palestinian economy .
that , i believe , is going to bring peace to this particular conflict .
the lesson from kurdistan and from palestine is that independence alone , without infrastructure , is futile .
now what might this entire region look like if in fact we focus on other lines on the map besides borders , when the insecurities might abate ?
the last time that was the case was actually a century ago , during the ottoman empire . this is the hejaz railway .
the hejaz railway ran from istanbul to medina via damascus . it even had an offshoot running to haifa in what is today israel , on the mediterranean sea .
but today the hejaz railway lies in tatters , ruins .
if we were to focus on reconstructing these curvy lines on the map , infrastructure , that cross the straight lines , the borders , i believe the middle east would be a far more peaceful region .
now let 's look at another part of the world , the former soviet republics of central asia , the ' stans .
these countries ' borders originate from stalin 's decrees .
he purposely did not want these countries to make sense .
he wanted ethnicities to mingle in ways that would allow him to divide and rule .
fortunately for them , most of their oil and gas resources were discovered after the soviet union collapsed .
now i know some of you may be thinking , " oil , oil , oil .
why is it all he 's talking about is oil ? "
well , there is a big difference in the way we used to talk about oil and the way we 're talking about it now .
before it was , how do we control their oil ?
now it 's their oil for their own purposes .
and i assure you it 's every bit as important to them as it might have been to colonizers and imperialists .
here are just some of the pipeline projections and possibilities and scenarios and routes that are being mapped out for the next several decades .
a great deal of them .
for a number of countries in this part of the world , having pipelines is the ticket to becoming part of the global economy and for having some meaning besides the borders that they are not loyal to themselves .
just take azerbaijan .
azerbaijan was a forgotten corner of the caucuses ,
but now with the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan pipeline into turkey , it has rebranded itself as the frontier of the west .
then there is turkmenistan , which most people think of as a frozen basket case .
but now it 's contributing gas across the caspian sea to provide for europe , and even a potentially turkmen- afghan-pakistan-india pipeline as well .
then there is kazakhstan , which didn 't even have a name before .
it was more considered south siberia during the soviet union .
today most people recognize kazakhstan as an emerging geopolitical player . why ?
because it has shrewdly designed pipelines to flow across the caspian , north through russia , and even east to china .
more pipelines means more silk roads , instead of the great game .
the great game connotes dominance of one over the other .
silk road connotes independence and mutual trust .
the more pipelines we have , the more silk roads we 'll have , and the less of a dominant great game competition we 'll have in the 21st century .
now let 's look at the only part of the world that really has brought down its borders , and how that has enhanced its strength .
and that is , of course , europe .
the european union began as just the coal and steel community of six countries ,
and their main purpose was really to keep the rehabilitation of germany to happen in a peaceful way .
but then eventually it grew into 12 countries ,
and those are the 12 stars on the european flag .
the e.u. also became a currency block , and is now the most powerful trade block in the entire world .
on average , the e.u. has grown by one country per year since the end of the cold war .
in fact most of that happened on just one day .
in 2004 , 15 new countries joined the e.u .
and now you have what most people consider a zone of peace spanning 27 countries and 450 million people .
so what is next ? what is the future of the european union ?
well in light blue , you see the zones or the regions that are at least two-thirds or more dependent on the european union for trade and investment .
what does that tell us ? trade and investment tell us that europe is putting its money where its mouth is .
even if these regions aren 't part of the e.u. , they are becoming part of its sphere of influence .
just take the balkans . croatia , serbia bosnia , they 're not members of the e.u. yet .
but you can get on a german ice train and make it almost to albania .
in bosnia you use the euro currency already , and that 's the only currency they 're probably ever going to have .
so , looking at other parts of europe 's periphery , such as north africa .
on average , every year or two , a new oil or gas pipeline opens up under the mediterranean , connecting north africa to europe .
that not only helps europe diminish its reliance on russia for energy , but if you travel to north africa today , you 'll hear more and more people saying that they don 't really think of their region as the middle east .
so in other words , i believe that president sarkozy of france is right when he talks about a mediterranean union .
now let 's look at turkey and the caucasus .
i mentioned azerbaijan before .
that corridor of turkey and the caucasus has become the conduit for 20 percent of europe 's energy supply .
so does turkey really have to be a member of the european union ?
i don 't think it does . i think it 's already part of a euro-turkish superpower .
so what 's next ? where are we going to see borders change and new countries born ?
well , south central asia , south west asia is a very good place to start .
eight years after the u.s. invaded afghanistan there is still a tremendous amount of instability .
pakistan and afghanistan are still so fragile that neither of them have dealt constructively with the problem of pashtun nationalism .
this is the flag that flies in the minds of 20 million pashtuns who live on both sides of the afghan and pakistan border .
let 's not neglect the insurgency just to the south ,
balochistan . two weeks ago , balochi rebels attacked a pakistani military garrison , and this was the flag that they raised over it .
the post-colonial entropy that is happening around the world is accelerating ,
and i expect more such changes to occur in the map as the states fragment .
of course , we can 't forget africa .
53 countries , and by far the most number of suspiciously straight lines on the map .
if we were to look at all of africa we could most certainly acknowledge far more , tribal divisions and so forth .
but let 's just look at sudan , the second-largest country in africa .
it has three ongoing civil wars , the genocide in darfur , which you all know about , the civil war in the east of the country , and south sudan .
south sudan is going to be having a referendum in 2011 in which it is very likely to vote itself independence .
now let 's go up to the arctic circle .
there is a great race on for energy resources under the arctic seabed .
who will win ? canada ? russia ? the united states ?
actually greenland .
several weeks ago greenland 's [ 60,000 ] people voted themselves self-governance rights from denmark .
so denmark is about to get a whole lot smaller .
what is the lesson from all of this ?
geopolitics is a very unsentimental discipline . it 's constantly morphing and changing the world , like climate change .
and like our relationship with the ecosystem we 're always searching for equilibrium in how we divide ourselves across the planet .
now we fear changes on the map .
we fear civil wars , death tolls , having to learn the names of new countries .
but i believe that the inertia of the existing borders that we have today is far worse and far more violent .
the question is how do we change those borders , and what lines do we focus on ?
i believe we focus on the lines that cross borders , the infrastructure lines . then we 'll wind up with the world we want , a borderless one .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / cynthia _ kenyon _ experiments _ that _ hint _ of _ longer _ lives.html
what controls aging ? biochemist cynthia kenyon has found a simple genetic mutation that can double the lifespan of a simple worm , c. elegans . the lessons from that discovery , and others , are pointing to how we might one day significantly extend youthful human life .
aging , biotech , genetics , medicine , science , technology
1274
cynthia kenyon : experiments that hint of longer lives
have you ever wanted to stay young a little longer and put off aging ?
this is a dream of the ages .
but scientists have for a long time thought this just was never going to be possible .
they thought you just wear out , there 's nothing you can do about it -- kind of like an old shoe .
but if you look in nature , you see that different kinds of animals can have really different lifespans .
now these animals are different from one another , because they have different genes .
so that suggests that somewhere in these genes , somewhere in the dna , are genes for aging , genes that allow them to have different lifespans .
so if there are genes like that , then you can imagine that , if you could change one of the genes in an experiment , an aging gene , maybe you could slow down aging and extend lifespan .
and if you could do that , then you could find the genes for aging .
and if they exist and you can find them , then maybe one could eventually do something about it .
so we 've set out to look for genes that control aging .
and we didn 't study any of these animals .
instead , we studied a little , tiny , round worm called c. elegans , which is just about the size of a comma in a sentence .
and we were really optimistic that we could find something because there had been a report of a long-lived mutant .
so we started to change genes at random , looking for long-lived animals .
and we were very lucky to find that mutations that damage one single gene called daf-2 doubled the lifespan of the little worm .
so you can see in black , after a month -- they 're very short-lived ; that 's why we like to study them for studies of aging -- in black , after a month , the normal worms are all dead .
but at that time , most of the mutant worms are still alive .
and it isn 't until twice as long that they 're all dead .
and now i want to show what they actually look like in this movie here .
so the first thing you 're going to see is the normal worm when it 's about college student age -- a young adult .
it 's quite a cute little fellow .
and next you 're going to see the long-lived mutant when it 's young .
so this animal is going to live twice as long .
is it miserable ? it doesn 't seem to be .
it 's active . you can 't tell the difference really .
and they can be completely fertile -- have the same number of progeny as the normal worms do .
now get out your handkerchiefs here .
you 're going to see , in just two weeks , the normal worms are old .
you can see the little head moving down at the bottom there .
but everything else is just lying there .
the animal 's clearly in the nursing home .
and if you look at the tissues of the animal , they 're starting to deteriorate .
you know , even if you 've never seen one of these little c. elegans -- which probably most of you haven 't seen one -- you can tell they 're old -- isn 't that interesting ?
so there 's something about aging that 's kind of universal .
and now here is the daf-2 mutant .
one gene is changed out of 20,000 , and look at it .
it 's the same age , but it 's not in the nursing home ;
it 's going skiing .
this is what 's really cool : it 's aging more slowly .
it takes this worm two days to age as much as the normal worm ages in one day .
and when i tell people about this , they tend to think of maybe an 80 or 90 year-old person who looks really good for being 90 or 80 .
but it 's really more like this : let 's say you 're a 30 year-old guy -- or in your 30s -- and you 're a bachelor and you 're dating people .
and you meet someone you really like , you get to know her .
and you 're in a restaurant , and you say , " well how old are you ? "
she says , " i 'm 60 . "
that 's what it 's like . and you would never know .
you would never know , until she told you .
okay .
so what is the daf-2 gene ?
well as you know , genes , which are part of the dna , they 're instructions to make a protein that does something .
and the daf-2 gene encodes a hormone receptor .
so what you see in the picture there is a cell with a hormone receptor in red punching through the edge of the cell .
so part of it is like a baseball glove .
part of it 's on the outside , and it 's catching the hormone as it comes by in green .
and the other part is on the inside where it sends signals into the cell .
okay , so what is the daf-2 receptor telling the inside of the cell ?
i just told you that , if you make a mutation in the daf-2 gene cell , that you get a receptor that doesn 't work as well ; the animal lives longer .
so that means that the normal function of this hormone receptor is to speed up aging .
that 's what that arrow means .
it speeds up aging . it makes it go faster .
so it 's like the animal has the grim reaper inside of itself , speeding up aging .
so this is altogether really , really interesting .
it says that aging is subject to control by the genes , and specifically by hormones .
so what kind of hormones are these ?
there 's lots of hormones . there 's testosterone , adrenalin .
you know about a lot of them .
these hormones are similar to hormones that we have in our bodies .
the daf-2 hormone receptor is very similar to the receptor for the hormone insulin and igf-1 .
now you 've all heard of at least insulin .
insulin is a hormone that promotes the uptake of nutrients into your tissues after you eat a meal .
and the hormone igf-1 promotes growth .
so these functions were known for these hormones for a long time , but our studies suggested that maybe they had a third function that nobody knew about -- maybe they also affect aging .
and it 's looking like that 's the case .
so after we made our discoveries with little c. elegans , people who worked on other kinds of animals started asking , if we made the same daf-2 mutation , the hormone receptor mutation , in other animals , will they live longer ?
and that is the case in flies .
if you change this hormone pathway in flies , they live longer .
and also in mice -- and mice are mammals like us .
so it 's an ancient pathway , because it must have arisen a long time ago in evolution such that it still works in all these animals .
and also , the common precursor also gave rise to people .
so maybe it 's working in people the same way .
and there are hints of this .
so for example , there was one study that was done in a population of ashkenazi jews in new york city .
and just like any population , most of the people live to be about 70 or 80 , but some live to be 90 or 100 .
and what they found was that people who lived to 90 or 100 were more likely to have daf-2 mutations -- that is , changes in the gene that encodes the receptor for igf-1 .
and these changes made the gene not act as well as the normal gene would have acted .
it damaged the gene .
so those are hints suggesting that humans are susceptible to the effects of the hormones for aging .
so the next question , of course , is : is there any effect on age-related disease ?
as you age , you 're much more likely to get cancer , alzheimer 's disease , heart disease , all sorts of diseases .
it turns out that these long-lived mutants are more resistant to all these diseases .
they hardly get cancer , and when they do it 's not as severe .
so it 's really interesting , and it makes sense in a way , that they 're still young , so why would they be getting diseases of aging until their old ?
so it suggests that , if we could have a therapeutic or a pill to take to replicate some of these effects in humans , maybe we would have a way of combating lots of different age-related diseases all at once .
so how can a hormone ultimately affect the rate of aging ?
how could that work ?
well it turns out that in the daf-2 mutants , a whole lot of genes are switched on in the dna that encode proteins that protect the cells and the tissues , and repair damage .
and the way that they 're switched on is by a gene regulator protein called foxo .
so in a daf-2 mutant -- you see that i have the x drawn here through the receptor .
the receptor isn 't working as well .
under those conditions , the foxo protein in blue has gone into the nucleus -- that little compartment there in the middle of the cell -- and it 's sitting down on a gene binding to it .
you see one gene . there are lots of genes actually that bind on foxo .
and it 's just sitting on one of them .
so foxo turns on a lot of genes .
and the genes it turns on includes antioxidant genes , genes i call carrot-giver genes , whose protein products actually help other proteins to function well -- to fold correctly and function correctly .
and it can also escort them to the garbage cans of the cell and recycle them if they 're damaged .
dna repair genes are more active in these animals .
and the immune system is more active .
and many of these different genes , we 've shown , actually contribute to the long lifespan of the daf-2 mutant .
so it 's really interesting .
these animals have within them the latent capacity to live much longer than they normally do .
they have the ability to protect themselves from many kinds of damage , which we think makes them live longer .
so what about the normal worm ?
well when the daf-2 receptor is active , then it triggers a series of events that prevent foxo from getting into the nucleus where the dna is .
so it can 't turn the genes on .
that 's how it works . that 's why we don 't see the long lifespan , until we have the daf-2 mutant .
but what good is this for the worm ?
well we think that insulin and igf-1 hormones are hormones that are particularly active under favorable conditions -- in the good times -- when food is plentiful and there 's not a lot of stress in the environment .
then they promote the uptake of nutrients .
you can store the food , use it for energy , grow , etc .
but what we think is that , under conditions of stress , the levels of these hormones drop -- for example , having limited food supply .
and that , we think , is registered by the animal as a danger signal , a signal that things are not okay and that it should roll out its protective capacity .
so it activates foxo , foxo goes to the dna , and that triggers the expression of these genes that improves the ability of the cell to protect itself and repair itself .
and that 's why we think the animals live longer .
so you can think of foxo as being like a building superintendent .
so maybe he 's a little bit lazy , but he 's there , he 's taking care of the building .
but it 's deteriorating .
and then suddenly , he learns that there 's going to be a hurricane .
so he doesn 't actually do anything himself .
he gets on the telephone -- just like foxo gets on the dna -- and he calls up the roofer , the window person , the painter , the floor person .
and they all come and they fortify the house .
and then the hurricane comes through , and the house is in much better condition than it would normally have been in .
and not only that , it can also just last longer , even if there isn 't a hurricane .
so that 's the concept here for how we think this life extension ability exists .
now the really cool thing about foxo is that there are different forms of it .
we all have foxo genes , but we don 't all have exactly the same form of the foxo gene .
just like we all have eyes , but some of us have blue eyes and some of us have brown eyes .
and there are certain forms of the foxo gene that have found to be more frequently present in people who live to be 90 or 100 .
and that 's the case all over the world , as you can see from these stars .
and each one of these stars represents a population where scientists have asked , " okay , are there differences in the type of foxo genes among people who live a really long time ? " and there are .
we don 't know the details of how this works , but we do know then that foxo genes can impact the lifespan of people .
and that means that , maybe if we tweak it a little bit , we can increase the health and longevity of people .
so this is really exciting to me .
a foxo is a protein that we found in these little , round worms to affect lifespan , and here it affects lifespan in people .
so we 've been trying in our lab now to develop drugs that will activate this foxo cell using human cells now in order to try and come up with drugs that will delay aging and age-related diseases .
and i 'm really optimistic that this is going to work .
there are lots of different proteins that are known to affect aging .
and for at least one of them , there is a drug .
there 's one called tor , which is another nutrient sensor , like the insulin pathway .
and mutations that damage the tor gene -- just like the daf-2 mutations -- extend lifespan in worms and flies and mice .
but in this case , there 's already a drug called rapamycin that binds to the tor protein and inhibits its activity .
and you can take rapamycin and give it to a mouse -- even when it 's pretty old , like age 60 for a human , that old for a mouse -- if you give the mouse rapamycin , it will live longer .
now i don 't want you all to go out taking rapamycin .
it is a drug for people , but the reason is it suppresses the immune system .
so people take it to prevent organ transplants from being rejected .
so this may not be the perfect drug for staying young longer .
but still , here in the year 2011 , there 's a drug that you can give to mice at a pretty old age that will extend their lifespan , which comes out of this science that 's been done in all these different animals .
so i 'm really optimistic , and i think it won 't be too long , i hope , before this age-old dream begins to come true .
thank you .
matt ridley : thank you , cynthia .
let me get this straight . although you 're looking for a drug that can solve aging in old men like me , what you could do now pretty well in the lab , if you were allowed ethically , is start a human life from scratch with altered genes that would make it live for a lot longer ?
ck : ah , so the kinds of drugs i was talking about would not change the genes , they would just bind to the protein itself and change its activity .
so if you stop taking the drug , the protein would go back to normal .
you could change the genes in principle .
there isn 't the technology to do that .
but i don 't think that 's a good idea .
and the reason is that these hormones , like the insulin and the igf hormones and the tor pathway , they 're essential .
if you knock them out completely , then you 're very sick .
so it might be that you would just have to fine tune it very carefully to get the benefits without getting any problems .
and i think that 's much better , that kind of control would be much better as a drug .
and also , there are other ways of activating foxo that don 't even involve insulin or igf-1 that might even be safer .
mr : i wasn 't suggesting that i was going to go and do it , but ...
there 's a phenomenon which you have written about and spoken about , which is a negligible senescence .
there are some creatures on this planet already that don 't really do aging .
just move to one side for us , if you would .
ck : there are . there are some animals that don 't seem to age .
for example , there are some tortoises called blanding 's turtles .
and they grow to be about this size .
and they 've been tagged , and they 've been found to be 70 years old .
and when you look at these 70 year-old turtles , you can 't tell the difference , just by looking , between those turtles and 20 year-old turtles .
and the 70 year-old ones , actually they 're better at scouting out the good nesting places , and they also have more progeny every year .
and there are other examples of these kinds of animals , like turns , certain kinds of birds are like this .
and nobody knows if they really can live forever , or what keeps them from aging .
it 's not clear .
if you look at birds , which live a long time , cells from the birds tend to be more resistant to a lot of different environmental stresses like high temperature or hydrogen peroxide , things like that .
and our long-lived mutants are too .
they 're more resistant to these kinds of stresses .
so it could be that the pathways that i 've been talking about , which are set to run really quickly in the worm , have a different normal set point in something like a bird , so that a bird can live a lot longer .
and maybe they 're even set really differently in animals with no senescence at all -- but we don 't know .
mr : but what you 're talking about here is not extending human lifespan by preventing death , so much as extending human youthspan .
ck : yes , that 's right .
it 's more like , say , if you were a dog .
you notice that you 're getting old , and you look at your human and you think , " why isn 't this human getting old ? "
they 're not getting old in the dog 's lifespan .
it 's more like that .
but now we 're the human looking out and imagining a different human .
mr : thank you very much indeed , cynthia kenyon .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / dave _ meslin _ the _ antidote _ to _ apathy.html
local politics -- schools , zoning , council elections -- hit us where we live . so why don 't more of us actually get involved ? is it apathy ? dave meslin says no . he identifies 7 barriers that keep us from taking part in our communities , even when we truly care .
collaboration , community , culture , education , global issues , politics
1119
dave meslin : the antidote to apathy
how often do we hear that people just don 't care ?
how many times have you been told that real , substantial change isn 't possible because most people are too selfish , too stupid or too lazy to try to make a difference in their community ?
i propose to you today that apathy as we think we know it doesn 't actually exist , but rather , that people do care , but that we live in a world that actively discourages engagement by constantly putting obstacles and barriers in our way .
and i 'll give you some examples of what i mean .
let 's start with city hall .
you ever see one of these before ?
this is a newspaper ad .
it 's a notice of a zoning application change for a new office building so the neighborhood knows what 's happening .
as you can see , it 's impossible to read .
you need to get halfway down to even find out which address they 're talking about , and then farther down , in tiny 10-point font , to find out how to actually get involved .
imagine if the private sector advertised in the same way -- if nike wanted to sell a pair of shoes and put an ad in the paper like that .
now that would never happen .
you 'll never see an ad like that because nike actually wants you to buy their shoes .
whereas the city of toronto clearly doesn 't want you involved with the planning process , otherwise their ads would look something like this -- with all the information basically laid out clearly .
as long as the city 's putting out notices like this to try to get people engaged , then of course people aren 't going to be engaged .
but that 's not apathy ; that 's intentional exclusion .
public space .
the manner in which we mistreat our public spaces is a huge obstacle towards any type of progressive political change
because we 've essentially put a price tag on freedom of expression .
whoever has the most money gets the loudest voice , dominating the visual and mental environment .
the problem with this model is that there are some amazing messages that need to be said that aren 't profitable to say .
so you 're never going to see them on a billboard .
the media plays an important role in developing our relationship with political change , mainly by ignoring politics and focusing on celebrities and scandals ,
but even when they do talk about important political issues , they do it in a way that i feel discourages engagement .
and i 'll give you an example : the now magazine from last week -- progressive , downtown weekly in toronto .
this is the cover story .
it 's an article about a theater performance , and it starts with basic information about where it is , in case you actually want to go and see it after you 've read the article -- where , the time , the website .
same with this -- it 's a movie review , an art review , a book review -- where the reading is in case you want to go .
a restaurant -- you might not want to just read about it , maybe you want to go to the restaurant .
so they tell you where it is , what the prices are , the address , the phone number , etc . then you get to their political articles .
here 's a great article about an important election race that 's happening .
it talks about the candidates -- written very well -- but no information , no follow-up , no websites for the campaigns , no information about when the debates are , where the campaign offices are .
here 's another good article about a new campaign opposing privatization of transit without any contact information for the campaign .
the message seems to be that the readers are most likely to want to eat , maybe read a book , maybe see a movie , but not be engaged in their community .
and you might think this is a small thing , but i think it 's important because it sets a tone and it reinforces the dangerous idea that politics is a spectator sport .
heroes : how do we view leadership ?
look at these 10 movies . what do they have in common ?
anyone ?
they all have heroes who were chosen .
someone came up to them and said , " you 're the chosen one .
there 's a prophesy . you have to save the world . " and then someone goes off and saves the world because they 've been told to , with a few people tagging along .
this helps me understand why a lot of people have trouble seeing themselves as leaders
because it sends all the wrong messages about what leadership is about .
a heroic effort is a collective effort , number one .
number two , it 's imperfect ; it 's not very glamorous , and it doesn 't suddenly start and suddenly end .
it 's an ongoing process your whole life .
but most importantly , it 's voluntary .
it 's voluntary .
as long as we 're teaching our kids that heroism starts when someone scratches a mark on your forehead , or someone tells you that you 're part of a prophecy , they 're missing the most important characteristic of leadership , which is that it comes from within .
it 's about following your own dreams -- uninvited , uninvited -- and then working with others to make those dreams come true .
political parties : oh boy .
political parties could and should be one of the basic entry points for people to get engaged in politics .
instead , they 've become , sadly , uninspiring and uncreative organizations that rely so heavily on market research and polling and focus groups that they end up all saying the same thing , pretty much regurgitating back to us what we already want to hear at the expense of putting forward bold and creative ideas .
and people can smell that , and it feeds cynicism .
charitable status : groups who have charitable status in canada aren 't allowed to do advocacy . this is a huge problem and a huge obstacle to change because it means that some of the most passionate and informed voices are completely silenced , especially during election time .
which leads us to the last one , which is our elections .
as you may have noticed , our elections in canada are a complete joke .
we use out-of-date systems that are unfair and create random results .
canada 's currently led by a party that most canadians didn 't actually want .
how can we honestly and genuinely encourage more people to vote when votes don 't count in canada ?
you add all this up together and of course people are apathetic .
it 's like trying to run into a brick wall .
now i 'm not trying to be negative by throwing all these obstacles out and explaining what 's in our way .
quite the opposite : i actually think people are amazing and smart and that they do care .
but that , as i said , we live in this environment where all these obstacles are being put in our way .
as long as we believe that people , our own neighbors , are selfish , stupid or lazy , then there 's no hope .
but we can change all those things i mentioned .
we can open up city hall .
we can reform our electoral systems .
we can democratize our public spaces .
my main message is , if we can redefine apathy , not as some kind of internal syndrome , but as a complex web of cultural barriers that reinforces disengagement , and if we can clearly define , we can clearly identify , what those obstacles are , and then if we can work together collectively to dismantle those obstacles , then anything is possible .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / susan _ lim.html
pioneering surgeon susan lim performed the first liver transplant in asia . but a moral concern with transplants led her to look further , and to ask : could we be transplanting cells , not whole organs ? at the ink conference , she talks through her new research , discovering healing cells in some surprising places .
business , technology
1124
susan lim : transplant cells , not organs
so i was privileged to train in transplantation under two great surgical pioneers : thomas starzl , who performed the world 's first successful liver transplant in 1967 , and sir roy calne , who performed the first liver transplant in the u.k. in the following year .
i returned to singapore and , in 1990 , performed asia 's first successful cadaveric liver transplant procedure , but against all odds .
now when i look back , the transplant was actually the easiest part .
next , raising the money to fund the procedure .
but perhaps the most challenging part was to convince the regulators -- a matter which was debated in the parliament -- that a young female surgeon be allowed the opportunity to pioneer for her country .
but 20 years on , my patient , surinder , is asia 's longest surviving cadaveric liver transplant to date . and perhaps more important , i am the proud godmother to her 14 year-old son .
but not all patients on the transplant wait list are so fortunate .
the truth is , there are just simply not enough donor organs to go around .
as the demand for donor organs continues to rise , in large part due to the aging population , the supply has remained relatively constant .
in the united states alone , 100,000 men , women and children are on the waiting list for donor organs , and more than a dozen die each day because of a lack of donor organs .
the transplant community has actively campaigned in organ donation .
and the gift of life has been extended from brain-dead donors to living , related donors -- relatives who might donate an organ or a part of an organ , like a split liver graft , to a relative or loved one .
but as there was still a dire shortage of donor organs , the gift of life was then extended from living , related donors to now living , unrelated donors .
and this then has given rise to unprecedented and unexpected moral controversy .
how can one distinguish a donation that is voluntary and altruistic from one that is forced or coerced from , for example , a submissive spouse , an in-law , a servant , a slave , an employee ?
where and how can we draw the line ?
in my part of the world , too many people live below the poverty line .
and in some areas , the commercial gifting of an organ in exchange for monetary reward has led to a flourishing trade in living , unrelated donors .
shortly after i performed the first liver transplant , i received my next assignment , and that was to go to the prisons to harvest organs from executed prisoners .
i was also pregnant at the time .
pregnancies are meant to be happy and fulfilling moments in any woman 's life .
but my joyful period was marred by solemn and morbid thoughts -- thoughts of walking through the prison 's high-security death row , as this was the only route to take me to the makeshift operating room .
and at each time , i would feel the chilling stares of condemned prisoners ' eyes follow me .
and for two years , i struggled with the dilemma of waking up at 4 : 30 am on a friday morning , driving to the prison , getting down , gloved and scrubbed , ready to receive the body of an executed prisoner , remove the organs and then transport these organs to the recipient hospital and then graft the gift of life to a recipient the same afternoon .
no doubt , i was informed , the consent had been obtained .
but , in my life , the one fulfilling skill that i had was now invoking feelings of conflict -- conflict ranging from extreme sorrow and doubt at dawn to celebratory joy at engrafting the gift of life at dusk .
in my team , the lives of one or two of my colleagues were tainted by this experience .
some of us may have been sublimated , but really none of us remained the same .
i was troubled that the retrieval of organs from executed prisoners was at least as morally controversial as the harvesting of stem cells from human embryos .
and in my mind , i realized as a surgical pioneer that the purpose of my position of influence was surely to speak up for those who have no influence .
it made me wonder if there could be a better way -- a way to circumvent death and yet deliver the gift of life that might exponentially impact millions of patients worldwide .
now just about that time , the practice of surgery evolved from big to small , from wide open incisions to keyhole procedures , tiny incisions .
and in transplantation , concepts shifted from whole organs to cells .
in 1988 , at the university of minnesota , i participated in a small series of whole organ pancreas transplants .
i witnessed the technical difficulty .
and this inspired in my mind a shift from transplanting whole organs to perhaps transplanting cells .
i thought to myself , why not take the individual cells out of the pancreas -- the cells that secrete insulin to cure diabetes -- and transplant these cells ? -- technically a much simpler procedure than having to grapple with the complexities of transplanting a whole organ .
and at that time , stem cell research had gained momentum , following the isolation of the world 's first human embryonic stem cells in the 1990s .
the observation that stem cells , as master cells , could give rise to a whole variety of different cell types -- heart cells , liver cells , pancreatic islet cells -- captured the attention of the media and the imagination of the public .
i too was fascinated by this new and disruptive cell technology , and this inspired a shift in my mindset , from transplanting whole organs to transplanting cells .
and i focused my research on stem cells as a possible source for cell transplants .
today we realize that there are many different types of stem cells .
embryonic stem cells have occupied center stage , chiefly because of their pluripotency -- that is their ease in differentiating into a variety of different cell types .
but the moral controversy surrounding embryonic stem cells -- the fact that these cells are derived from five-day old human embryos -- has encouraged research into other types of stem cells .
now to the ridicule of my colleagues , i inspired my lab to focus on what i thought was the most non-controversial source of stem cells , adipose tissue , or fat , yes fat -- nowadays available in abundant supply -- you and i , i think , would be very happy to get rid of anyway .
fat-derived stem cells are adult stem cells .
and adult stem cells are found in you and me -- in our blood , in our bone marrow , in our fat , our skin and other organs .
and as it turns out , fat is one of the best sources of adult stem cells .
but adult stem cells are not embryonic stem cells .
and here is the limitation : adult stem cells are mature cells , and , like mature human beings , these cells are more restricted in their thought and more restricted in their behavior and are unable to give rise to the wide variety of specialized cell types , as embryonic stem cells [ can ] .
but in 2007 , two remarkable individuals , shinya yamanaka of japan and jamie thomson of the united states , made an astounding discovery .
they discovered that adult cells , taken from you and me , could be reprogrammed back into embryonic-like cells , which they termed ips cells , or induced pluripotent stem cells .
and so guess what , scientists around the world and in the labs are racing to convert aging adult cells -- aging adult cells from you and me -- they are racing to reprogram these cells back into more useful ips cells .
and in our lab , we are focused on taking fat and reprogramming mounds of fat into fountains of youthful cells -- cells that we may use to then form other , more specialized , cells , which one day may be used as cell transplants .
if this research is successful , it may then reduce the need to research and sacrifice human embryos .
indeed , there is a lot of hype , but also hope that the promise of stem cells will one day provide cures for a whole range of conditions .
heart disease , stroke , diabetes , spinal cord injury , muscular dystrophy , retinal eye diseases -- are any of these conditions relevant , personally , to you ?
in may 2006 , something horrible happened to me .
i was about to start a robotic operation , but stepping out of the elevator into the bright and glaring lights of the operating room , i realized that my left visual field was fast collapsing into darkness .
earlier that week , i had taken a rather hard knock during late spring skiing -- yes , i fell .
and i started to see floaters and stars , which i casually dismissed as too much high-altitude sun exposure .
what happened to me might have been catastrophic , if not for the fact that i was in reach of good surgical access .
and i had my vision restored , but not before a prolonged period of convalescence -- three months -- in a head down position .
this experience taught me to empathize more with my patients , and especially those with retinal diseases .
37 million people worldwide are blind , and 127 million more suffer from impaired vision .
stem cell-derived retinal transplants , now in a research phase , may one day restore vision , or part vision , to millions of patients with retinal diseases worldwide .
indeed , we live in both challenging as well as exciting times .
as the world population ages , scientists are racing to discover new ways to enhance the power of the body to heal itself through stem cells .
it is a fact that when our organs or tissues are injured , our bone marrow releases stem cells into our circulation .
and these stem cells then float in the bloodstream and hone in to damaged organs to release growth factors to repair the damaged tissue .
stem cells may be used as building blocks to repair damaged scaffolds within our body , or to provide new liver cells to repair damaged liver .
as we speak , there are 117 or so clinical trials researching the use of stem cells for liver diseases .
what lies ahead ?
heart disease is the leading cause of death worldwide .
1.1 million americans suffer heart attacks yearly .
4.8 million suffer cardiac failure .
stem cells may be used to deliver growth factors to repair damaged heart muscle or be differentiated into heart muscle cells to restore heart function .
there are 170 clinical trials investigating the role of stem cells in heart disease .
while still in a research phase , stem cells may one day herald a quantum leap in the field of cardiology .
stem cells provide hope for new beginnings -- small , incremental steps , cells rather than organs , repair rather than replacement .
stem cell therapies may one day reduce the need for donor organs .
powerful new technologies always present enigmas .
as we speak , the world 's first human embryonic stem cell trial for spinal cord injury is currently underway following the usfda approval .
and in the u.k. , neural stem cells to treat stroke are being investigated in a phase one trial .
the research success that we celebrate today has been made possible by the curiosity and contribution and commitment of individual scientists and medical pioneers .
each one has his story .
my story has been about my journey from organs to cells -- a journey through controversy , inspired by hope -- hope that , as we age , you and i may one day celebrate longevity with an improved quality of life .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / astonishing _ performance _ by _ a _ venezuelan _ youth _ orchestra _ 1.html
the teresa carreno youth orchestra contains the best high school musicians from venezuela 's life-changing music program , el sistema . led here by gustavo dudamel , they play shostakovich 's symphony no. 10 , 2nd movement , and arturo marquez ' danzon no. 2 .
ted prize , ted2009 , arts , children , culture , education , entertainment , music
466
gustavo dudamel leads el sistema 's top youth orchestra
chris anderson : and now we go live to caracas to see one of maestro abreu 's great proteges .
he is the new musical director of the los angeles philharmonic orchestra .
he 's the greatest young conductor in the world . gustavo dudamel !
gustavo dudamel : hi everybody in l.a .
hi quincy . hi maestro zander . hi mark .
we are very happy to have the possibility to be with you
in the other side of the world .
we can speak only with music .
we are very happy because we have the opportunity to have this angel in the world --
not only in our country , venezuela ,
but in our world .
he has given us the possibility
to have dreams and to make true the dreams .
and here are the results of this wonderful project that is the system in venezuela .
we hope to have , our maestro , to have orchestras in all the countries in all americas .
and we want to play a little piece for you by one of the most important composers
of america .
a mexican composer : arturo marquez .
" danzon no. 2 . "
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jenna _ mccarthy _ what _ you _ don _ t _ know _ about _ marriage.html
in this funny , casual talk from tedx , writer jenna mccarthy shares surprising research on how marriages really work . one tip : do not try to win an oscar for best actress .
culture , humor , love , relationships , sex
1357
jenna mccarthy : what you don 't know about marriage
every year in the united states alone , 2,077,000 couples make a legal and spiritual decision to spend the rest of their lives together ...
and not to have sex with anyone else , ever .
he buys a ring , she buys a dress .
they go shopping for all sorts of things .
she takes him to arthur murray for ballroom dancing lessons .
and the big day comes .
and they 'll stand before god and family and some guy her dad once did business with , and they 'll vow that nothing , not abject poverty , not life-threatening illness , not complete and utter misery will ever put the tiniest damper on their eternal love and devotion .
these optimistic young bastards promise to honor and cherish each other through hot flashes and mid-life crises and a cumulative 50-lb. weight gain , until that far-off day when one of them is finally able to rest in peace .
you know , because they can 't hear the snoring anymore .
and then they 'll get stupid drunk and smash cake in each others ' faces and do the " macarena , " and we 'll be there showering them with towels and toasters and drinking their free booze and throwing birdseed at them every single time -- even though we know , statistically , half of them will be divorced within a decade .
of course , the other half won 't , right ?
they 'll keep forgetting anniversaries and arguing about where to spend holidays and debating which way the toilet paper should come off of the roll .
and some of them will even still be enjoying each others ' company when neither of them can chew solid food anymore .
and researchers want to know why .
i mean , look , it doesn 't take a double-blind , placebo-controlled study to figure out what makes a marriage not work .
disrespect , boredom , too much time on facebook , having sex with other people .
but you can have the exact opposite of all of those things -- respect , excitement , a broken internet connection , mind-numbing monogamy -- and the thing still can go to hell in a hand basket .
so what 's going on when it doesn 't ?
what do the folks who make it all the way to side-by-side burial plots have in common ?
what are they doing right ?
what can we learn from them ?
and if you 're still happily sleeping solo , why should you stop what you 're doing and make it your life 's work to find that one special person that you can annoy for the rest of your life ?
well researchers spend billions of your tax dollars trying to figure that out .
they stalk blissful couples and they study their every move and mannerism .
and they try to pinpoint what it is that sets them apart from their miserable neighbors and friends .
and it turns out , the success stories share a few similarities , actually , beyond they don 't have sex with other people .
for instance , in the happiest marriages , the wife is thinner and better looking than the husband .
obvious , right .
it 's obvious that this leads to marital bliss because , women , we care a great deal about being thin and good looking , whereas men mostly care about sex ...
ideally with women who are thinner and better looking than they are .
the beauty of this research though is that no one is suggesting that women have to be thin to be happy ; we just have to be thinner than our partners .
so instead of all that laborious dieting and exercising , we just need to wait for them to get fat , maybe bake a few pies .
this is good information to have , and it 's not that complicated .
research also suggests that the happiest couples are the ones that focus on the positives .
for example , the happy wife .
instead of pointing out her husband 's growing gut or suggesting he go for a run , she might say , " wow , honey , thank you for going out of your way to make me relatively thinner . " these are couples who can find good in any situation .
" yeah , it was devastating when we lost everything in that fire , but it 's kind of nice sleeping out here under the stars , and it 's a good thing you 've got all that body fat to keep us warm . " one of my favorite studies found that the more willing a husband is to do house work , the more attractive his wife will find him .
because we needed a study to tell us this .
but here 's what 's going on here .
the more attractive she finds him , the more sex they have ; the more sex they have , the nicer he is to her ; the nicer he is to her , the less she nags him about leaving wet towels on the bed -- and ultimately , they live happily ever after .
in other words , men , you might want to pick it up a notch in the domestic department .
here 's an interesting one .
one study found that people who smile in childhood photographs are less likely to get a divorce .
this is an actual study , and let me clarify .
the researchers were not looking at documented self-reports of childhood happiness or even studying old journals .
the data were based entirely on whether people looked happy in these early pictures .
now i don 't know how old all of you are , but when i was a kid , your parents took pictures with a special kind of camera that held something called film , and , by god , film was expensive .
they didn 't take 300 shots of you in that rapid-fire digital video mode and then pick out the nicest , smileyest one for the christmas card .
oh no .
they dressed you up , they lined you up , and you smiled for the fucking camera like they told you to or you could kiss your birthday party goodbye .
but still , i have a huge pile of fake happy childhood pictures and i 'm glad they make me less likely than some people to get a divorce .
so what else can you do to safeguard your marriage ?
do not win an oscar for best actress .
i 'm serious .
bettie davis , joan crawford , hallie berry , hillary swank , sandra bullock , reese witherspoon , all of them single soon after taking home that statue .
they actually call it the oscar curse .
it is the marriage kiss of death and something that should be avoided .
and it 's not just successfully starring in films that 's dangerous .
it turns out , merely watching a romantic comedy causes relationship satisfaction to plummet .
apparently , the bitter realization that maybe it could happen to us , but it obviously hasn 't and it probably never will , makes our lives seem unbearably grim in comparison .
and theoretically , i suppose if we opt for a film where someone gets brutally murdered or dies in a fiery car crash , we are more likely to walk out of that theater feeling like we 've got it pretty good .
drinking alcohol , it seems , is bad for your marriage .
yeah .
i can 't tell you anymore about that one because i stopped reading it at the headline .
but here 's a scary one : divorce is contagious .
that 's right -- when you have a close couple friend split up , it increases your chances of getting a divorce by 75 percent .
now i have to say , i don 't get this one at all .
my husband and i have watched quite a few friends divide their assets and then struggle with being our age and single in an age of sexting and viagra and eharmony .
and i 'm thinking they 've done more for my marriage than a lifetime of therapy ever could .
so now you may be wondering , why does anyone get married ever ?
well the u.s. federal government counts more than a thousand legal benefits to being someone 's spouse -- a list that includes visitation rights in jail , but hopefully you 'll never need that one .
but beyond the profound federal perks , married people make more money .
we 're healthier , physically and emotionally .
we produce happier , more stable and more successful kids .
we have more sex than our supposedly swinging single friends -- believe it or not .
we even live longer , which is a pretty compelling argument for marrying someone you like a lot in the first place .
now if you 're not currently experiencing the joy of the joint tax return , i can 't tell you how to find a chore-loving person of the approximately ideal size and attractiveness who prefers horror movies and doesn 't have a lot of friends hovering on the brink of divorce , but i can only encourage you to try , because the benefits , as i 've pointed out , are significant .
the bottom line is , whether you 're in it or you 're searching for it , i believe marriage is an institution worth pursuing and protecting .
so i hope you 'll use the information i 've given you today to weigh your personal strengths against your own risk factors .
for instance , in my marriage , i 'd say i 'm doing okay .
one the one hand , i have a husband who 's annoyingly lean and incredibly handsome .
so i 'm obviously going to need fatten him up .
and like i said , we have those divorced friends who may secretly or subconsciously be trying to break us up .
so we have to keep an eye on that .
and we do like a cocktail or two .
on the other hand , i have the fake happy picture thing .
and also , my husband does a lot around the house , and would happily never see another romantic comedy as long as he lives .
so i 've got all those things going for me .
but just in case , i plan to work extra hard to not win an oscar anytime soon .
and for the good of your relationships , i would encourage you to do the same .
i 'll see you at the bar .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / gero _ miesenboeck.html
in the quest to map the brain , many scientists have attempted the incredibly daunting task of recording the activity of each neuron . gero miesenboeck works backward -- manipulating specific neurons to figure out exactly what they do , through a series of stunning experiments that reengineer the way fruit flies percieve light .
biology , brain , neurology , science
1000
gero miesenboeck reengineers a brain
i have a doppelganger .
dr. gero is a brilliant but slightly mad scientist in the " dragonball z : android saga . "
if you look very carefully , you see that his skull has been replaced with a transparent plexiglas dome so that the workings of his brain can be observed and also controlled with light .
that 's exactly what i do -- optical mind control .
but in contrast to my evil twin who lusts after world domination , my motives are not sinister .
i control the brain in order to understand how it works .
now wait a minute , you may say , how can you go straight to controlling the brain without understanding it first ?
isn 't that putting the cart before the horse ?
many neuroscientists agree with this view and think that understanding will come from more detailed observation and analysis .
they say , " if we could record the activity of our neurons , we would understand the brain . "
but think for a moment what that means .
even if we could measure what every cell is doing at all times , we would still have to make sense of the recorded activity patterns , and that 's so difficult , chances are we 'll understand these patterns just as little as the brains that produce them .
take a look at what brain activity might look like .
in this simulation , each black dot is one nerve cell .
the dot is visible whenever a cell fires an electrical impulse .
there 's 10,000 neurons here .
so you 're looking at roughly one percent of the brain of a cockroach .
your brains are about 100 million times more complicated .
somewhere , in a pattern like this , is you , your perceptions , your emotions , your memories , your plans for the future .
but we don 't know where , since we don 't know how to read the pattern .
we don 't understand the code used by the brain .
to make progress , we need to break the code .
but how ?
an experienced code-breaker will tell you that in order to figure out what the symbols in a code mean , it 's essential to be able to play with them , to rearrange them at will .
so in this situation too , to decode the information contained in patterns like this , watching alone won 't do . we need to rearrange the pattern .
in other words , instead of recording the activity of neurons , we need to control it .
it 's not essential that we can control the activity of all neurons in the brain , just some .
the more targeted our interventions , the better .
and i 'll show you in a moment how we can achieve the necessary precision .
and since i 'm realistic , rather than grandiose , i don 't claim that the ability to control the function of the nervous system will at once unravel all its mysteries .
but we 'll certainly learn a lot .
now , i 'm by no means the first person to realize how powerful a tool intervention is .
the history of attempts to tinker with the function of the nervous system is long and illustrious .
it dates back at least 200 years , to galvani 's famous experiments in the late 18th century and beyond .
galvani showed that a frog 's legs twitched when he connected the lumbar nerve to a source of electrical current .
this experiment revealed the first , and perhaps most fundamental , nugget of the neural code : that information is written in the form of electrical impulses .
galvani 's approach of probing the nervous system with electrodes has remained state-of-the-art until today , despite a number of drawbacks .
sticking wires into the brain is obviously rather crude .
it 's hard to do in animals that run around , and there is a physical limit to the number of wires that can be inserted simultaneously .
so around the turn of the last century , i started to think , " wouldn 't it be wonderful if one could take this logic and turn it upside down ? "
so instead of inserting a wire into one spot of the brain , re-engineer the brain itself so that some of its neural elements become responsive to diffusely broadcast signals such as a flash of light .
such an approach would literally , in a flash of light , overcome many of the obstacles to discovery .
first , it 's clearly a non-invasive , wireless form of communication .
and second , just as in a radio broadcast , you can communicate with many receivers at once .
you don 't need to know where these receivers are ,
and it doesn 't matter if these receivers move -- just think of the stereo in your car .
it gets even better , for it turns out that we can fabricate the receivers out of materials that are encoded in dna .
so each nerve cell with the right genetic makeup will spontaneously produce a receiver that allows us to control its function .
i hope you 'll appreciate the beautiful simplicity of this concept .
there 's no high-tech gizmos here , just biology revealed through biology .
now let 's take a look at these miraculous receivers up close .
as we zoom in on one of these purple neurons , we see that its outer membrane is studded with microscopic pores .
pores like these conduct electrical current and are responsible for all the communication in the nervous system .
but these pores here are special .
they are coupled to light receptors similar to the ones in your eyes .
whenever a flash of light hits the receptor , the pore opens , an electrical current is switched on , and the neuron fires electrical impulses .
because the light-activated pore is encoded in dna , we can achieve incredible precision .
this is because , although each cell in our bodies contains the same set of genes , different mixes of genes get turned on and off in different cells .
you can exploit this to make sure that only some neurons contain our light-activated pore and others don 't .
so in this cartoon , the bluish white cell in the upper-left corner does not respond to light because it lacks the light-activated pore .
the approach works so well that we can write purely artificial messages directly to the brain .
in this example , each electrical impulse , each deflection on the trace , is caused by a brief pulse of light .
and the approach , of course , also works in moving , behaving animals .
this is the first ever such experiment , sort of the optical equivalent of galvani 's .
it was done six or seven years ago by my then graduate student , susana lima .
susana had engineered the fruit fly on the left so that just two out of the 200,000 cells in its brain expressed the light-activated pore .
you 're familiar with these cells because they are the ones that frustrate you when you try to swat the fly .
they trained the escape reflex that makes the fly jump into the air
and fly away whenever you move your hand in position .
and you can see here that the flash of light has exactly the same effect .
the animal jumps , it spreads its wings , it vibrates them , but it can 't actually take off because the fly is sandwiched between two glass plates .
now to make sure that this was no reaction of the fly to a flash it could see , susana did a simple but brutally effective experiment .
she cut the heads off of her flies .
these headless bodies can live for about a day , but they don 't do much .
they just stand around and groom excessively .
so it seems that the only trait that survives decapitation is vanity .
anyway , as you 'll see in a moment , susana was able to turn on the flight motor of what 's the equivalent of the spinal cord of these flies and get some of the headless bodies to actually take off and fly away .
they didn 't get very far , obviously .
since we took these first steps , the field of optogenetics has exploded .
and there are now hundreds of labs using these approaches .
and we 've come a long way since galvani 's and susana 's first successes in making animals twitch or jump .
we can now actually interfere with their psychology in rather profound ways , as i 'll show you in my last example , which is directed at a familiar question .
life is a string of choices creating a constant pressure to decide what to do next .
we cope with this pressure by having brains , and within our brains , decision-making centers that i 've called here the " actor . "
the actor implements a policy that takes into account the state of the environment and the context in which we operate .
our actions change the environment , or context , and these changes are then fed back into the decision loop .
now to put some neurobiological meat on this abstract model , we constructed a simple one-dimensional world for our favorite subject , fruit flies .
each chamber in these two vertical stacks contains one fly .
the left and the right halves of the chamber are filled with two different odors , and a security camera watches as the flies pace up and down between them .
here 's some such cctv footage .
whenever a fly reaches the midpoint of the chamber where the two odor streams meet , it has to make a decision .
it has to decide whether to turn around and stay in the same odor , or whether to cross the midline and try something new .
these decisions are clearly a reflection of the actor 's policy .
now for an intelligent being like our fly , this policy is not written in stone but rather changes as the animal learns from experience .
we can incorporate such an element of adaptive intelligence into our model by assuming that the fly 's brain contains not only an actor , but a different group of cells , a " critic , " that provides a running commentary on the actor 's choices .
you can think of this nagging inner voice as sort of the brain 's equivalent of the catholic church , if you 're an austrian like me , or the super-ego , if you 're freudian , or your mother , if you 're jewish .
now obviously , the critic is a key ingredient in what makes us intelligent .
so we set out to identify the cells in the fly 's brain that played the role of the critic .
and the logic of our experiment was simple .
we thought if we could use our optical remote control to activate the cells of the critic , we should be able , artificially , to nag the actor into changing its policy .
in other words , the fly should learn from mistakes that it thought it had made but , in reality , it had not made .
so we bred flies whose brains were more or less randomly peppered with cells that were light addressable .
and then we took these flies and allowed them to make choices .
and whenever they made one of the two choices , chose one odor , in this case the blue one over the orange one , we switched on the lights .
if the critic was among the optically activated cells , the result of this intervention should be a change in policy .
the fly should learn to avoid the optically reinforced odor .
here 's what happened in two instances :
we 're comparing two strains of flies , each of them having about 100 light-addressable cells in their brains , shown here in green on the left and on the right .
what 's common among these groups of cells is that they all produce the neurotransmitter dopamine .
but the identities of the individual dopamine-producing neurons are clearly largely different on the left and on the right .
optically activating these hundred or so cells into two strains of flies has dramatically different consequences .
if you look first at the behavior of the fly on the right , you can see that whenever it reaches the midpoint of the chamber where the two odors meet , it marches straight through , as it did before .
its behavior is completely unchanged .
but the behavior of the fly on the left is very different .
whenever it comes up to the midpoint , it pauses , it carefully scans the odor interface as if it was sniffing out its environment , and then it turns around .
this means that the policy that the actor implements now includes an instruction to avoid the odor that 's in the right half of the chamber .
this means that the critic must have spoken in that animal , and that the critic must be contained among the dopamine-producing neurons on the left , but not among the dopamine producing neurons on the right .
through many such experiments , we were able to narrow down the identity of the critic to just 12 cells .
these 12 cells , as shown here in green , send the output to a brain structure called the " mushroom body , " which is shown here in gray .
we know from our formal model that the brain structure at the receiving end of the critic 's commentary is the actor .
so this anatomy suggests that the mushroom bodies have something to do with action choice .
based on everything we know about the mushroom bodies , this makes perfect sense .
in fact , it makes so much sense that we can construct an electronic toy circuit that simulates the behavior of the fly .
in this electronic toy circuit , the mushroom body neurons are symbolized by the vertical bank of blue leds in the center of the board .
these led 's are wired to sensors that detect the presence of odorous molecules in the air .
each odor activates a different combination of sensors , which in turn activates a different odor detector in the mushroom body .
so the pilot in the cockpit of the fly , the actor , can tell which odor is present simply by looking at which of the blue leds lights up .
what the actor does with this information depends on its policy , which is stored in the strengths of the connection , between the odor detectors and the motors that power the fly 's evasive actions .
if the connection is weak , the motors will stay off and the fly will continue straight on its course .
if the connection is strong , the motors will turn on and the fly will initiate a turn .
now consider a situation in which the motors stay off , the fly continues on its path and it suffers some painful consequence such as getting zapped .
in a situation like this , we would expect the critic to speak up and to tell the actor to change its policy .
we have created such a situation , artificially , by turning on the critic with a flash of light .
that caused a strengthening of the connections between the currently active odor detector and the motors .
so the next time the fly finds itself facing the same odor again , the connection is strong enough to turn on the motors and to trigger an evasive maneuver .
i don 't know about you , but i find it exhilarating to see how vague psychological notions evaporate and give rise to a physical , mechanistic understanding of the mind , even if it 's the mind of the fly .
this is one piece of good news .
the other piece of good news , for a scientist at least , is that much remains to be discovered .
in the experiments i told you about , we have lifted the identity of the critic , but we still have no idea how the critic does its job .
come to think of it , knowing when you 're wrong without a teacher , or your mother , telling you , is a very hard problem .
there are some ideas in computer science and in artificial intelligence as to how this might be done , but we still haven 't solved a single example of how intelligent behavior springs from the physical interactions in living matter .
i think we 'll get there in the not too distant future .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / robert _ full _ learning _ from _ the _ gecko _ s _ tail.html
biologist robert full studies the amazing gecko , with its supersticky feet and tenacious climbing skill . but high-speed footage reveals that the gecko 's tail harbors perhaps the most surprising talents of all .
animals , biology , biomechanics , design , materials , robots , technology
571
robert full : learning from the gecko 's tail
let me share with you today an original discovery .
but i want to tell it to you the way it really happened --
not the way i present it in a scientific meeting , or the way you 'd read it in a scientific paper .
it 's a story about beyond biomimetics , to something i 'm calling biomutualism .
i define that as an association between biology and another discipline ,
where each discipline reciprocally advances the other , but where the collective discoveries that emerge are beyond any single field .
now , in terms of biomimetics , as human technologies take on more of the characteristics of nature , nature becomes a much more useful teacher .
engineering can be inspired by biology by using its principles and analogies when they 're advantageous ,
but then integrating that with the best human engineering , ultimately to make something actually better than nature .
now , being a biologist , i was very curious about this .
these are gecko toes .
and we wondered how they use these bizarre toes to climb up a wall so quickly .
we discovered it . and what we found was that they have leaf-like structures on their toes , with millions of tiny hairs that look like a rug ,
and each of those hairs has the worst case of split-ends possible : about 100 to 1000 split ends that are nano-size .
and the individual has 2 billion of these nano-size split ends .
they don 't stick by velcro or suction or glue . they actually stick by intermolecular forces alone , van der waals forces .
and i 'm really pleased to report to you today that the first synthetic self-cleaning , dry adhesive has been made .
from the simplest version in nature , one branch ,
my engineering collaborator , ron fearing , at berkeley , had made the first synthetic version .
and so has my other incredible collaborator , mark cutkosky , at stanford --
he made much larger hairs than the gecko , but used the same general principles .
and here is its first test .
that 's kellar autumn , my former ph.d. student , professor now at lewis and clark , literally giving his first-born child up for this test .
more recently , this happened .
man : this the first time someone has actually climbed with it .
narrator : lynn verinsky , a professional climber , who appeared to be brimming with confidence .
lynn verinsky : honestly , it 's going to be perfectly safe . it will be perfectly safe .
man : how do you know ?
lynn verinsky : because of liability insurance .
narrator : with a mattress below and attached to a safety rope , lynn began her 60-foot ascent .
lynn made it to the top in a perfect pairing of hollywood and science .
man : so you 're the first human being to officially emulate a gecko .
lynn verinsky : ha ! wow . and what a privilege that has been .
robert full : that 's what she did on rough surfaces .
but she actually used these on smooth surfaces -- two of them -- to climb up , and pull herself up .
and you can try this in the lobby , and look at the gecko-inspired material .
now the problem with the robots doing this is that they can 't get unstuck , with the material .
this is the gecko 's solution . they actually peel their toes away from the surface , at high rates , as they run up the wall .
well i 'm really excited today to show you the newest version of a robot , stickybot , using a new hierarchical dry adhesive .
here is the actual robot .
and here is what it does .
and if you look , you can see that it uses the toe peeling , just like the gecko does .
if we can show some of the video , you can see it climbing up the wall .
there it is .
and now it can go on other surfaces because of the new adhesive that the stanford group was able to do in designing this incredible robot .
oh . one thing i want to point out is , look at stickybot .
you see something on it . it 's not just to look like a gecko .
it has a tail . and just when you think you 've figured out nature , this kind of thing happens .
the engineers told us , for the climbing robots , that , if they don 't have a tail , they fall off the wall .
so what they did was they asked us an important question .
they said , " well , it kind of looks like a tail . "
even though we put a passive bar there .
" do animals use their tails when they climb up walls ? "
what they were doing was returning the favor , by giving us a hypothesis to test , in biology , that we wouldn 't have thought of .
so of course , in reality , we were then panicked , being the biologists , and we should know this already .
we said , " well , what do tails do ? "
well we know that tails store fat , for example .
we know that you can grab onto things with them .
and perhaps it is most well known that they provide static balance .
it can also act as a counterbalance .
so watch this kangaroo .
see that tail ? that 's incredible !
marc raibert built a uniroo hopping robot .
and it was unstable without its tail .
now mostly tails limit maneuverability ,
like this human inside this dinosaur suit .
my colleagues actually went on to test this limitation , by increasing the moment of inertia of a student , so they had a tail , and running them through and obstacle course , and found a decrement in performance ,
like you 'd predict .
but of course , this is a passive tail .
and you can also have active tails .
and when i went back to research this , i realized that one of the great ted moments in the past , from nathan , we 've talked about an active tail .
video : myhrvold thinks tail-cracking dinosaurs were interested in love , not war .
robert full : he talked about the tail being a whip for communication .
it can also be used in defense .
pretty powerful .
so we then went back and looked at the animal .
and we ran it up a surface .
but this time what we did is we put a slippery patch that you see in yellow there .
and watch on the right what the animal is doing with its tail when it slips . this is slowed down 10 times .
so here is normal speed .
and watch it now slip , and see what it does with its tail .
it has an active tail that functions as a fifth leg ,
and it contributes to stability .
if you make it slip a huge amount , this is what we discovered .
this is incredible .
the engineers had a really good idea .
and then of course we wondered , okay , they have an active tail , but let 's picture them .
they 're climbing up a wall , or a tree .
and they get to the top and let 's say there 's some leaves there .
and what would happen if they climbed on the underside of that leaf , and there was some wind , or we shook it ?
and we did that experiment , that you see here .
and this is what we discovered .
now that 's real time . you can 't see anything .
but there it is slowed down .
what we discovered was the world 's fastest air-righting response .
for those of you who remember your physics , that 's a zero-angular-momentum righting response . but it 's like a cat .
you know , cats falling . cats do this . they twist their bodies .
but geckos do it better .
and they do it with their tail .
so they do it with this active tail as they swing around .
and then they always land in the sort of superman skydiving posture .
okay , now we wondered , if we were right , we should be able to test this in a physical model , in a robot .
so for ted we actually built a robot , over there , a prototype , with the tail .
and we 're going to attempt the first air-righting response in a tail , with a robot .
if we could have the lights on it .
okay , there it goes .
and show the video .
there it is .
and it works just like it does in the animal .
so all you need is a swing of the tail to right yourself .
now , of course , we were normally frightened because the animal has no gliding adaptations , so we thought , " oh that 's okay . we 'll put it in a vertical wind tunnel .
we 'll blow the air up , we 'll give it a landing target , a tree trunk , just outside the plexi-glass enclosure , and see what it does .
so we did . and here is what it does .
so the wind is coming from the bottom . this is slowed down 10 times .
it does an equilibrium glide . highly controlled .
this is sort of incredible . but actually it 's quite beautiful , when you take a picture of it .
and it 's better than that , it -- just in the slide -- maneuvers in mid-air .
and the way it does it , is it takes its tail and it swings it one way to yaw left , and it swings its other way to yaw right .
so we can maneuver this way .
and then -- we had to film this several times to believe this -- it also does this . watch this .
it oscillates its tail up and down like a dolphin .
it can actually swim through the air .
but watch its front legs . can you see what they are doing ?
what does that mean for the origin of flapping flight ?
maybe it 's evolved from coming down from trees , and trying to control a glide . stay tuned for that .
so then we wondered , " can they actually maneuver with this ? "
so there is the landing target . could they steer towards it with these capabilities ? here it is in the wind tunnel .
and it certainly looks like it .
you can see it even better from down on top .
watch the animal .
definitely moving towards the landing target .
watch the whip of its tail as it does it . look at that .
it 's unbelievable .
so now we were really confused ,
because there are no reports of it gliding .
so we went , " oh my god , we have to go to the field , and see if it actually does this . "
completely opposite of the way you 'd see it on a nature film , of course .
we wondered , " do they actually glide in nature ? "
well we went to the forests of singapore and southeast asia .
and the next video you see is the first time we 've showed this .
this is the actual video -- not staged , a real research video -- of animal gliding down . there is a red trajectory line .
look at the end to see the animal .
but then as it gets closer to the tree , look at the close-up . and see if you can see it land .
so there it comes down . there is a gecko at the end of that trajectory line .
you see it there ? there ? watch it come down .
now watch up there and you can see the landing . did you see it hit ?
it actually uses its tail too ,
just like we saw in the lab .
so now we can continue this mutualism by suggesting that they can make an active tail .
and here is the first active tail , in the robot , made by boston dynamics .
so to conclude , i think we need to build biomutualisms , like i showed , that will increase the pace of basic discovery in their application .
to do this though , we need to redesign education in a major way , to balance depth with interdisciplinary communication ,
and explicitly train people how to contribute to , and benefit from other disciplines .
and of course you need the organisms and the environment to do it .
that is , whether you care about security , search and rescue or health , we must preserve nature 's designs , otherwise these secrets will be lost forever .
and from what i heard from our new president , i 'm very optimistic . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / rob _ dunbar.html
rob dunbar hunts for data on our climate from 12,000 years ago , finding clues inside ancient seabeds and corals and inside ice sheets . his work is vital in setting baselines for fixing our current climate -- and in tracking the rise of deadly ocean acidification .
mission blue , oceans , science , technology
954
