there was no way to predict how far it would spread through water supplies and how bad the situation would get .
and not knowing where help was needed always ensured that help was in short supply in the areas that needed it most .
we 've gotten good at predicting and preparing for storms before they take innocent lives and cause irreversible damage , but we still can 't do that with water , and here 's why .
right now , if you want to test water in the field , you need a trained technician , expensive equipment like this , and you have to wait about a day for chemical reactions to take place and provide results .
it 's too slow to get a picture of conditions on the ground before they change , too expensive to implement in all the places that require testing .
and it ignores the fact that , in the meanwhile , people still need to drink water .
most of the information that we collected on the cholera outbreak didn 't come from testing water ; it came from forms like this , which documented all the people we failed to help .
countless lives have been saved by canaries in coalmines -- a simple and invaluable way for miners to know whether they 're safe .
i 've been inspired by that simplicity as i 've been working on this problem with some of the most hardworking and brilliant people i 've ever known .
we think there 's a simpler solution to this problem -- one that can be used by people who face conditions like this everyday .
it 's in its early stages , but this is what it looks like right now .
we call it the water canary .
it 's a fast , cheap device that answers an important question : is this water contaminated ?
it doesn 't require any special training .
and instead of waiting for chemical reactions to take place , it uses light .
that means there 's no waiting for chemical reactions to take place , no need to use reagents that can run out and no need to be an expert to get actionable information .
to test water , you simply insert a sample and , within seconds , it either displays a red light , indicating contaminated water , or a green light , indicating the sample is safe .
this will make it possible for anyone to collect life-saving information and to monitor water quality conditions as they unfold .
we 're also , on top of that , integrating wireless networking into an affordable device with gps and gsm .
what that means is that each reading can be automatically transmitted to servers to be mapped in real time .
with enough users , maps like this will make it possible to take preventive action , containing hazards before they turn into emergencies that take years to recover from .
and then , instead of taking days to disseminate this information to the people who need it most , it can happen automatically .
we 've seen how distributed networks , big data and information can transform society .
i think it 's time for us to apply them to water .
our goal over the next year is to get water canary ready for the field and to open-source the hardware so that anyone can contribute to the development and the evaluation , so we can tackle this problem together .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / dan _ dennett _ s _ response _ to _ rick _ warren.html
philosopher dan dennett calls for religion -- all religion -- to be taught in schools , so we can understand its nature as a natural phenomenon . then he takes on the purpose-driven life , disputing its claim that , to be moral , one must deny evolution .
god , atheism , brain , cognitive science , consciousness , evolution , philosophy , religion
94
dan dennett 's response to rick warren
it 's wonderful to be back .
i love this wonderful gathering .
and you must be wondering , " what on earth ?
have they put up the wrong slide ? "
no , no .
look at this magnificent beast and ask the question -- who designed it ?
this is ted .
this is technology , entertainment , design and there 's a dairy cow .
it 's a quite wonderfully designed animal .
and i was thinking , how do i introduce this ?
and i thought , well , maybe that old doggerel by joyce kilmer , you know : " poems are made by fools like me , but only god can make a tree . "
and you might say , " well , god designed the cow . "
but , of course , god got a lot of help .
this is the ancestor of cattle .
this is the oryx .
and it was designed by natural selection , the process of natural selection , over many millions of years .
and then it became domesticated thousands of years ago .
and human beings became its stewards ,
and , without even knowing what they were doing , they gradually redesigned it and redesigned it and redesigned it .
and then , more recently , they really began to do sort of reverse engineering on this beast and figure out just what the parts were , how they worked and how they might be optimized -- how they might be made better .
now why am i talking about cows ?
because i want to say that much the same thing is true of religions .
religions are natural phenomena .
they 're just as natural as cows .
they have evolved over millennia .
they have a biological base , just like the oryx .
they have become domesticated , and human beings have been redesigning their religions for thousands of years .
this is ted , and i want to talk about design .
because what i 've been doing for the last four years , really since the first time you saw me -- some of you saw me at ted when i was talking about religion , and in the last four years i 've been working just about non-stop on this topic .
and you might say it 's about the reverse engineering of religions . now that very idea , i think , strikes terror in many people , or anger , or anxiety of one sort or another .
and that is the spell that i want to break .
i want to say , no , religions are an important natural phenomenon .
we should study them with the same intensity that we study all the other important natural phenomena , like global warming , as we heard so eloquently last night from al gore .
today 's religions are brilliantly designed -- brilliantly designed .
they 're immensely powerful social institutions and many of their features can be traced back to earlier features that we can really make sense of by reverse engineering .
and , as with the cow , there 's a mixture of evolutionary design , designed by natural selection itself , and intelligent design -- more or less intelligent design -- and redesigned by human beings who are trying to redesign their religions .
you don 't do book talks at ted , but i 'm going to have just one slide about my book , because there is one message in it which i think this group really needs to hear .
and i would be very interested to get your responses to this .
it 's the one policy proposal that i make in the book , at this time when i claim not to know enough about religion to know what other policy proposals to make .
and it 's one that echoes remarks that you 've heard already today .
here 's my proposal .
i 'm going to just take a couple of minutes to explain it -- education in world religions , on world religions , for all of our children in primary school , in high school , in public schools , in private schools and in home schooling .
so what i 'm proposing is , just as we require reading , writing , arithmetic , american history , so we should have a curriculum on facts about all the religions of the world -- about their history , about their creeds , about their texts , their music , their symbolisms , their prohibitions , their requirements . and this should be presented factually , straightforwardly , with no particular spin , to all of the children in the country .
and as long as you teach them that , you can teach them anything else you like .
that , i think , is maximal tolerance for religious freedom .
as long as you inform your children about other religions , then you may -- and as early as you like and whatever you like -- teach them whatever creed you want them to learn .
but also let them know about other religions .
now why do i say that ?
because democracy depends on an informed citizenship . informed consent is the very bedrock of our understanding of democracy .
misinformed consent is not worth it .
it 's like a coin flip ; it doesn 't count really .
democracy depends on informed consent .
this is the way we treat people as responsible adults .
now , children below the age of consent are a special case .
i 'm going to use a word that pastor rick just used -- parents are stewards of their children .
they don 't own them .
you can 't own your children .
you have a responsibility to the world , to the state , to them , to take care of them right .
you may teach them whatever creed you think is most important , but i say you have a responsibility to let them be informed about all the other creeds in the world , too .
the reason i 've taken this time is i 've been fascinated to hear some of the reactions to this .
one reviewer for a roman catholic newspaper called it " totalitarian . "
it strikes me as practically libertarian .
is it totalitarian to require reading , writing and arithmetic ?
i don 't think so .
all i 'm saying is -- facts . facts only .
no values , just facts about all the world 's religions .
another reviewer called it " hilarious . "
well , i 'm really bothered by the fact that anybody would think that was hilarious .
it seems to me to be such a plausible , natural extension of the democratic principles we already have , that i 'm shocked to think anybody would find that just ridiculous .
i know many religions are so anxious about preserving the purity of their faith among their children that they are intent on keeping their children ignorant of other faiths .
i don 't think that 's defensible , but i 'd really be pleased to get your answers on that -- any reactions to that -- later .
but now i 'm going to move on .
back to the cow .
this picture , which i pulled off the web -- the fellow on the left is really an important part of this picture .
that 's the steward .
cows couldn 't live without human stewards -- they 're domesticated . they 're a sort of ectosymbiont .
they depend on us for their survival .
and pastor rick was just talking about sheep .
i 'm going to talk about sheep , too .
there 's a lot of serendipitous convergence here .
how clever it was of sheep to acquire shepherds !
think of what this got them .
they could outsource all their problems -- protection from predators , food finding , health maintenance .
the only cost in most flocks is a loss of free mating .
what a deal .
" how clever of sheep ! " you might say .
except , of course , it wasn 't the sheep 's cleverness .
we all know sheep are not exactly rocket scientists -- they 're not very smart .
it wasn 't the cleverness of the sheep at all .
they were clueless .
but it was a very clever move .
whose clever move was it ?
it was a clever move of natural selection itself .
francis crick , the co-discoverer of the structure of dna with jim watson , once joked about what he called orgel 's second rule .
leslie orgel is still a molecular biologist , brilliant guy , and orgel 's second rule is : evolution is cleverer than you are .
now , that is not intelligent design -- not from francis crick .
evolution is cleverer than you are .
if you understand orgel 's second rule , then you understand why the intelligent design movement is basically a hoax .
the designs discovered by the process of natural selection are brilliant , unbelievably brilliant .
again and again biologists are fascinated with the brilliance of what 's discovered .
but the process itself is without purpose ,
without foresight , without design .
when i was here four years ago , i told the story about an ant climbing a blade of grass .
and why was the ant doing it ?
well , it 's because its brain had been infected with a lancet fluke that was -- needed to get into the belly of a sheep or a cow in order to reproduce .
it was sort of a spooky story .
and i think some people may have misunderstood .
lancet flukes aren 't smart .
i submit that the intelligence of a lancet fluke is down there somewhere between petunia and carrot .
they 're not really bright . they don 't have to be .
the lesson we learn from this is you don 't have to have a mind to be a beneficiary .
the design is there in nature , but it 's not in anybody 's head .
it doesn 't have to be .
that 's the way evolution works .
the question -- was domestication good for sheep ?
it was great for their genetic fitness .
and here i want to remind you of a wonderful point that paul maccready made at ted three years ago .
here 's what he said .
10,000 years ago at the dawn of agriculture , human population , plus livestock and pets , was approximately a tenth of one per cent of the terrestrial vertebrae landmass .
that was just 10,000 years ago .
yesterday , in biological terms .
what is it today ? does anybody remember what he told us ?
98 percent .
that is what we have done on this planet .
now , i talked to paul afterwards .
i wanted to check to find out how he 'd calculated this ,
and get the sources and so forth .
and he gave me a paper that he had written on this .
there was a passage in it which he did not present here and i think it is so good i 'm going to read it to you .
" over billions of years on a unique sphere , chance has painted a thin covering of life : complex , improbable , wonderful and fragile . suddenly , we humans , a recently arrived species no longer subject to the checks and balances inherent in nature , have grown in population , technology and intelligence to a position of terrible power .
we now wield the paintbrush . "
we heard about the atmosphere as a thin layer of varnish .
life itself is just a thin coat of paint on this planet .
and we 're the ones that hold the paintbrush .
and how can we do that ?
the key to our domination of the planet is culture ,
and the key to culture is religion .
suppose martian scientists came to earth .
they would be puzzled by many things .
anybody know what this is ?
i 'll tell you what it is .
this is a million people gathering on the banks of the ganges in 2001 , perhaps the largest single gathering of human beings ever , as seen from satellite photograph .
here 's a big crowd .
here 's another crowd in mecca .
martians would be amazed by this .
they 'd want to know how it originated , what it was for and how it perpetuates itself .
actually , i 'm going to pass over this .
the ant isn 't alone .
there 's all sorts of wonderful cases of species .
in that case , a parasite gets into a mouse and it needs to get into the belly of a cat .
and it turns the mouse into mighty mouse -- it makes it fearless , so it runs out in the open , where it 'll be eaten by a cat .
true story .
in other words , we have these hijackers -- you 've seen this slide before , from four years ago -- a parasite that infects the brain and induces even suicidal behavior on behalf of a cause other than one 's own genetic fitness .
does that ever happen to us ?
yes , it does -- quite wonderfully .
the arabic word " islam " means " submission . "
it means " surrender of self-interest to the will of allah . "
but i 'm not just talking about islam .
i 'm talking also about christianity .
this is a parchment music page that i found in a paris bookstall 50 years ago .
and on it it says , in latin : the word of god is the seed and the sower of the seed is christ . "
same idea ! well , not quite .
but in fact , christians , too , glory in the fact that they have surrendered to god .
i 'll give you a few quotes .
" the heart of worship is surrender .
surrendered people obey god 's words , even if it doesn 't make sense . "
those words are by rick warren .
those are from " the purpose driven life . "
and i want to turn now , briefly , to talk about that book , which i 've read .
you 've all got a copy .
you 've just heard the man .
and what i want to do now is say a bit about this book from the design standpoint , because i think it 's actually a brilliant book .
first of all , the goal .
and you heard just now what the goal is .
it 's to bring purpose to the lives of millions , and he has succeeded .
is it a good goal ?
in itself , i 'm sure we all agree , it is a wonderful goal .
he 's absolutely right .
there are lots of people out there who don 't have purpose in their life , and bringing purpose to their life is a wonderful goal .
i give him an a + on this .
is the goal achieved ?
yes .
30 million copies of this book .
al gore , eat your heart out .
just exactly what al is trying to do , rick is doing .
this is a fantastic achievement .
and , the means -- how does he do it ?
it 's a brilliant redesign of traditional religious themes -- updating them , quietly dropping obsolete features , putting new interpretations on other features .
this is the evolution of religion that 's been going on for thousands of years , and he 's just the latest brilliant practitioner of it .
i don 't have to tell you this . you 've just heard the man .
excellent insights into human psychology , wise advice on every page .
moreover , he invites us to look under the hood .
i really appreciated that .
for instance , he has an appendix where he explains his choice of translations of different bible verses .
the book is clear , vivid , accessible , beautifully formatted .
just enough repetition .
that 's really important .
every time you read it or say it , you make another copy in your brain .
every time you read it or say it , you make another copy in your brain .
with me , everybody -- every time you read it or say it , you make another copy in your brain .
thank you .
and now we come to my problem .
because i 'm absolutely sincere in my appreciation of all that i 've said about this book .
but i wish it were better .
i have some problems with the book .
and it would just be insincere of me not to address those problems .
i wish he could do this with a revision , a mark 2 version of his book .
" the truth will set you free " -- that 's what it says in the bible , and it 's something that i want to live by , too .
my problem is , some of the bits in it i don 't think are true .
now some of this is a difference of opinion , and that 's not my main complaint .
that 's worth mentioning .
here 's a passage -- it 's very much what he said , anyway .
" if there was no god we would all be accidents , the result of astronomical random chance in the universe .
you could stop reading this book because life would have no purpose or meaning or significance .
there would be no right or wrong and no hope beyond your brief years on earth . "
now , i just do not believe that .
by the way , i find homer groening 's film presented a beautiful alternative to that very claim .
yes , there is meaning and a reason for right or wrong .
we don 't need a belief in god to be good or to have meaning in us .
but that is just a difference of opinion .
that 's not what i 'm really worried about .
how about this -- " god designed this planet 's environment just so we could live in it . "
i 'm afraid that a lot of people take that sentiment to mean that we don 't have to do the sorts of things that al gore is trying so hard to get us to do .
i 'm not happy with that sentiment at all .
and then i find this -- " all the evidence available in the biological sciences supports the core proposition that the cosmos is especially designed whole with life and mankind as its fundamental goal and purpose , a whole in which all facets of reality have their meaning and explanation in this central fact . "
well , that 's michael denton . he 's a creationist .
and here i think , " wait a minute . "
i read this again .
i read it three or four times and i think , " is he really endorsing intelligent design ?
is he endorsing creationism here ? "
and you can 't tell .
so i 'm sort of thinking , " well , i don 't know , i don 't know if i want to get upset with this yet . "
but then i read on and i read this : " first , noah had never seen rain , because prior to the flood god irrigated the earth from the ground up . "
i wish that sentence weren 't in there , because i think it is false .
and i think that thinking this way about the history of the planet , after we 've just been hearing about the history of the planet over millions of years , discourages people from scientific understanding .
now , rick warren uses scientific terms and scientific factoids and information in a very interesting way .
here 's one : " god deliberately shaped and formed you to serve him in a way that makes your ministry unique .
he carefully mixed the dna cocktail that created you . "
i think that 's false .
now maybe we want to treat it as metaphorical .
here 's another one -- " for instance , your brain can store 100 trillion facts .
your mind can handle 15,000 decisions a second . "
well , it would be interesting to find the interpretation where i would accept that .
there might be some way of treating that as true .
" anthropologists have noted that worship is a universal urge , hardwired by god into the very fiber of our being , an inbuilt need to connect with god . "
well , there 's a sense which i agree with him , except i think it has an evolutionary explanation .
and what i find deeply troubling in this book is that he seems to be arguing that if you want to be moral , if you want to have meaning in your life , you have to be an intelligent designer -- you have to deny the theory of evolution by natural selection .
and i think , on the contrary , that it is very important to solving the world 's problems that we take evolutionary biology seriously .
whose truth are we going to listen to ?
well , this from " the purpose driven life " -- " the bible must become the authoritative standard for my life , the compass i rely on for direction , the counsel i listen to for making wise decisions and the benchmark i use for evaluating everything . "
well maybe , ok , but what 's going to follow from this ?
and here 's one that does concern me .
remember i quoted him before with this line -- " surrendered people obey god 's word , even if it doesn 't make sense . "
and that 's a problem .
" don 't ever argue with the devil .
he 's better at arguing than you are , having had thousands of years to practice . "
now rick warren didn 't invent this clever move .
it 's an old move .
it 's a very clever adaptation of religions .
it 's a wildcard for disarming any reasonable criticism .
" you don 't like my interpretation ?
you 've got a reasonable objection to it ?
don 't listen , don 't listen !
that 's the devil speaking . "
this discourages the sort of reasoning citizenship it seems to me that we want to have .
i 've got one more problem , then i 'm through .
and i 'd really like to get a response if rick is able to do it .
" in the great commission , jesus said , ' go to all people of all nations and make them my disciples . baptize them in the name of the father , the son and the holy spirit , and teach them to do everything i 've told you . ' "
the bible says jesus is the only one who can save the world .
now here we 've seen many wonderful maps of the world in the last day or so .
here 's one , not as beautiful as the others .
it simply shows the religions of the world .
and here 's one that shows the sort of current breakdown of the different religions .
now do we really want to commit ourselves to engulfing all the other religions when their holy books are telling them , " don 't listen to the other side , that 's just satan talking ! "
it seems to me that that 's a very problematic ship to get on for the future .
i found this sign as i was driving to maine recently , in front of a church -- " good without god becomes zero . " sort of cute .
a very clever little meme .
i don 't believe it and i think this idea , popular as it is -- not in this guise but in general -- is itself one of the main problems that we face .
if you are like me , you know many wonderful , committed , engaged atheists , agnostics , who are being very good without god .
and you also know many religious people who hide behind their sanctity instead of doing good works .
so , i wish we could drop this meme .
i wish this meme would go extinct .
thanks very much for your attention .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / julian _ treasure _ shh _ sound _ health _ in _ 8 _ steps.html
julian treasure says our increasingly noisy world is gnawing away at our mental health -- even costing lives . he lays out an 8-step plan to soften this sonic assault and restore our relationship with sound .
design , music , nature , psychology , science
965
julian treasure : shh ! sound health in 8 steps
the hindus say , " nada brahma , " one translation of which is , " the world is sound . "
and in a way , that 's true , because everything is vibrating .
in fact , all of you as you sit here right now are vibrating .
every part of your body is vibrating at different frequencies .
so you are , in fact , a chord -- each of you an individual chord .
one definition of health may be that that chord is in complete harmony .
your ears can 't hear that chord ;
they can actually hear amazing things . your ears can hear 10 octaves .
incidentally , we see just one octave .
your ears are always on -- you have no ear lids .
they work even when you sleep .
the smallest sound you can perceive moves your eardrum just four atomic diameters .
the loudest sound you can hear is a trillion times more powerful than that .
ears are made not for hearing , but for listening .
listening is an active skill ,
whereas hearing is passive , listening is something that we have to work at --
it 's a relationship with sound .
and yet it 's a skill that none of us are taught .
for example , have you ever considered that there are listening positions , places you can listen from ?
here are two of them .
reductive listening is listening " for . "
it reduces everything down to what 's relevant and it discards everything that 's not relevant .
men typically listen reductively .
so he 's saying , " i 've got this problem . "
he 's saying , " here 's your solution . thanks very much . next . "
that 's the way we talk , right guys ?
expansive listening , on the other hand , is listening " with , " not listening " for . "
it 's got no destination in mind --
it 's just enjoying the journey .
women typically listen expansively . if you look at these two , eye contact , facing each other , possibly both talking at the same time .
men , if you get nothing else out of this talk , practice expansive listening ,
and you can transform your relationships .
the trouble with listening is that so much of what we hear is noise , surrounding us all the time .
noise like this , according to the european union , is reducing the health and the quality of life of 25 percent of the population of europe .
two percent of the population of europe -- that 's 16 million people -- are having their sleep devastated by noise like that .
noise kills 200,000 people a year in europe .
it 's a really big problem .
now , when you were little , if you had noise and you didn 't want to hear it , you 'd stick your fingers in your ears and hum .
these days , you can do a similar thing , it just looks a bit cooler .
it looks a bit like this .
the trouble with widespread headphone use is it brings three really big health issues .
the first really big health issue is a word that murray schafer coined : " schizophonia . "
it 's a dislocation between what you see and what you hear .
so , we 're inviting into our lives the voices of people who are not present with us .
i think there 's something deeply unhealthy about living all the time in schizophonia .
the second problem that comes with headphone abuse is compression .
we squash music to fit it into our pocket and there is a cost attached to this .
listen to this -- this is an uncompressed piece of music .
and now the same piece of music with 98 percent of the data removed .
i do hope that some of you at least can hear the difference between those two .
there is a cost of compression .
it makes you tired and irritable to have to make up all of that data .
you 're having to imagine it .
it 's not good for you in the long run .
the third problem with headphones is this : deafness -- noise-induced hearing disorder .
ten million americans already have this for one reason or another , but really worryingly , 16 percent -- roughly one in six -- of american teenagers suffer from noise-induced hearing disorder as a result of headphone abuse .
one study at an american university found that 61 percent of college freshmen had damaged hearing as a result of headphone abuse .
we may be raising an entire generation of deaf people .
now that 's a really serious problem .
i 'll give you three quick tips to protect your ears and pass these on to your children , please .
professional hearing protectors are great ; i use some all the time .
if you 're going to use headphones , buy the best ones you can afford because quality means you don 't have to have it so loud .
if you can 't hear somebody talking to you in a loud voice , it 's too loud .
and thirdly , if you 're in bad sound , it 's fine to put your fingers in your ears or just move away from it .
protect your ears in that way .
let 's move away from bad sound and look at some friends that i urge you to seek out .
wwb : wind , water , birds -- stochastic natural sounds composed of lots of individual random events , all of it very healthy , all of it sound that we evolved to over the years .
seek those sounds out ; they 're good for you and so it this .
silence is beautiful .
the elizabethans described language as decorated silence .
i urge you to move away from silence with intention and to design soundscapes just like works of art .
have a foreground , a background , all in beautiful proportion . it 's fun to get into designing with sound .
if you can 't do it yourself , get a professional to do it for you .
sound design is the future , and i think it 's the way we 're going to change the way the world sounds .
i 'm going to just run quickly through eight modalities , eight ways sound can improve health .
first , ultrasound : we 're very familiar with it from physical therapy ;
it 's also now being used to treat cancer .
lithotripsy -- saving thousands of people a year from the scalpel by pulverizing stones with high-intensity sound .
sound healing is a wonderful modality .
it 's been around for thousands of years .
i do urge you to explore this .
there are great things being done there , treating now autism , dementia and other conditions .
and music , of course . just listening to music is good for you , if it 's music that 's made with good intention , made with love , generally .
devotional music , good -- mozart , good .
there are all sorts of types of music that are very healthy .
and four modalities where you need to take some action and get involved .
first of all , listen consciously .
i hope that that after this talk you 'll be doing that .
it 's a whole new dimension to your life and it 's wonderful to have that dimension .
secondly , get in touch with making some sound --
create sound .
the voice is the instrument we all play , and yet how many of us are trained in using our voice ? get trained ;
learn to sing , learn to play an instrument .
musicians have bigger brains -- it 's true .
you can do this in groups as well .
it 's a fantastic antidote to schizophonia ; to make music and sound in a group of people , whichever style you enjoy particularly .
and let 's take a stewarding role for the sound around us .
protect your ears ? yes , absolutely .
design soundscapes to be beautiful around you at home and at work .
and let 's start to speak up when people are assailing us with the noise that i played you early on .
so i 'm going to leave you with seven things you can do right now to improve your health with sound .
my vision is of a world that sounds beautiful and if we all start doing these things , we will take a very big step in that direction .
so i urge you to take that path .
i 'm leaving you with a little more birdsong , which is very good for you .
i wish you sound health .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / janna _ levin _ the _ sound _ the _ universe _ makes.html
we think of space as a silent place . but physicist janna levin says the universe has a soundtrack -- a sonic composition that records some of the most dramatic events in outer space . an accessible and mind-expanding soundwalk through the universe .
science , universe
1095
janna levin : the sound the universe makes
i want to ask you all to consider for a second the very simple fact that , by far , most of what we know about the universe comes to us from light .
we can stand on the earth and look up at the night sky and see stars with our bare eyes .
the sun burns our peripheral vision . we see light reflected off the moon . and in the time since galileo pointed that rudimentary telescope at the celestial bodies , the known universe has come to us through light , across vast eras in cosmic history .
and with all of our modern telescopes , we 've been able to collect this stunning silent movie of the universe -- these series of snapshots that go all the way back to the big bang .
and yet , the universe is not a silent movie because the universe isn 't silent .
i 'd like to convince you that the universe has a soundtrack and that soundtrack is played on space itself ,
because space can wobble like a drum .
it can ring out a kind of recording throughout the universe of some of the most dramatic events as they unfold .
now we 'd like to be able to add to a kind of glorious visual composition that we have of the universe -- a sonic composition .
and while we 've never heard the sounds from space , we really should , in the next few years , start to turn up the volume on what 's going on out there .
so in this ambition to capture songs from the universe , we turn our focus to black holes and the promise they have , because black holes can bang on space-time like mallets on a drum and have a very characteristic song ,
which i 'd like to play for you -- some of our predictions for what that song will be like .
now black holes are dark against a dark sky .
we can 't see them directly .
they 're not brought to us with light , at least not directly .
we can see them indirectly , because black holes wreak havoc on their environment .
they destroy stars around them .
they churn up debris in their surroundings .
but they won 't come to us directly through light .
we might one day see a shadow a black hole can cast on a very bright background , but we haven 't yet .
and yet black holes may be heard even if they 're not seen , and that 's because they bang on space-time like a drum .
now we owe the idea that space can ring like a drum to albert einstein -- to whom we owe so much .
einstein realized that if space were empty , if the universe were empty , it would be like this picture , except for maybe without the helpful grid drawn on it .
but if we were freely falling through the space , even without this helpful grid , we might be able to paint it ourselves , because we would notice that we traveled along straight lines , undeflected straight paths through the universe .
einstein also realized -- and this is the real meat of the matter -- that if you put energy or mass in the universe , it would curve space ,
and a freely falling object would pass by , let 's say , the sun and it would be deflected along the natural curves in the space .
it was einstein 's great general theory of relativity .
now even light will be bent by those paths .
and you can be bent so much that you 're caught in orbit around the sun , as the earth is , or the moon around the earth .
these are the natural curves in space .
what einstein did not realize was that , if you took our sun and you crushed it down to six kilometers -- so you took a million times the mass of the earth and you crushed it to six kilometers across , you would make a black hole , an object so dense that if light veered too close , it would never escape -- a dark shadow against the universe .
it wasn 't einstein who realized this , it was karl schwarzschild who was a german jew in world war i -- joined the german army already an accomplished scientist , working on the russian front .
i like to imagine schwarzschild in the war in the trenches calculating ballistic trajectories for cannon fire , and then , in between , calculating einstein 's equations -- as you do in the trenches .
and he was reading einstein 's recently published general theory of relativity , and he was thrilled by this theory .
and he quickly surmised an exact mathematical solution that described something very extraordinary : curves so strong that space would rain down into them , space itself would curve like a waterfall flowing down the throat of a hole .
and even light could not escape this current .
light would be dragged down the hole as everything else would be , and all that would be left would be a shadow .
now he wrote to einstein , and he said , " as you will see , the war has been kind to me enough . despite the heavy gunfire ,
i 've been able to get away from it all and walk through the land of your ideas . "
and einstein was very impressed with his exact solution , and i should hope also the dedication of the scientist .
this is the hardworking scientist under harsh conditions .
and he took schwarzschild 's idea to the prussian academy of sciences the next week .
but einstein always thought black holes were a mathematical oddity .
he did not believe they existed in nature .
he thought nature would protect us from their formation .
it was decades before the term " black hole " was coined and people realized that black holes are real astrophysical objects -- in fact they 're the death state of very massive stars that collapse catastrophically at the end of their lifetime .
now our sun will not collapse to a black hole .
it 's actually not massive enough .
but if we did a little thought experiment -- as einstein was very fond of doing -- we could imagine putting the sun crushed down to six kilometers , and putting a tiny little earth around it in orbit , maybe 30 kilometers outside of the black-hole sun .
and it would be self-illuminated , because now the sun 's gone , we have no other source of light -- so let 's make our little earth self-illuminated .
and you would realize you could put the earth in a happy orbit even 30 km outside of this crushed black hole .
this crushed black hole actually would fit inside manhattan , more or less .
it might spill off into the hudson a little bit before it destroyed the earth .
but basically that 's what we 're talking about .
we 're talking about an object that you could crush down to half the square area of manhattan .
so we move this earth very close -- 30 kilometers outside -- and we notice it 's perfectly fine orbiting around the black hole .
there 's a sort of myth that black holes devour everything in the universe , but you actually have to get very close to fall in .
but what 's very impressive is that , from our vantage point , we can always see the earth .
it cannot hide behind the black hole .
the light from the earth , some of it falls in , but some of it gets lensed around and brought back to us .
so you can 't hide anything behind a black hole .
if this were battlestar galactica and you 're fighting the cylons , don 't hide behind the black hole .
they can see you .
now , our sun will not collapse to a black hole -- it 's not massive enough -- but there are tens of thousands of black holes in our galaxy .
and if one were to eclipse the milky way , this is what it would look like .
we would see a shadow of that black hole against the hundred billion stars in the milky way galaxy and its luminous dust lanes .
and if we were to fall towards this black hole , we would see all of that light lensed around it , and we could even start to cross into that shadow and really not notice that anything dramatic had happened .
it would be bad if we tried to fire our rockets and get out of there because we couldn 't , anymore than light can escape .
but even though the black hole is dark from the outside , it 's not dark on the inside , because all of the light from the galaxy can fall in behind us .
and even though , due to a relativistic effect known as time dilation , our clocks would seem to slow down relative to galactic time , it would look as though the evolution of the galaxy had been sped up and shot at us , right before we were crushed to death by the black hole .
it would be like a near-death experience where you see the light at the end of the tunnel , but it 's a total death experience .
and there 's no way of telling anybody about the light at the end of the tunnel .
now we 've never seen a shadow like this of a black hole , but black holes can be heard , even if they 're not seen .
imagine now taking an astrophysically realistic situation -- imagine two black holes that have lived a long life together .
maybe they started as stars and collapsed to two black holes -- each one 10 times the mass of the sun .
so now we 're going to crush them down to 60 kilometers across .
they can be spinning hundreds of times a second .
at the end of their lives , they 're going around each other very near the speed of light .
so they 're crossing thousands of kilometers in a fraction of a second ,
and as they do so , they not only curve space , but they leave behind in their wake a ringing of space , an actual wave on space-time .
space squeezes and stretches as it emanates out from these black holes banging on the universe .
and they travel out into the cosmos at the speed of light .
this computer simulation is due to a relativity group at nasa goddard .
it took almost 30 years for anyone in the world to crack this problem .
this was one of the groups .
it shows two black holes in orbit around each other , again , with these helpfully painted curves .
and if you can see -- it 's kind of faint -- but if you can see the red waves emanating out , those are the gravitational waves .
they 're literally the sounds of space ringing , and they will travel out from these black holes at the speed of light as they ring down and coalesce to one spinning , quiet black hole at the end of the day .
if you were standing near enough , your ear would resonate with the squeezing and stretching of space .
you would literally hear the sound .
now of course , your head would be squeezed and stretched unhelpfully , so you might have trouble understanding what 's going on .
but i 'd like to play for you the sound that we predict .
this is from my group -- a slightly less glamorous computer modeling .
imagine a lighter black hole falling into a very heavy black hole .
the sound you 're hearing is the light black hole banging on space each time it gets close .
if it gets far away , it 's a little too quiet .
but it comes in like a mallet , and it literally cracks space , wobbling it like a drum .
and we can predict what the sound will be .
we know that , as it falls in , it gets faster and it gets louder .
and eventually , we 're going to hear the little guy just fall into the bigger guy .
then it 's gone .
now i 've never heard it that loud -- it 's actually more dramatic .
at home it sounds kind of anticlimactic .
it 's sort of like ding , ding , ding .
this is another sound from my group .
no , i 'm not showing you any images , because black holes don 't leave behind helpful trails of ink , and space is not painted , showing you the curves .
but if you were to float by in space on a space holiday and you heard this , you want to get moving .
want to get away from the sound .
both black holes are moving .
both black holes are getting closer together .
in this case , they 're both wobbling quite a lot .
and then they 're going to merge .
now it 's gone .
now that chirp is very characteristic of black holes merging -- that it chirps up at the end .
now that 's our prediction for what we 'll see .
luckily we 're at this safe distance in long beach , california .
and surely , somewhere in the universe two black holes have merged .
and surely , the space around us is ringing after traveling maybe a million light years , or a million years , at the speed of light to get to us .
but the sound is too quiet for any of us to ever hear .
there are very industrious experiments being built on earth -- one called ligo -- which will detect deviations in the squeezing and stretching of space at less than the fraction of a nucleus of an atom over four kilometers .
it 's a remarkably ambitious experiment , and it 's going to be at advanced sensitivity within the next few years -- to pick this up .
there 's also a mission proposed for space , which hopefully will launch in the next ten years , called lisa . and lisa will be able to see super-massive black holes -- black holes millions or billions of times the mass of the sun .
in this hubble image , we see two galaxies .
they look like they 're frozen in some embrace .
and each one probably harbors a super-massive black hole at its core .
but they 're not frozen ; they 're actually merging .
these two black holes are colliding , and they will merge over a billion-year time scale .
it 's beyond our human perception to pick up a song of that duration .
but lisa could see the final stages of two super-massive black holes earlier in the universe 's history , the last 15 minutes before they fall together .
and it 's not just black holes , but it 's also any big disturbance in the universe -- and the biggest of them all is the big bang .
when that expression was coined , it was derisive -- like , " oh , who would believe in a big bang ? " but now it actually might be more technically accurate because it might bang . it might make a sound .
this animation from my friends at proton studios shows looking at the big bang from the outside .
we don 't ever want to do that actually . we want to be inside the universe because there 's no such thing as standing outside the universe .
so imagine you 're inside the big bang .
it 's everywhere , it 's all around you , and the space is wobbling chaotically .
fourteen billion years pass and this song is still ringing all around us .
galaxies form , and generations of stars form in those galaxies ,
and around one star , at least one star , is a habitable planet .
and here we are frantically building these experiments , doing these calculations , writing these computer codes .
imagine a billion years ago , two black holes collided .
that song has been ringing through space for all that time .
we weren 't even here .
it gets closer and closer -- 40,000 years ago , we 're still doing cave paintings .
it 's like hurry , build your instruments .
it 's getting closer and closer , and in 20 ... whatever year it will be when our detectors are finally at advanced sensitivity -- we 'll build them , we 'll turn on the machines and , bang , we 'll catch it -- the first song from space .
if it was the big bang we were going to pick up , it would sound like this .
it 's a terrible sound .
it 's literally the definition of noise .
it 's white noise ; it 's such a chaotic ringing .
but it 's around us everywhere , presumably , if it hasn 't been wiped out by some other process in the universe .
and if we pick it up , it will be music to our ears because it will be the quiet echo of that moment of our creation , of our observable universe .
so within the next few years , we 'll be able to turn up the soundtrack a little bit , render the universe in audio .
but if we detect those earliest moments , it 'll bring us that much closer to an understanding of the big bang , which brings us that much closer to asking some of the hardest , most elusive , questions .
if we run the movie of our universe backwards , we know that there was a big bang in our past , and we might even hear the cacophonous sound of it , but was our big bang the only big bang ?
i mean we have to ask , has it happened before ?
will it happen again ?
i mean , in the spirit of rising to ted 's challenge to reignite wonder , we can ask questions , at least for this last minute , that honestly might evade us forever .
but we have to ask : is it possible that our universe is just a plume off of some greater history ?
or , is it possible that we 're just a branch off of a multiverse -- each branch with its own big bang in its past -- maybe some of them with black holes playing drums , maybe some without -- maybe some with sentient life , and maybe some without -- not in our past , not in our future , but somehow fundamentally connected to us ?
so we have to wonder , if there is a multiverse , in some other patch of that multiverse , are there creatures ?
here 's my multiverse creatures .
are there other creatures in the multiverse , wondering about us and wondering about their own origins ?
and if they are , i can imagine them as we are , calculating , writing computer code , building instruments , trying to detect that faintest sound of their origins and wondering who else is out there .
thank you . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / nalini _ nadkarni _ life _ science _ in _ prison.html
nalini nadkarni challenges our perspective on trees and prisons -- she says both can be more dynamic than we think . through a partnership with the state of washington , she brings science classes and conservation programs to inmates , with unexpected results .
biosphere , crime , environment , nature , prison , social change
911
nalini nadkarni : life science in prison
trees epitomize stasis .
trees are rooted in the ground in one place for many human generations ,
but if we shift our perspective from the trunk to the twigs , trees become very dynamic entities , moving and growing .
and i decided to explore this movement by turning trees into artists .
i simply tied the end of a paintbrush onto a twig .
i waited for the wind to come up and held up a canvas ,
and that produced art .
the piece of art you see on your left is painted by a western red cedar and that on your right by a douglas fir ,
and what i learned was that different species have different signatures , like a picasso versus a monet .
but i was also interested in the movement of trees and how this art might let me capture that and quantify it ,
so to measure the distance that a single vine maple tree -- which produced this painting -- moved in a single year , i simply measured and summed each of those lines .
i multiplied them by the number of twigs per branch and the number of branches per tree and then divided that by the number of minutes per year .
and so i was able to calculate how far a single tree moved in a single year .
you might have a guess .
the answer is actually 186,540 miles , or seven times around the globe .
and so simply by shifting our perspective from a single trunk to the many dynamic twigs , we are able to see that trees are not simply static entities , but rather extremely dynamic .
and i began to think about ways that we might consider this lesson of trees , to consider other entities that are also static and stuck , but which cry for change and dynamicism ,
and one of those entities is our prisons .
prisons , of course , are where people who break our laws are stuck , confined behind bars .
and our prison system itself is stuck .
the united states has over 2.3 million incarcerated men and women .
that number is rising .
of the 100 incarcerated people that are released , 60 will return to prison .
funds for education , for training and for rehabilitation are declining ,
so this despairing cycle of incarceration continues .
i decided to ask whether the lesson i had learned from trees as artists could be applied to a static institution such as our prisons ,
and i think the answer is yes .
in the year 2007 , i started a partnership with the washington state department of corrections . working with four prisons , we began bringing science and scientists , sustainability and conservation projects to four state prisons .
we give science lectures ,
and the men here are choosing to come to our science lectures instead of watching television or weightlifting .
that , i think , is movement .
we partnered with the nature conservancy for inmates at stafford creek correctional center to grow endangered prairie plants for restoration of relic prairie areas in washington state .
that , i think , is movement .
we worked with the washington state department of fish and wildlife to grow endangered frogs -- the oregon spotted frog -- for later release into protected wetlands .
that , i think , is movement .
and just recently , we 've begun to work with those men who are segregated in what we call supermax facilities .
they 've incurred violent infractions by becoming violent with guards and with other prisoners .
they 're kept in bare cells like this for 23 hours a day .
when they have meetings with their review boards or mental health professionals , they 're placed in immobile booths like this .
for one hour a day they 're brought to these bleak and bland exercise yards .
although we can 't bring trees and prairie plants and frogs into these environments , we are bringing images of nature into these exercise yards , putting them on the walls , so at least they get contact with visual images of nature .
this is mr. lopez , who has been in solitary confinement for 18 months ,
and he 's providing input on the types of images that he believes would make him and his fellow inmates more serene , more calm , less apt to violence .
and so what we see , i think , is that small , collective movements of change can perhaps move an entity such as our own prison system in a direction of hope .
we know that trees are static entities when we look at their trunks .
but if trees can create art , if they can encircle the globe seven times in one year , if prisoners can grow plants and raise frogs , then perhaps there are other static entities that we hold inside ourselves , like grief , like addictions , like racism , that can also change .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / swami _ dayananda _ saraswati.html
swami dayananda saraswati unravels the parallel paths of personal development and attaining true compassion . he walks us through each step of self-realization , from helpless infancy to the fearless act of caring for others .
charter for compassion , chautauqua , compassion , global issues , religion , self
674
swami dayananda saraswati : the profound journey of compassion
a human child is born , and for quite a long time is a consumer .
it cannot be consciously a contributor .
it is helpless .
it doesn 't know how to survive , even though it is endowed with an instinct to survive .
it needs the help of mother , or a foster mother , to survive .
it can 't afford to doubt the person who tends the child .
it has to totally surrender , as one surrenders to an anesthesiologist .
it has to totally surrender .
that implies a lot of trust .
that implies the trusted person won 't violate the trust .
as the child grows , it begins to discover that the person trusted is violating the trust .
it doesn 't know even the word " violation . "
therefore , it has to blame itself ,
a wordless blame , which is more difficult to really resolve -- the wordless self-blame .
as the child grows to become an adult : so far , it has been a consumer , but the growth of a human being lies in his or her capacity to contribute , to be a contributor .
one cannot contribute unless one feels secure , one feels big , one feels : i have enough .
to be compassionate is not a joke .
it 's not that simple .
one has to discover a certain bigness in oneself .
that bigness should be centered on oneself , not in terms of money , not in terms of power you wield , not in terms of any status that you can command in the society , but it should be centered on oneself .
the self : you are self-aware .
on that self , it should be centered -- a bigness , a wholeness . otherwise , compassion is just a word and a dream .
you can be compassionate occasionally , more moved by empathy than by compassion .
thank god we are empathetic .
when somebody 's in pain , we pick up the pain .
in a wimbledon final match , these two guys fight it out .
each one has got two games .
it can be anybody 's game .
what they have sweated so far has no meaning .
one person wins .
the tennis etiquette is , both the players have to come to the net and shake hands .
the winner boxes the air and kisses the ground , throws his shirt as though somebody is waiting for it .
and this guy has to come to the net .
when he comes to the net , you see , his whole face changes .
it looks as though he 's wishing that he didn 't win .
why ? empathy .
that 's human heart .
no human heart is denied of that empathy .
no religion can demolish that by indoctrination .
no culture , no nation and nationalism -- nothing can touch it because it is empathy .
and that capacity to empathize is the window through which you reach out to people , you do something that makes a difference in somebody 's life --
even words , even time .
compassion is not defined in one form .
there 's no indian compassion .
there 's no american compassion .
it transcends nation , the gender , the age .
why ? because it is there in everybody .
it 's experienced by people occasionally .
then this occasional compassion , we are not talking about --
it will never remain occasional .
by mandate , you cannot make a person compassionate .
you can 't say , " please love me . "
love is something you discover .
it 's not an action , but in the english language , it is also an action .
i will come to it later .
so one has got to discover a certain wholeness .
i am going to cite the possibility of being whole , which is within our experience , everybody 's experience .
in spite of a very tragic life , one is happy in moments which are very few and far between .
and the one who is happy , even for a slapstick joke , accepts himself and also the scheme of things in which one finds oneself .
that means the whole universe , known things and unknown things .
all of them are totally accepted because you discover your wholeness in yourself .
the subject -- " me " -- and the object -- the scheme of things -- fuse into oneness , an experience nobody can say , " i am denied of , " an experience common to all and sundry .
that experience confirms that , in spite of all your limitations -- all your wants , desires , unfulfilled , and the credit cards and layoffs and , finally , baldness -- you can be happy .
but the extension of the logic is that you don 't need to fulfill your desire to be happy .
you are the very happiness , the wholeness that you want to be .
there 's no choice in this :
that only confirms the reality that the wholeness cannot be different from you , cannot be minus you .
it has got to be you .
you cannot be a part of wholeness and still be whole .
your moment of happiness reveals that reality , that realization , that recognition :
" maybe i am the whole .
maybe the swami is right .
maybe the swami is right . " you start your new life .
then everything becomes meaningful .
i have no more reason to blame myself .
if one has to blame oneself , one has a million reasons plus many . but if i say , in spite of my body being limited -- if it is black it is not white , if it is white it is not black : body is limited any which way you look at it . limited .
your knowledge is limited , health is limited , and power is therefore limited , and the cheerfulness is going to be limited .
compassion is going to be limited .
everything is going to be limitless .
you cannot command compassion unless you become limitless , and nobody can become limitless , either you are or you are not . period .
and there is no way of your being not limitless too .
your own experience reveals , in spite of all limitations , you are the whole .
and the wholeness is the reality of you when you relate to the world .
it is love first .
when you relate to the world , the dynamic manifestation of the wholeness is , what we say , love .
and itself becomes compassion if the object that you relate to evokes that emotion .
then that again transforms into giving , into sharing .
you express yourself because you have compassion .
to discover compassion , you need to be compassionate .
to discover the capacity to give and share , you need to be giving and sharing .
there is no shortcut : it is like swimming by swimming .
you learn swimming by swimming .
you cannot learn swimming on a foam mattress and enter into water .
you learn swimming by swimming . you learn cycling by cycling .
you learn cooking by cooking , having some sympathetic people around you to eat what you cook .
and , therefore , what i say , you have to fake it and make it .
you need to .
my predecessor meant that .
you have to act it out .
you have to act compassionately .
there is no verb for compassion , but you have an adverb for compassion .
that 's interesting to me .
you act compassionately .
but then , how to act compassionately if you don 't have compassion ?
that is where you fake .
you fake it and make it . this is the mantra of the united states of america .
you fake it and make it .
you act compassionately as though you have compassion : grind your teeth , take all the support system . if you know how to pray , pray .
ask for compassion .
let me act compassionately .
do it . you 'll discover compassion and also slowly a relative compassion , and slowly , perhaps if you get the right teaching , you 'll discover compassion is a dynamic manifestation of the reality of yourself , which is oneness , wholeness , and that 's what you are .
with these words , thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / shirin _ neshat _ art _ in _ exile.html
iranian-born artist shirin neshat explores the paradox of being an artist in exile : a voice for her people , but unable to go home . in her work , she explores iran pre- and post-islamic revolution , tracing political and societal change through powerful images of women .
arts , film , global issues , photography , politics , women
1154
shirin neshat : art in exile
the story i wanted to share with you today is my challenge as an iranian artist , as an iranian woman artist , as an iranian woman artist living in exile .
well , it has its pluses and minuses .
on the dark side , politics doesn 't seem to escape people like me .
every iranian artist , in one form or another , is political .
politics have defined our lives .
if you 're living in iran , you 're facing censorship , harassment , arrest , torture -- at times , execution .
if you 're living outside like me , you 're faced with life in exile -- the pain of the longing and the separation from your loved ones and your family .
therefore , we don 't find the moral , emotional , psychological and political space to distance ourselves from the reality of social responsibility .
oddly enough , an artist such as myself finds herself also in the position of being the voice , the speaker of my people , even if i have , indeed , no access to my own country .
also , people like myself , we 're fighting two battles on different grounds .
we 're being critical of the west , the perception of the west about our identity -- about the image that is constructed about us , about our women , about our politics , about our religion .
we are there to take pride and insist on respect .
and at the same time , we 're fighting another battle .
that is our regime , our government -- our atrocious government , [ that ] has done every crime in order to stay in power .
our artists are at risk .
we are in a position of danger .
we pose a threat to the order of the government .
but ironically , this situation has empowered all of us , because we are considered , as artists , central to the cultural , political , social discourse in iran .
we are there to inspire , to provoke , to mobilize , to bring hope to our people .
we are the reporters of our people , and are communicators to the outside world .
art is our weapon .
culture is a form of resistance .
i envy sometimes the artists of the west for their freedom of expression . for the fact that they can distance themselves from the question of politics . from the fact that they are only serving one audience , mainly the western culture .
but also , i worry about the west , because often in this country , in this western world that we have , culture risks being a form of entertainment .
our people depend on our artists , and culture is beyond communication .
my journey as an artist started from a very , very personal place .
i did not start to make social commentary about my country .
the first one that you see in front of you is actually when i first returned to iran after being separated for a good 12 years .
it was after the islamic revolution of 1979 .
while i was absent from iran , the islamic revolution had descended on iran and had entirely transformed the country from persian to the islamic culture .
i came mainly to be reunited with my family and to reconnect in a way that i found my place in the society .
but instead , i found a country that was totally ideological and that i didn 't recognize anymore .
more so , i became very interested , as i was facing my own personal dilemmas and questions , i became immersed in the study of the islamic revolution -- how , indeed , it had incredibly transformed the lives of iranian women .
i found the subject of iranian women immensely interesting , in the way the women of iran , historically , seemed to embody the political transformation .
so in a way , by studying a woman , you can read the structure and the ideology of the country .
so i made a group of work that at once faced my own personal questions in life , and yet it brought my work into a larger discourse -- the subject of martyrdom , the question of those who willingly stand in that intersection of love of god , faith , but violence and crime and cruelty .
for me , this became incredibly important .
and yet , i had an unusual position toward this .
i was an outsider who had come back to iran to find my place , but i was not in a position to be critical of the government or the ideology of the islamic revolution .
this changed slowly as i found my voice and i discovered things that i didn 't know i would discover .
so my art became slightly more critical .
my knife became a little sharper .
and i fell into a life in exile .
i am a nomadic artist .
i work in morocco , in turkey , in mexico .
i go everywhere to make believe it 's iran .
now i am making films .
last year , i finished a film called " women without men . "
" women without men " returns to history , but another part of our iranian history .
it goes to 1953 when american cia exercised a coup and removed a democratically elected leader , dr. mossadegh .
the book is written by an iranian woman , shahrnush parsipur .
it 's a magical realist novel .
this book is banned , and she spent five years in prison .
my obsession with this book , and the reason i made this into a film , is because it at once was addressing the question of being a female -- traditionally , historically in iran -- and the question of four women who are all looking for an idea of change , freedom and democracy -- while the country of iran , equally , as if another character , also struggled for an idea of freedom and democracy and independence from the foreign interventions .
i made this film because i felt it 's important for it to speak to the westerners about our history as a country .
that all of you seem to remember iran after the islamic revolution .
that iran was once a secular society , and we had democracy , and this democracy was stolen from us by the american government , by the british government .
this film also speaks to the iranian people in asking them to return to their history and look at themselves before they were so islamicized -- in the way we looked , in the way we played music , in the way we had intellectual life .
and most of all , in the way that we fought for democracy .
these are some of the shots actually from my film .
these are some of the images of the coup .
and we made this film in casablanca , recreating all the shots .
this film tried to find a balance between telling a political story , but also a feminine story .
being a visual artist , indeed , i am foremost interested to make art -- to make art that transcends politics , religion , the question of feminism , and become an important , timeless , universal work of art .
the challenge i have is how to do that . how to tell a political story but an allegorical story . how to move you with your emotions , but also make your mind work .
these are some of the images and the characters of the film .
now comes the green movement -- the summer of 2009 , as my film is released -- the uprising begins in the streets of tehran .
what is unbelievably ironic is the period that we tried to depict in the film , the cry for democracy and social justice , repeats itself now again in tehran .
the green movement significantly inspired the world .
it brought a lot of attention to all those iranians who stand for basic human rights and struggle for democracy .
what was most significant for me was , once again , the presence of the women .
they 're absolutely inspirational for me .
if in the islamic revolution , the images of the woman portrayed were submissive and didn 't have a voice , now we saw a new idea of feminism in the streets of tehran -- women who were educated , forward thinking , non-traditional , sexually open , fearless and seriously feminist .
these women and those young men united iranians across the world , inside and outside .
i then discovered why i take so much inspiration from iranian women .
that , under all circumstances , they have pushed the boundary .
they have confronted the authority .
they have broken every rule in the smallest and the biggest way .
and once again , they proved themselves .
i stand here to say that iranian women have found a new voice , and their voice is giving me my voice .
and it 's a great honor to be an iranian woman and an iranian artist , even if i have to operate in the west only for now .
thank you so much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / salman _ khan _ let _ s _ use _ video _ to _ reinvent _ education.html
salman khan talks about how and why he created the remarkable khan academy , a carefully structured series of educational videos offering complete curricula in math and , now , other subjects . he shows the power of interactive exercises , and calls for teachers to consider flipping the traditional classroom script -- give students video lectures to watch at home , and do " homework " in the classroom with the teacher available to help .
talks
1090
salman khan : let 's use video to reinvent education
the khan academy is most known for its collection of videos , so before i go any further , let me show you a little bit of a montage .
salman khan : so the hypotenuse is now going to be five .
this animal 's fossils are only found in this area of south america -- a nice clean band here -- and this part of africa .
we can integrate over the surface , and the notation usually is a capital sigma .
national assembly : they create the committee of public safety , which sounds like a very nice committee .
notice , this is an aldehyde , and it 's an alcohol .
start differentiating into effector and memory cells .
a galaxy . hey , there 's another galaxy .
oh look , there 's another galaxy .
and for dollars , is their 30 million , plus the 20 million dollars from the american manufacturer .
if this does not blow your mind , then you have no emotion .
sk : we now have on the order of 2,200 videos covering everything from basic arithmetic all the way to vector calculus and some of the stuff you saw there .
we have a million students a month using the site , watching on the order of 100 to 200,000 videos a day .
but what we 're going to talk about in this is how we 're going to the next level .
but before i do that , i want to talk a little bit about really just how i got started .
and some of you all might know , about five years ago i was an analyst at a hedge fund ,
and i was in boston , and i was tutoring my cousins in new orleans , remotely .
and i started putting the first youtube videos up just a supplement for my cousins -- something that might give them a refresher or something .
and as soon as i put those first youtube videos up , something interesting happened -- actually a bunch of interesting things happened .
the first was the feedback from my cousins .
they told me that they preferred me on youtube than in person .
and once you get over the backhanded nature of that , there was actually something very profound there .
they were saying that they preferred the automated version of their cousin to their cousin .
at first , it 's very unintuitive , but when you actually think about it from their point of view , it makes a ton of sense .
you have this situation where now they can pause and repeat their cousin , without feeling like they 're wasting my time .
if they have to review something that they should have learned a couple of weeks ago , or maybe a couple of years ago , they don 't have to be embarrassed and ask their cousin .
they can just watch those videos . if they 're bored , they can go ahead .
they can watch it at their own time , at their own pace .
and probably the least appreciated aspect of this is the notion that the very first time , the very first time that you 're trying to get your brain around a new concept , the very last thing you need is another human being saying , " do you understand this ? " and that 's what was happening with the interaction with my cousins before ,
and now they can just do it in the intimacy of their own room .
the other thing that happened is -- i put them on youtube just -- i saw no reason to make it private , so i let other people watch it ,
and then people started stumbling on it ,
and i started getting some comments and some letters and all sorts of feedback from random people from around the world .
and these are just a few .
this is actually from one of the original calculus videos .
and someone wrote just on youtube -- it was a youtube comment : " first time i smiled doing a derivative . "
and let 's pause here .
this person did a derivative and then they smiled .
and then in a response to that same comment -- this is on the thread .
you can go on youtube and look at these comments -- someone else wrote : " same thing here .
i actually got a natural high and a good mood for the entire day . since i remember seeing all of this matrix text in class , and here i 'm all like , ' i know kung fu . ' " and we get a lot of feedback all along those lines .
this clearly was helping people .
but then , as the viewership kept growing and kept growing , i started getting letters from people , and it was starting to become clear that it was actually more than just a nice-to-have .
this is just an excerpt from one of those letters .
" my 12 year-old son has autism and has had a terrible time with math .
we have tried everything , viewed everything , bought everything .
we stumbled on your video on decimals and it got through .
then we went on to the dreaded fractions . again , he got it .
we could not believe it .
he is so excited . " and so you can imagine , here i was an analyst at a hedge fund . it was very strange for me to do something of social value .
but i was excited , so i kept going .
and then a few other things started to dawn on me .
that , not only would it help my cousins right now , or these people who are sending letters , but that this content will never go old , that it could help their kids or their grandkids .
if isaac newton had done youtube videos on calculus , i wouldn 't have to .
assuming he was good . we don 't know .
the other thing that happened -- and even at this point , i said , " okay , maybe it 's a good supplement .
it 's good for motivated students .
it 's good for maybe home schoolers . " but i didn 't think it would be something that would somehow penetrate the classroom .
but then i started getting letters from teachers .
and the teachers would write , saying , " we 've used your videos to flip the classroom .
you 've given the lectures , so now what we do ... " -- and this could happen in every classroom in america tomorrow -- " ... what i do is i assign the lectures for homework ,
and what used to be homework , i now have the students doing in the classroom . " and i want to pause here for -- i want to pause here for a second , because there 's a couple of interesting things .
one , when those teachers are doing that , there 's the obvious benefit -- the benefit that now their students can enjoy the videos in the way that my cousins did .
they can pause , repeat at their own pace , at their own time .
but the more interesting thing is -- and this is the unintuitive thing when you talk about technology in the classroom -- by removing the one-size-fits-all lecture from the classroom and letting students have a self-paced lecture at home , and then when you go to the classroom , letting them do work , having the teacher walk around , having the peers actually be able to interact with each other , these teachers have used technology to humanize the classroom .
they took a fundamentally dehumanizing experience -- 30 kids with their fingers on their lips , not allowed to interact with each other .
a teacher , no matter how good , has to give this one-size-fits-all lecture to 30 students -- blank faces , slightly antagonistic -- and now it 's a human experience .
now they 're actually interacting with each other .
so once the khan academy -- i quit my job and we turned into a real organization -- we 're a not-for-profit -- the question is , how do we take this to the next level ?
how do we take what those teachers are doing to their natural conclusion ?
and so what i 'm showing you over here , these are actual exercises that i started writing for my cousins .
the ones i started were much more primitive .
this is a more competent version of it .
but the paradigm here is , we 'll generate as many questions as you need until you get that concept , until you get 10 in a row .
and the khan academy videos are there .
you get hints , the actual steps for that problem , if you don 't know how to do it .
but the paradigm here , it seems like a very simple thing : 10 in a row , you move on .
but it 's fundamentally different than what 's happening in classrooms right now .
in a traditional classroom , you have a couple of homework , homework , lecture , homework , lecture , and then you have a snapshot exam .
and that exam , whether you get a 70 percent , an 80 percent , a 90 percent or a 95 percent , the class moves on to the next topic .
and even that 95 percent student , what was the five percent they didn 't know ?
maybe they didn 't know what happens when you raise something to the zero power .
and then you go build on that in the next concept .
that 's analogous to imagine learning to ride a bicycle , and maybe i give you a lecture ahead of time , and i give you that bicycle for two weeks .
and then i come back after two weeks , and i say , " well , let 's see . you 're having trouble taking left turns .
you can 't quite stop .
you 're an 80 percent bicyclist . " so i put a big c stamp on your forehead and then i say , " here 's a unicycle . " but as ridiculous as that sounds , that 's exactly what 's happening in our classrooms right now .
and the idea is you fast forward and good students start failing algebra all of a sudden and start failing calculus all of a sudden , despite being smart , despite having good teachers ,
and it 's usually because they have these swiss cheese gaps that kept building throughout their foundation .
so our model is learn math the way you 'd learn anything , like the way you would learn a bicycle .
stay on that bicycle . fall off that bicycle .
do it as long as necessary until you have mastery .
the traditional model , it penalizes you for experimentation and failure , but it does not expect mastery .
we encourage you to experiment . we encourage you to failure .
but we do expect mastery .
this is just another one of the modules .
this is trigonometry .
this is shifting and reflecting functions .
and they all fit together .
we have about 90 of these right now .
and you can go to the site right now . it 's all free . not trying to sell anything .
but the general idea is that they all fit into this knowledge map .
that top node right there , that 's literally single digit addition .
it 's like one plus one is equal to two .
and the paradigm is , once you get 10 in a row on that , it keeps forwarding you to more and more advanced modules .
so if you keep further down the knowledge map , we 're getting into more advanced arithmetic .
further down , you start getting into pre-algebra and early algebra .
further down , you start getting into algebra one , algebra two , a little bit of precalculus .
and the idea is , from this we can actually teach everything -- well , everything that can be taught in this type of a framework .
so you can imagine -- and this is what we are working on -- is from this knowledge map you have logic , you have computer programming , you have grammar , you have genetics , all based off of that core of , if you know this and that , now you 're ready for this next concept .
now that can work well for an individual learner , and i encourage , one , for you to do it with your kids , but i also encourage everyone in the audience to do it yourself .
it 'll change what happens at the dinner table .
but what we want to do is to use the natural conclusion of the flipping of the classroom that those early teachers had emailed me about .
and so what i 'm showing you here , this is actually data from a pilot in the los altos school district , where they took two fifth grade classes and two seventh grade classes and completely gutted their old math curriculum .
these kids aren 't using textbooks , they 're not getting one-size-fits-all lectures .
they 're doing khan academy , they 're doing that software , for roughly half of their math class .
and i want to make it clear , we don 't view this as the complete math education .
what it does is -- and this is what 's happening in los altos -- it frees up time .
this is the blocking and tackling , making sure you know how to move through a system of equations , and it frees up time for the simulations , for the games , for the mechanics , for the robot building , for the estimating how high that hill is based on its shadow .
and so the paradigm is the teacher walks in every day , every kid works at their own pace -- and this is actually a live dashboard from los altos school district -- and they look at this dashboard .
every row is a student .
every column is one of those concepts .
green means the student 's already proficient .
blue means they 're working on it -- no need to worry .
red means they 're stuck .
and what the teacher does is literally just say , " let me intervene on the red kids . " or even better , " let me get one of the green kids who are already proficient in that concept to be the first line of attack and actually tutor their peer . " now i come from a very data-centric reality , so we don 't want that teacher to even go and intervene and have to ask the kid awkward questions : " oh , what do you not understand ? " or " what do you do understand ? " and all of the rest .
so our paradigm is to really arm the teachers with as much data as possible -- really data that , in almost any other field , is expected , if you 're in finance or marketing or manufacturing --
and so the teachers can actually diagnose what 's wrong with the students so they can make their interaction as productive as possible .
so now the teachers know exactly what the students have been up to , how long they have been spending every day , what videos have they been watching , when did they pause the videos , what did they stop watching , what exercises are they using , what have they been focused on ?
the outer circle shows what exercises they were focused on .
the inner circle shows the videos they 're focused on .
and the data gets pretty granular so you can see the exact problems that the student got right or wrong .
red is wrong , blue is right .
the leftmost question is the first question that the student attempted .
they watched the video right over there .
and then you can see , eventually , they were able to get 10 in a row .
it 's almost like you can see them learning over those last 10 problems .
they also got faster .
the height is how long it took them .
so when you talk about self-paced learning , it makes sense for everyone -- in education-speak , differentiated learning -- but it 's kind of crazy when you see it in a classroom .
because every time we 've done this , in every classroom we 've done , over and over again , if you go five days into it , there 's a group of kids who 've raced ahead and there 's a group of kids who are a little bit slower .
and in a traditional model , if you did a snapshot assessment , you say , " these are the gifted kids , these are the slow kids .
maybe they should be tracked differently .
maybe we should put them in different classes . " but when you let every student work at their own pace -- and we see it over and over and over again -- you see students who took a little bit [ of ] extra time on one concept or the other , but once they get through that concept , they just race ahead .
and so the same kids that you thought were slow six weeks ago , you now would think are gifted .
and we 're seeing it over and over and over again .
and it makes you really wonder how much all of the labels maybe a lot of us have benefited from were really just due to a coincidence of time .
now as valuable as something like this is in a district like los altos , our goal is to use technology to humanize , not just in los altos , but on a global scale , what 's happening in education .
and actually , that kind of brings an interesting point .
a lot of the effort in humanizing the classroom is focused on student-to-teacher ratios .
in our mind , the relevant metric is student-to-valuable-human-time- with-the-teacher ratio .
so in a traditional model , most of the teacher 's time is spent doing lectures and grading and whatnot .
maybe five percent of their time is actually sitting next to students and actually working with them .
now 100 percent of their time is .
so once again , using technology , not just flipping the classroom , you 're humanizing the classroom , i 'd argue , by a factor of five or 10 .
and as valuable as that is in los altos , imagine what that does to the adult learner who 's embarrassed to go back and learn stuff that they should have before , before going back to college .
imagine what it does to a street kid in calcutta who has to help his family during the day , and that 's the reason why he or she can 't go to school .
now they can spend two hours a day and remediate , or get up to speed and not feel embarrassed about what they do or don 't know .
now imagine what happens where -- we talked about the peers teaching each other inside of a classroom .
but this is all one system .
there 's no reason why you can 't have that peer-to-peer tutoring beyond that one classroom .
imagine what happens if that student in calcutta all of a sudden can tutor your son , or your son can tutor that kid in calcutta ?
and i think what you 'll see emerging is this notion of a global one-world classroom .
and that 's essentially what we 're trying to build .
thank you .
bill gates : i 've seen some things you 're doing in the system that have to do with motivation and feedback -- energy points , merit badges .
tell me what you 're thinking there .
sk : oh yeah . no , we have an awesome team working on it .
and i have to make it clear , it 's not just me anymore .
i 'm still doing all the videos , but we have a rockstar team doing the software .
yeah , we 've put a bunch of game mechanics in there where you get these badges , we 're going to start having leader boards by area , and you get points .
it 's actually been pretty interesting .
just the wording of the badging or how many points you get for doing something , we see on a system-wide basis , like tens of thousands of fifth graders or sixth graders going one direction or another , depending what badge you give them .
bg : and the collaboration you 're doing with los altos , how did that come about ?
sk : los altos , it was kind of crazy .
once again , i didn 't expect it to be used in classrooms .
someone from their board came and said , " what would you do if you had carte blanche in a classroom ? " and i said , " well , i would just , every student work at their own pace on something like this and we 'd give a dashboard . " and they said , " oh , this is kind of radical . we have to think about it . " and me and the rest of the team were like , " they 're never going to want to do this . " but literally the next day they were like , " can you start in two weeks ? " bg : so fifth grade math is where that 's going on right now ?
sk : it 's two fifth grade classes and two seventh grade classes .
and they 're doing it at the district level .
i think what they 're excited about is they can now follow these kids .
it 's not an only-in-school thing .
we 've even , on christmas , we saw some of the kids were doing it .
and we can track everything .
so they can actually track them as they go through the entire district .
through the summers , as they go from one teacher to the next , you have this continuity of data that even at the district level they can see .
bg : so some of those views we saw were for the teacher to go in and track actually what 's going on with those kids .
so you 're getting feedback on those teacher views to see what they think they mean ?
sk : oh yeah . most of those were specs by the teachers .
we made some of those for students so they could see their data , but we have a very tight design loop with the teachers themselves .
and they 're literally saying , " hey , this is nice , but ... " like that focus graph , a lot of the teachers said , " i have a feeling that a lot of the kids are jumping around and not focusing on one topic . " so we made that focus diagram .
so it 's all been teacher-driven .
it 's been pretty crazy .
bg : is this ready for prime time ?
do you think a lot of classes next school year should try this thing out ?
sk : yeah , it 's ready .
we 've got a million people on the site already , so we can handle a few more .
no , no reason why it really can 't happen in every classroom in america tomorrow .
bg : and the vision of the tutoring thing .
the idea there is , if i 'm confused about a topic , somehow right in the user interface i 'd find people who are volunteering , maybe see their reputation , and i could schedule and connect up with those people ?
sk : absolutely . and this is something that i recommend everyone in this audience to do .
those dashboards the teachers have , you can go log in right now and you can essentially become a coach for your kids , or nephews , or cousins , or maybe some kids at the boys and girls club .
and yeah , you can start becoming a mentor , a tutor , really immediately .
but yeah , it 's all there .
bg : well , it 's amazing .
i think you just got a glimpse of the future of education .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / oliver _ sacks _ what _ hallucination _ reveals _ about _ our _ minds.html
neurologist and author oliver sacks brings our attention to charles bonnet syndrome -- when visually impaired people experience lucid hallucinations . he describes the experiences of his patients in heartwarming detail and walks us through the biology of this under-reported phenomenon .
biology , brain , medicine , mind , neurology , psychology
637
oliver sacks : what hallucination reveals about our minds
we see with the eyes ,
but we see with the brain as well .
and seeing with the brain is often called imagination .
and we are familiar with the landscapes of our own imagination , our inscapes . we 've lived with them all our lives .
but there are also hallucinations as well ,
and hallucinations are completely different .
they don 't seem to be of our creation .
they don 't seem to be under our control .
they seem to come from the outside , and to mimic perception .
so i am going to be talking about hallucinations ,
and a particular sort of visual hallucination which i see among my patients .
a few months ago , i got a phone call from a nursing home where i work .
they told me that one of their residents , an old lady in her 90s , was seeing things ,
and they wondered if she 'd gone bonkers
or , because she was an old lady , whether she 'd had a stroke , or whether she had alzheimer 's .
and so they asked me if i would come and see rosalie , the old lady .
i went in to see her .
it was evident straight away that she was perfectly sane and lucid and of good intelligence ,
but she 'd been very startled and very bewildered , because she 'd been seeing things .
and she told me -- the nurses hadn 't mentioned this -- that she was blind , that she had been completely blind from macular degeneration for five years .
but now , for the last few days , she 'd been seeing things .
so i said , " what sort of things ? "
and she said , " people in eastern dress , in drapes , walking up and down stairs .
a man who turns towards me and smiles .
but he has huge teeth on one side of his mouth .
animals too .
i see a white building . it 's snowing , a soft snow .
i see this horse with a harness , dragging the snow away .
then , one night , the scene changes .
i see cats and dogs walking towards me . they come to a certain point and then stop .
then it changes again .
i see a lot of children . they are walking up and down stairs .
they wear bright colors , rose and blue , like eastern dress . "
sometimes , she said , before the people come on , she may hallucinate pink and blue squares on the floor , which seem to go up to the ceiling .
i said , " is this like a dream ? "
and she said , " no , it 's not like a dream . it 's like a movie . "
she said , " it 's got color . it 's got motion .
but it 's completely silent , like a silent movie . "
and she said that it 's a rather boring movie .
she said , " all these people with eastern dress , walking up and down , very repetitive , very limited . "
and she has a sense of humor .
she knew it was a hallucination .
but she was frightened . she 'd lived 95 years and she 'd never had a hallucination before .
she said that the hallucinations were unrelated to anything she was thinking or feeling or doing ,
that they seemed to come on by themselves , or disappear .
she had no control over them .
she said she didn 't recognize any of the people or places in the hallucinations .
and none of the people or the animals , well , they all seemed oblivious of her .
and she didn 't know what was going on .
she wondered if she was going mad or losing her mind .
well , i examined her carefully .
she was a bright old lady ,
perfectly sane . she had no medical problems .
she wasn 't on any medications which could produce hallucinations .
but she was blind .
and i then said to her , " i think i know what you have . "
i said , " there is a special form of visual hallucination which may go with deteriorating vision or blindness . this was originally described , " i said , " right back in the 18th century , by a man called charles bonnet .
and you have charles bonnet syndrome .
there is nothing wrong with your brain . there is nothing wrong with your mind .
you have charles bonnet syndrome . "
and she was very relieved at this , that there was nothing seriously the matter , and also rather curious .
she said , " who is this charles bonnet ? "
she said , " did he have them himself ? "
and she said , " tell all the nurses that i have charles bonnet syndrome . "
" i 'm not crazy . i 'm not demented . i have charles bonnet syndrome . "
well , so i did tell the nurses .
now this , for me , is a common situation .
i work in old-age homes , largely .
i see a lot of elderly people who are hearing impaired or visually impaired .
about 10 percent of the hearing impaired people get musical hallucinations .
and about 10 percent of the visually impaired people get visual hallucinations .
you don 't have to be completely blind , only sufficiently impaired .
now with the original description in the 18th century , charles bonnet did not have them .
his grandfather had these hallucinations .
his grandfather was a magistrate , an elderly man .
he 'd had cataract surgery .
his vision was pretty poor .
and in 1759 , he described to his grandson various things he was seeing .
the first thing he said was he saw a handkerchief in midair .
it was a large blue handkerchief with four orange circles .
and he knew it was a hallucination .
you don 't have handkerchiefs in midair .
and then he saw a big wheel in midair .
but sometimes he wasn 't sure whether he was hallucinating or not ,
because the hallucinations would fit in the context of the visions .
so on one occasion , when his granddaughters were visiting them , he said , " and who are these handsome young men with you ? "
and they said , " alas , grandpapa , there are no handsome young men . "
and then the handsome young men disappeared .
it 's typical of these hallucinations that they may come in a flash and disappear in a flash .
they don 't usually fade in and out .
they are rather sudden , and they change suddenly .
charles lullin , the grandfather , saw hundreds of different figures , different landscapes of all sorts .
on one occasion , he saw a man in a bathrobe smoking a pipe , and realized it was himself .
that was the only figure he recognized .
on one occasion when he was walking in the streets of paris , he saw -- this was real -- a scaffolding .
but when he got back home , he saw a miniature of the scaffolding six inches high , on his study table .
this repetition of perception is sometimes called palinopsia .
with him and with rosalie , what seems to be going on -- and rosalie said , " what 's going on ? " -- and i said that as you lose vision , as the visual parts of the brain are no longer getting any input , they become hyperactive and excitable ,
and they start to fire spontaneously .
and you start to see things .
the things you see can be very complicated indeed .
with another patient of mine , who , also had some vision , the vision she had could be disturbing .
on one occasion , she said she saw a man in a striped shirt in a restaurant .
and he turned around . and then he divided into six figures in striped shirts , who started walking towards her .
and then the six figures came together again , like a concertina .
once , when she was driving , or rather , her husband was driving , the road divided into four
and she felt herself going simultaneously up four roads .
she had very mobile hallucinations as well .
a lot of them had to do with a car .
sometimes she would see a teenage boy sitting on the hood of the car .
he was very tenacious and he moved rather gracefully when the car turned .
and then when they came to a stop , the boy would do a sudden vertical takeoff , 100 foot in the air , and then disappear .
another patient of mine had a different sort of hallucination . this was a woman who didn 't have trouble with her eyes , but the visual parts of her brain ,
a little tumor in the occipital cortex .
and , above all , she would see cartoons .
these cartoons would be transparent and would cover half the visual field , like a screen .
and especially she saw cartoons of kermit the frog .
now , i don 't watch sesame street ,
but she made a point of saying , " why kermit ? " she said , " kermit the frog means nothing to me .
you know , i was wondering about freudian determinants .
why kermit ?
kermit the frog means nothing to me . "
she didn 't mind the cartoons too much . but what did disturb her was she got very persistent images or hallucinations of faces and as with rosalie , the faces were often deformed , with very large teeth or very large eyes .
and these frightened her .
well , what is going on with these people ?
as a physician , i have to try and define what 's going on , and to reassure people ,
especially to reassure them that they 're not going insane .
something like 10 percent , as i said , of visually impaired people get these .
but no more than one percent of the people acknowledge them ,
because they are afraid they will be seen as insane or something .
and if they do mention them to their own doctors they may be misdiagnosed .
in particular , the notion is that if you see things or hear things , you 're going mad ,
but the psychotic hallucinations are quite different .
psychotic hallucinations , whether they are visual or vocal , they address you . they accuse you .
they seduce you . they humiliate you .
they jeer at you .
you interact with them .
there is none of this quality of being addressed with these charles bonnet hallucinations .
there is a film . you 're seeing a film which has nothing to do with you ,
or that 's how people think about it .
there is also a rare thing called temporal lobe epilepsy ,
and sometimes , if one has this , one may feel oneself transported back to a time and place in the past .
you 're at a particular road junction .
you smell chestnuts roasting .
you hear the traffic . all the senses are involved .
and you 're waiting for your girl .
and it 's that tuesday evening back in 1982 .
and the temporal lobe hallucinations are all-sense hallucinations , full of feeling , full of familiarity , located in space and time , coherent , dramatic .
the charles bonnet ones are quite different .
so in the charles bonnet hallucinations , you have all sorts of levels , from the geometrical hallucinations -- the pink and blue squares the woman had -- up to quite elaborate hallucinations with figures and especially faces .
faces , and sometimes deformed faces , are the single commonest thing in these hallucinations .
and one of the second commonest is cartoons .
so , what is going on ?
fascinatingly , in the last few years , it 's been possible to do functional brain imagery , to do fmri on people as they are hallucinating .
and in fact , to find that different parts of the visual brain are activated as they are hallucinating .
when people have these simple geometrical hallucinations , the primary visual cortex is activated .
this is the part of the brain which perceives edges and patterns .
you don 't form images with your primary visual cortex .
when images are formed , a higher part of the visual cortex is involved in the temporal lobe .
and in particular , one area of the temporal lobe is called the fusiform gyrus .
and it 's known that if people have damage in the fusiform gyrus , they maybe lose the ability to recognize faces .
but if there is an abnormal activity in the fusiform gyrus , they may hallucinate faces ,
and this is exactly what you find in some of these people .
there is an area in the anterior part of this gyrus where teeth and eyes are represented ,
and that part of the gyrus is activated when people get the deformed hallucinations .
there is another part of the brain which is especially activated when one sees cartoons .
it 's activated when one recognizes cartoons , when one draws cartoons , and when one hallucinates them .
it 's very interesting that that should be specific .
there are other parts of the brain which are specifically involved with the recognition and hallucination of buildings and landscapes .
around 1970 , it was found that there were not only parts of the brain , but particular cells .
" face cells " were discovered around 1970 .
and now we know that there are hundreds of other sorts of cells , which can be very , very specific .
so you may not only have " car " cells , you may have " aston martin " cells .
i saw an aston martin this morning .
i had to bring it in .
and now it 's in there somewhere .
now , at this level , in what 's called the inferotemporal cortex , there are only visual images , or figments or fragments .
it 's only at higher levels that the other senses join in and there are connections with memory and emotion .
and in the charles bonnet syndrome , you don 't go to those higher levels .
you 're in these levels of inferior visual cortex where you have thousands and tens of thousands and millions of images , or figments , or fragmentary figments , all neurally encoded in particular cells or small clusters of cells .
normally these are all part of the integrated stream of perception , or imagination ,
and one is not conscious of them .
it is only if one is visually impaired or blind that the process is interrupted .
and instead of getting normal perception , you 're getting an anarchic , convulsive stimulation , or release , of all of these visual cells in the inferotemporal cortex .
so , suddenly you see a face . suddenly you see a car .
suddenly this , and suddenly that .
the mind does its best to organize and to give some sort of coherence to this ,
but not terribly successfully .
when these were first described , it was thought that they could be interpreted like dreams .
but in fact people say , " i don 't recognize the people . i can 't form any associations . "
" kermit means nothing to me . "
you don 't get anywhere thinking of them as dreams .
well , i 've more or less said what i wanted .
i think i just want to recapitulate and say this is common .
think of the number of blind people .
there must be hundreds of thousands of blind people who have these hallucinations , but are too scared to mention them .
so this sort of thing needs to be brought into notice , for patients , for doctors , for the public .
finally , i think they are infinitely interesting and valuable , for giving one some insight as to how the brain works .
charles bonnet said , 250 years ago -- he wondered how , thinking these hallucinations , how , as he put it , the theater of the mind could be generated by the machinery of the brain .
now , 250 years later , i think we 're beginning to glimpse how this is done .
thanks very much .
chris anderson : that was superb . thank you so much .
you speak about these things with so much insight and empathy for your patients .
have you yourself experienced any of the syndromes you write about ?
oliver sacks : i was afraid you 'd ask that .
well , yeah , a lot of them .
and actually i 'm a little visually impaired myself .
i 'm blind in one eye , and not terribly good in the other .
and i see the geometrical hallucinations .
but they stop there .
ca : and they don 't disturb you ?
because you understand what 's doing it , it doesn 't make you worried ?
os : well they don 't disturb me any more than my tinnitus ,
which i ignore .
they occasionally interest me ,
and i have many pictures of them in my notebooks .
i 've gone and had an fmri myself , to see how my visual cortex is taking over .
and when i see all these hexagons and complex things , which i also have , in visual migraine , i wonder whether everyone sees things like this , and whether things like cave art or ornamental art may have been derived from them a bit .
ca : that was an utterly , utterly fascinating talk .
thank you so much for sharing .
os : thank you . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / edith _ widder _ the _ weird _ and _ wonderful _ world _ of _ bioluminescence.html
in the deep , dark ocean , many sea creatures make their own light for hunting , mating and self-defense . bioluminescence expert edith widder was one of the first to film this glimmering world . at ted2011 , she brings some of her glowing friends onstage , and shows more astonishing footage of glowing undersea life .
biology , exploration , ocean , oceans , photography , science
1149
edith widder : the weird , wonderful world of bioluminescence
so i want to take you on a trip to an alien world .
and it 's not a trip that requires light-years of travel , but it 's to a place where it 's defined by light .
so it 's a little-appreciated fact that most of the animals in our ocean make light .
i 've spent most of my career studying this phenomenon called bioluminescence .
i study it because i think understanding it is critical to understanding life in the ocean where most bioluminescence occurs .
i also use it as a tool for visualizing and tracking pollution .
but mostly i 'm entranced by it .
since my my first dive in a deep-diving submersible , when i went down and turned out the lights and saw the fireworks displays , i 've been a bioluminescence junky .
but i would come back from those dives and try to share the experience with words , and they were totally inadequate to the task .
i needed some way to share the experience directly .
and the first time i figured out that way was in this little single-person submersible called deep rover .
this next video clip , you 're going to see how we stimulated the bioluminescence .
and the first thing you 're going to see is a transect screen that is about a meter across .
narrator : in front of the sub , a mess screen will come into contact with the soft-bodied creatures of the deep sea .
with the sub 's lights switched off , it is possible to see their bioluminescence -- the light produced when they collide with the mesh .
this is the first time it has ever been recorded .
edith widder : so i recorded that with an intensified video camera that has about the sensitivity of the fully dark-adapted human eye .
which means that really is what you would see if you took a dive in a submersible .
but just to try to prove that fact to you , i 've brought along some bioluminescent plankton in what is undoubtedly a foolhardy attempt at a live demonstration .
so , if we could have the lights down and have it as dark in here as possible , i have a flask that has bioluminescent plankton in it .
and you 'll note there 's no light coming from them right now , either because they 're dead -- or because i need to stir them up in some way for you to see what bioluminescence really looks like .
oops . sorry .
i spend most of my time working in the dark ; i 'm used to that .
okay .
so that light was made by a bioluminescent dinoflagellate , a single-celled alga .
so why would a single-celled alga need to be able to produce light ?
well , it uses it to defend itself from its predators .
the flash is like a scream for help .
it 's what 's known as a bioluminescent burglar alarm ,
and just like the alarm on your car or your house , it 's meant to cast unwanted attention onto the intruder , thereby either leading to his capture or scaring him away .
there 's a lot of animals that use this trick , for example this black dragonfish .
it 's got a light organ under its eye .
it 's got a chin barbel .
it 's got a lot of other light organs you can 't see , but you 'll see in here in a minute .
so we had to chase this in the submersible for quite sometime , because the top speed of this fish is one knot , which was the top speed of the submersible .
but it was worth it , because we caught it in a special capture device , brought it up into the lab on the ship , and then everything on this fish lights up .
it 's unbelievable .
the light organs under the eyes are flashing .
that chin barbel is flashing .
it 's got light organs on its belly that are flashing , fin lights .
it 's a scream for help ; it 's meant to attract attention .
it 's phenomenal .
and you normally don 't get to see this because we 've exhausted the luminescence when we bring them up in nets .
there 's other ways you can defend yourself with light .
for example , this shrimp releases its bioluminescent chemicals into the water just the way a squid or an octopus would release an ink cloud .
this blinds or distracts the predator .
this little squid is called the fire shooter because of its ability to do this .
now it may look like a tasty morsel , or a pig 's head with wings -- but if it 's attacked , it puts out a barrage of light -- in fact , a barrage of photon torpedoes .
i just barely got the lights out in time for you to be able to see those gobs of light hitting the transect screen and then just glowing .
it 's phenomenal .
so there 's a lot of animals in the open ocean -- most of them that make light .
and we have a pretty good idea , for most of them , why .
they use it for finding food , for attracting mates , for defending against predators .
but when you get down to the bottom of the ocean , that 's where things get really strange .
and some of these animals are probably inspiration for the things you saw in " avatar , "
but you don 't have to travel to pandora to see them .
they 're things like this .
this is a golden coral , a bush .
it grows very slowly .
in fact , it 's thought that some of these are as much as 3,000 years old , which is one reason that bottom trawling should not be allowed .
the other reason is this amazing bush glows .
so if you brush up against it , any place you brushed against it , you get this twinkling blue-green light that 's just breathtaking .
and you see things like this .
this looks like something out of a dr. seuss book -- just all manner of creatures all over this thing .
and these are flytrap anemones .
now if you poke it , it pulls in its tentacles .
but if you keep poking it , it starts to produce light .
and it actually ends up looking like a galaxy .
it produces these strings of light , presumably as some form of defense .
there are starfish that can make light .
and there are brittle stars that produce bands of light that dance along their arms .
this looks like a plant , but it 's actually an animal .
and it anchors itself in the sand by blowing up a balloon on the end of its stock .
so it can actually hold itself in very strong currents , as you see here .
but if we collect it very gently , and we bring it up into the lab and just squeeze it at the base of the stock , it produces this light that propagates from stem to the plume , changing color as it goes , from green to blue .
colorization and sound effects added for you viewing pleasure .
but we have no idea why it does that .
here 's another one . this is also a sea pen .
it 's got a brittle star hitching a ride .
it 's a green saber of light .
and like the one you just saw , it can produce these as bands of light .
so if i squeeze the base , the bands go from base to tip .
if i squeeze the tip , they go from tip to base .
so what do you think happens if you squeeze it in the middle ?
i 'd be very interested in your theories about what that 's about .
so there 's a language of light in the deep ocean , and we 're just beginning to understand it ,
and one way we 're going about that is we 're imitating a lot of these displays .
this is an optical lure that i 've used .
we call it the electronic jellyfish .
it 's just 16 blue leds that we can program to do different types of displays .
and we view it with a camera system i developed called eye-in-the-sea that uses far red light that 's invisible to most animals , so it 's unobtrusive .
so i just want to show you some of the responses we 've elicited from animals in the deep sea .
so the camera 's black and white .
it 's not high-resolution .
and what you 're seeing here is a bait box with a bunch of -- like the cockroaches of the ocean -- there are isopods all over it .
and right in the front is the electronic jellyfish .
and when it starts flashing , it 's just going to be one of the leds that 's flashing very fast . but as soon as it starts to flash -- and it 's going to look big , because it blooms on the camera -- i want you to look right here .
there 's something small there that responds . we 're talking to something .
it looks like a little of string pearls basically -- in fact , three strings of pearls .
and this was very consistent .
this was in the bahamas at about 2,000 feet .
we basically have a chat room going on here , because once it gets started , everybody 's talking .
and i think this is actually a shrimp that 's releasing its bioluminescent chemicals into the water .
but the cool thing is , we 're talking to it .
we don 't know what we 're saying .
personally , i think it 's something sexy .
and then finally , i want to show you some responses that we recorded with the world 's first deep-sea webcam , which we had installed in monterey canyon last year .
we 've only just begun to analyze all of this data .
this is going to be a glowing source first , which is like bioluminescent bacteria .
and it is an optical cue that there 's carrion on the bottom of the ocean .
so this scavenger comes in , which is a giant sixgill shark .
and i can 't claim for sure that the optical source brought it in , because there 's bait right there .
but if it had been following the odor plume , it would have come in from the other direction .
and it does actually seem to be trying to eat the electronic jellyfish .
that 's a 12-foot-long giant sixgill shark .
okay , so this next one is from the webcam , and it 's going to be this pinwheel display .
and this is a burglar alarm .
and that was a humboldt squid , a juvenile humboldt squid , about three feet long .
this is at 3,000 feet in monterey canyon .
but if it 's a burglar alarm , you wouldn 't expect it to attack the jellyfish directly .
it 's supposed to be attacking what 's attacking the jellyfish .
but we did see a bunch of responses like this .
this guy is a little more contemplative .
" hey , wait a minute .
there 's supposed to be something else there . "
he 's thinking about it .
but he 's persistent .
he keeps coming back .
and then he goes away for a few seconds to think about it some more , and thinks , " maybe if i come in from a different angle . "
nope .
so we are starting to get a handle on this , but only just the beginnings .
we need more eyes on the process .
so if any of you ever get a chance to take a dive in a submersible , by all means , climb in and take the plunge .
this is something that should be on everybody 's bucket list , because we live on an ocean planet .
more than 90 percent , 99 percent , of the living space on our planet is ocean .
it 's a magical place filled with breathtaking light shows and bizarre and wondrous creatures , alien life forms that you don 't have to travel to another planet to see .
but if you do take the plunge , please remember to turn out the lights .
but i warn you , it 's addictive .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / e _ o _ wilson _ advice _ to _ young _ scientists.html
" the world needs you , badly , " begins celebrated biologist e.o. wilson in his letter to a young scientist . previewing his upcoming book , he gives advice collected from a lifetime of experience -- reminding us that wonder and creativity are the center of the scientific life . < em > < / em >
ted prize , education , failure , math , science , storytelling , student , success , youth
1485
e.o. wilson : advice to young scientists
what i 'm going to do is to just give a few notes , and this is from a book i 'm preparing called " letters to a young scientist . " i 'd thought it 'd be appropriate to present it , on the basis that i have had extensive experience in teaching , counseling scientists across a broad array of fields .
and you might like to hear some of the principles that i 've developed in doing that teaching and counseling . so let me begin by urging you , particularly you on the youngsters ' side , on this path you 've chosen , to go as far as you can .
the world needs you , badly . humanity is now fully into the techno-scientific age .
there is going to be no turning back . although varying among disciplines -- say , astrophysics , molecular genetics , the immunology , the microbiology , the public health , to the new area of the human body as a symbiont , to public health , environmental science .
knowledge in medical science and science overall is doubling every 15 to 20 years . technology is increasing at a comparable rate . between them , the two already pervade , as most of you here seated realize , every dimension of human life . so swift is the velocity of the techno-scientific revolution , so startling in its countless twists and turns , that no one can predict its outcome even a decade from the present moment .
there will come a time , of course , when the exponential growth of discovery and knowledge , which actually began in the 1600s , has to peak and level off , but that 's not going to matter to you .
the revolution is going to continue for at least several more decades .
it 'll render the human condition radically different from what it is today .
traditional fields of study are going to continue to grow and in so doing , inevitably they will meet and create new disciplines .
in time , all of science will come to be a continuum of description , an explanation of networks , of principles and laws .
that 's why you need not just be training in one specialty , but also acquire breadth in other fields , related to and even distant from your own initial choice .
keep your eyes lifted and your head turning .
the search for knowledge is in our genes . it was put there by our distant ancestors who spread across the world , and it 's never going to be quenched . to understand and use it sanely , as a part of the civilization yet to evolve requires a vastly larger population of scientifically trained people like you .
in education , medicine , law , diplomacy , government , business and the media that exist today .
our political leaders need at least a modest degree of scientific literacy , which most badly lack today -- no applause , please .
it will be better for all if they prepare before entering office rather than learning on the job .
therefore you will do well to act on the side , no matter how far into the laboratory during the span of your career .
i 'll now proceed quickly , and before else , to a subject that is both a vital asset and a potential barrier to a scientific career .
if you are a bit short in mathematical skills ,
don 't worry . many of the most successful scientists at work today are mathematically semi-literate .
a metaphor will serve here : where elite mathematicians and statisticians and theorists often serve as architects in the expanding realm of science , the remaining large majority of basic applied scientists , including a large portion of those who could be said to be of the first rank , are the ones who map the terrain , they scout the frontiers , they cut the pathways , they raise the buildings along the way .
some may have considered me foolhardy , but it 's been my habit to brush aside the fear of mathematics when talking to candidate scientists . during 41 years of teaching biology at harvard , i watched sadly as bright students turned away from the possibility of a scientific career or even from taking non-required courses in science because they were afraid of failure .
these math-phobes deprive science and medicine of immeasurable amounts of badly needed talent . here 's how to relax your anxieties , if you have them : understand that mathematics is a language ruled like other verbal languages , or like verbal language generally , by its own grammar and system of logic .
any person with average quantitative intelligence who learns to read and write mathematics at an elementary level will , as in verbal language , have little difficulty picking up most of the fundamentals if they choose to master the mathspeak of most disciplines of science .
the longer you wait to become at least semi-literate the harder the language of mathematics will be to master , just as again in any verbal language , but it can be done at any age .
i speak as an authority on that subject , because i 'm an extreme case .
i didn 't take algebra until my freshman year at the university of alabama .
they didn 't teach it before then .
i finally got around to calculus as a 32-year-old tenured professor at harvard , where i sat uncomfortably in classes with undergraduate students , little more than half my age .
a couple of them were students in a course i was giving on evolutionary biology .
i swallowed my pride , and i learned calculus .
i found out that in science and all its applications , what is crucial is not that technical ability , but it is imagination in all of its applications .
the ability to form concepts with images of entities and processes pictured by intuition . i found out that advances in science rarely come upstream from an ability to stand at a blackboard and conjure images from unfolding mathematical propositions and equations .
they are instead the products of downstream imagination leading to hard work , during which mathematical reasoning may or may not prove to be relevant .
ideas emerge when a part of the real or imagined world is studied for its own sake .
of foremost importance is a thorough , well-organized knowledge of all that is known of the relevant entities and processes that might be involved in that domain you propose to enter .
when something new is discovered , it 's logical then that one of the follow-up steps is to find the mathematical and statistical methods to move its analysis forward .
if that step proves too difficult for the person or team that made the discovery , a mathematician can then be added by them as a collaborator .
consider the following principle , which i will modestly call wilson 's principle number one : it is far easier for scientists including medical researchers , to require needed collaboration in mathematics and statistics than it is for mathematicians and statisticians to find scientists able to make use of their equations .
it is important in choosing the direction to take in science to find the subject at your level of competence that interests you deeply , and focus on that .
keep in mind , then , wilson 's second principle : for every scientist , whether researcher , technician , teacher , manager or businessman , working at any level of mathematical competence , there exists a discipline in science or medicine for which that level is enough to achieve excellence .
now i 'm going to offer quickly several more principles that will be useful in organizing your education and career , or if you 're teaching , how you might enhance your own teaching and counseling of young scientists .
in selecting a subject in which to conduct original research , or to develop world-class expertise , take a part of the chosen discipline that is sparsely inhabited .
judge opportunity by how few other students and researchers are on hand .
this is not to de-emphasize the essential requirement of broad training , or the value of apprenticing yourself in ongoing research to programs of high quality .
it is important also to acquire older mentors within these successful programs , and to make friends and colleagues of your age for mutual support .
but through it all , look for a way to break out , to find a field and subject not yet popular .
we have seen this demonstrated already in the talks preceding mine .
there is the quickest way advances are likely to occur , as measured in discoveries per investigator per year .
you may have heard the military dictum for the gathering of armies : march to the sound of the guns .
in science , the exact opposite is the case : march away from the sound of the guns .
so wilson 's principle number three : march away from the sound of the guns .
observe from a distance , but do not join the fray .
make a fray of your own .
once you have settled on a specialty , and the profession you can love , and you 've secured opportunity , your potential to succeed will be greatly enhanced if you study it enough to become an expert .
there are thousands of professionally delimited subjects sprinkled through physics and chemistry to biology and medicine . and on then into the social sciences , where it is possible in short time to acquire the status of an authority .
when the subject is still very thinly populated , you can with diligence and hard work become the world authority . the world needs this kind of expertise , and it rewards the kind of people willing to acquire it .
the existing information and what you self-discover may at first seem skimpy and difficult to connect to other bodies of knowledge . well , if that 's the case , good . why hard instead of easy ?
the answer deserves to be stated as principle number four .
in the attempt to make scientific discoveries , every problem is an opportunity , and the more difficult the problem , the greater will be the importance of its solution .
now this brings me to a basic categorization in the way scientific discoveries are made .
scientists , pure mathematicians among them , follow one or the other of two pathways : first through early discoveries , a problem is identified and a solution is sought .
the problem may be relatively small ; for example , where exactly in a cruise ship does the norovirus begin to spread ?
or larger , what 's the role of dark matter in the expansion of the universe ?
as the answer is sought , other phenomena are typically discovered and other questions are asked .
this first of the two strategies is like a hunter , exploring a forest in search of a particular quarry , who finds other quarries along the way .
the second strategy of research is to study a subject broadly searching for unknown phenomena or patterns of known phenomena like a hunter in what we call " the naturalist 's trance , " the researcher of mind is open to anything interesting , any quarry worth taking .
the search is not for the solution of the problem , but for problems themselves worth solving .
the two strategies of research , original research , can be stated as follows , in the final principle i 'm going to offer you : for every problem in a given discipline of science , there exists a species or entity or phenomenon ideal for its solution .
and conversely , for every species or other entity or phenomenon , there exist important problems for the solution of which , those particular objects of research are ideally suited .
find out what they are .
you 'll find your own way to discover , to learn , to teach .
the decades ahead will see dramatic advances in disease prevention , general health , the quality of life . all of humanity depends on the knowledge and practice of the medicine and the science behind it you will master .
you have chosen a calling that will come in steps to give you satisfaction , at its conclusion , of a life well lived .
and i thank you for having me here tonight .
oh , thank you .
thank you very much .
i salute you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / drew _ berry _ animations _ of _ unseeable _ biology.html
we have no ways to directly observe molecules and what they do -- drew berry wants to change that . at tedxsydney he shows his scientifically accurate animations that help researchers see unseeable processes within our own cells .
arts , biology , science , visualizations
1322
drew berry : animations of unseeable biology
what i 'm going to show you are the astonishing molecular machines that create the living fabric of your body .
now molecules are really , really tiny .
and by tiny , i mean really .
they 're smaller than a wavelength of light , so we have no way to directly observe them .
but through science , we do have a fairly good idea of what 's going on down at the molecular scale .
so what we can do is actually tell you about the molecules , but we don 't really have a direct way of showing you the molecules .
one way around this is to draw pictures .
and this idea is actually nothing new .
scientists have always created pictures as part of their thinking and discovery process .
they draw pictures of what they 're observing with their eyes , through technology like telescopes and microscopes , and also what they 're thinking about in their minds .
i picked two well-known examples , because they 're very well-known for expressing science through art .
and i start with galileo who used the world 's first telescope to look at the moon .
and he transformed our understanding of the moon .
the perception in the 17th century was the moon was a perfect heavenly sphere .
but what galileo saw was a rocky , barren world , which he expressed through his watercolor painting .
another scientist with very big ideas , the superstar of biology , is charles darwin .
and with this famous entry in his notebook , he begins in the top left-hand corner with , " i think , " and then sketches out the first tree of life , which is his perception of how all the species , all living things on earth , are connected through evolutionary history -- the origin of species through natural selection and divergence from an ancestral population .
even as a scientist , i used to go to lectures by molecular biologists and find them completely incomprehensible , with all the fancy technical language and jargon that they would use in describing their work , until i encountered the artworks of david goodsell , who is a molecular biologist at the scripps institute .
and his pictures , everything 's accurate and it 's all to scale .
and his work illuminated for me what the molecular world inside us is like .
so this is a transection through blood .
in the top left-hand corner , you 've got this yellow-green area .
the yellow-green area is the fluids of blood , which is mostly water , but it 's also antibodies , sugars , hormones , that kind of thing .
and the red region is a slice into a red blood cell .
and those red molecules are hemoglobin .
they are actually red ; that 's what gives blood its color .
and hemoglobin acts as a molecular sponge to soak up the oxygen in your lungs and then carry it to other parts of the body .
i was very much inspired by this image many years ago , and i wondered whether we could use computer graphics to represent the molecular world .
what would it look like ?
and that 's how i really began . so let 's begin .
this is dna in its classic double helix form .
and it 's from x-ray crystallography , so it 's an accurate model of dna .
if we unwind the double helix and unzip the two strands , you see these things that look like teeth .
those are the letters of genetic code , the 25,000 genes you 've got written in your dna .
this is what they typically talk about -- the genetic code -- this is what they 're talking about .
but i want to talk about a different aspect of dna science , and that is the physical nature of dna .
it 's these two strands that run in opposite directions for reasons i can 't go into right now .
but they physically run in opposite directions , which creates a number of complications for your living cells , as you 're about to see , most particularly when dna is being copied .
and so what i 'm about to show you is an accurate representation of the actual dna replication machine that 's occurring right now inside your body , at least 2002 biology .
so dna 's entering the production line from the left-hand side , and it hits this collection , these miniature biochemical machines , that are pulling apart the dna strand and making an exact copy .
so dna comes in and hits this blue , doughnut-shaped structure and it 's ripped apart into its two strands .
one strand can be copied directly , and you can see these things spooling off to the bottom there .
but things aren 't so simple for the other strand because it must be copied backwards .
so it 's thrown out repeatedly in these loops and copied one section at a time , creating two new dna molecules .
now you have billions of this machine right now working away inside you , copying your dna with exquisite fidelity .
it 's an accurate representation , and it 's pretty much at the correct speed for what is occurring inside you .
i 've left out error correction and a bunch of other things .
this was work from a number of years ago .
thank you .
this is work from a number of years ago , but what i 'll show you next is updated science , it 's updated technology .
so again , we begin with dna .
and it 's jiggling and wiggling there because of the surrounding soup of molecules , which i 've stripped away so you can see something .
dna is about two nanometers across , which is really quite tiny .
but in each one of your cells , each strand of dna is about 30 to 40 million nanometers long .
so to keep the dna organized and regulate access to the genetic code , it 's wrapped around these purple proteins -- or i 've labeled them purple here .
it 's packaged up and bundled up .
all this field of view is a single strand of dna .
this huge package of dna is called a chromosome .
and we 'll come back to chromosomes in a minute .
we 're pulling out , we 're zooming out , out through a nuclear pore , which is the gateway to this compartment that holds all the dna called the nucleus .
all of this field of view is about a semester 's worth of biology , and i 've got seven minutes .
so we 're not going to be able to do that today ?
no , i 'm being told , " no . "
this is the way a living cell looks down a light microscope .
and it 's been filmed under time-lapse , which is why you can see it moving .
the nuclear envelope breaks down .
these sausage-shaped things are the chromosomes , and we 'll focus on them .
they go through this very striking motion that is focused on these little red spots .
when the cell feels it 's ready to go , it rips apart the chromosome .
one set of dna goes to one side , the other side gets the other set of dna -- identical copies of dna .
and then the cell splits down the middle .
and again , you have billions of cells undergoing this process right now inside of you .
now we 're going to rewind and just focus on the chromosomes and look at its structure and describe it .
so again , here we are at that equator moment .
the chromosomes line up .
and if we isolate just one chromosome , we 're going to pull it out and have a look at its structure .
so this is one of the biggest molecular structures that you have , at least as far as we 've discovered so far inside of us .
so this is a single chromosome .
and you have two strands of dna in each chromosome .
one is bundled up into one sausage .
the other strand is bundled up into the other sausage .
these things that look like whiskers that are sticking out from either side are the dynamic scaffolding of the cell .
they 're called mircrotubules . that name 's not important .
but what we 're going to focus on is this red region -- i 've labeled it red here -- and it 's the interface between the dynamic scaffolding and the chromosomes .
it is obviously central to the movement of the chromosomes .
we have no idea really as to how it 's achieving that movement .
we 've been studying this thing they call the kinetochore for over a hundred years with intense study , and we 're still just beginning to discover what it 's all about .
it is made up of about 200 different types of proteins , thousands of proteins in total .
it is a signal broadcasting system .
it broadcasts through chemical signals telling the rest of the cell when it 's ready , when it feels that everything is aligned and ready to go for the separation of the chromosomes .
it is able to couple onto the growing and shrinking microtubules .
it 's involved with the growing of the microtubules , and it 's able to transiently couple onto them .
it 's also an attention sensing system .
it 's able to feel when the cell is ready , when the chromosome is correctly positioned .
it 's turning green here because it feels that everything is just right .
and you 'll see , there 's this one little last bit that 's still remaining red .
and it 's walked away down the microtubules .
that is the signal broadcasting system sending out the stop signal .
and it 's walked away . i mean , it 's that mechanical .
it 's molecular clockwork .
this is how you work at the molecular scale .
so with a little bit of molecular eye candy , we 've got kinesins , which are the orange ones .
they 're little molecular courier molecules walking one way .
and here are the dynein . they 're carrying that broadcasting system .
and they 've got their long legs so they can step around obstacles and so on .
so again , this is all derived accurately from the science .
the problem is we can 't show it to you any other way .
exploring at the frontier of science , at the frontier of human understanding , is mind-blowing .
discovering this stuff is certainly a pleasurable incentive to work in science .
but most medical researchers --
discovering the stuff is simply steps along the path to the big goals , which are to eradicate disease , to eliminate the suffering and the misery that disease causes and to lift people out of poverty .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / howard _ rheingold _ on _ collaboration.html
howard rheingold talks about the coming world of collaboration , participatory media and collective action -- and how wikipedia is really an outgrowth of our natural human instinct to work as a group .
business , collaboration , communication , community , cooperation , culture , global issues , humanity , wikipedia
216
howard rheingold : the new power of collaboration
i 'm here to enlist you in helping reshape the story about how humans and other critters get things done . here is the old story -- we 've already heard a little bit about it :
biology is war in which only the fiercest survive ;
businesses and nations succeed only by defeating , destroying and dominating competition ;
politics is about your side winning at all costs .
but i think we can see the very beginnings of a new story beginning to emerge .
it 's a narrative spread across a number of different disciplines , in which cooperation , collective action and complex interdependencies play a more important role .
and the central , but not all-important , role of competition and survival of the fittest shrinks just a little bit to make room .
i started thinking about the relationship between communication , media and collective action when i wrote " smart mobs , " and i found that when i finished the book , i kept thinking about it .
in fact , if you look back , human communication media and the ways in which we organize socially have been co-evolving for quite a long time .
humans have lived for much , much longer than the approximately 10,000 years of settled agricultural civilization
in small family groups . nomadic hunters bring down rabbits , gathering food .
the form of wealth in those days was enough food to stay alive .
but at some point , they banded together to hunt bigger game .
and we don 't know exactly how they did this ,
although they must have solved some collective action problems ;
it only makes sense that you can 't hunt mastodons while you 're fighting with the other groups .
and again , we have no way of knowing , but it 's clear that a new form of wealth must have emerged .
more protein than a hunter 's family could eat before it rotted .
so that raised a social question that i believe must have driven new social forms .
did the people who ate that mastodon meat owe something to the hunters and their families ?
and if so , how did they make arrangements ?
again , we can 't know , but we can be pretty sure that some form of symbolic communication must have been involved .
of course , with agriculture came the first big civilizations , the first cities built of mud and brick , the first empires .
and it was the administers of these empires who began hiring people to keep track of the wheat and sheep and wine that was owed and the taxes that was owed on them by making marks ; marks on clay in that time .
not too much longer after that , the alphabet was invented .
and this powerful tool was really reserved , for thousands of years , for the elite administrators who kept track of accounts for the empires .
and then another communication technology enabled new media :
the printing press came along , and within decades , millions of people became literate .
and from literate populations , new forms of collective action emerged in the spheres of knowledge , religion and politics .
we saw scientific revolutions , the protestant reformation , constitutional democracies possible where they had not been possible before .
not created by the printing press , but enabled by the collective action that emerges from literacy .
and again , new forms of wealth emerged .
now , commerce is ancient . markets are as old as the crossroads .
but capitalism , as we know it , is only a few hundred years old , enabled by cooperative arrangements and technologies , such as the joint-stock ownership company , shared liability insurance , double-entry bookkeeping .
now of course , the enabling technologies are based on the internet ,
and in the many-to-many era , every desktop is now a printing press , a broadcasting station , a community or a marketplace .
evolution is speeding up .
more recently , that power is untethering and leaping off the desktops ,
and very , very quickly , we 're going to see a significant proportion , if not the majority of the human race , walking around holding , carrying or wearing supercomputers linked at speeds greater than what we consider to be broadband today .
now , when i started looking into collective action , the considerable literature on it is based on what sociologists call " social dilemmas . "
and there are a couple of mythic narratives of social dilemmas .
i 'm going to talk briefly about two of them : the prisoner 's dilemma and the tragedy of the commons .
now , when i talked about this with kevin kelly , he assured me that everybody in this audience pretty much knows the details of the prisoner 's dilemma ,
so i 'm just going to go over that very , very quickly .
if you have more questions about it , ask kevin kelly later .
the prisoner 's dilemma is actually a story that 's overlaid on a mathematical matrix that came out of the game theory in the early years of thinking about nuclear war : two players who couldn 't trust each other .
let me just say that every unsecured transaction is a good example of a prisoner 's dilemma .
person with the goods , person with the money , because they can 't trust each other , are not going to exchange .
neither one wants to be the first one or they 're going to get the sucker 's payoff ,
but both lose , of course , because they don 't get what they want .
if they could only agree , if they could only turn a prisoner 's dilemma into a different payoff matrix called an assurance game , they could proceed .
twenty years ago , robert axelrod used the prisoner 's dilemma as a probe of the biological question : if we are here because our ancestors were such fierce competitors , how does cooperation exist at all ?
he started a computer tournament for people to submit prisoner 's dilemma strategies and discovered , much to his surprise , that a very , very simple strategy won --
it won the first tournament , and even after everyone knew it won , it won the second tournament -- that 's known as tit for tat .
another economic game that may not be as well known as the prisoner 's dilemma is the ultimatum game ,
and it 's also a very interesting probe of our assumptions about the way people make economic transactions .
here 's how the game is played : there are two players ;
they 've never played the game before ,
they will not play the game again , they don 't know each other ,
and they are , in fact , in separate rooms .
first player is offered a hundred dollars and is asked to propose a split : 50 / 50 , 90 / 10 ,
whatever that player wants to propose . the second player either accepts the split -- both players are paid and the game is over --
or rejects the split -- neither player is paid and the game is over .
now , the fundamental basis of neoclassical economics would tell you it 's irrational to reject a dollar because someone you don 't know in another room is going to get 99 .
yet in thousands of trials with american and european and japanese students , a significant percentage would reject any offer that 's not close to 50 / 50 .
and although they were screened and didn 't know about the game and had never played the game before , proposers seemed to innately know this because the average proposal was surprisingly close to 50 / 50 .
now , the interesting part comes in more recently when anthropologists began taking this game to other cultures and discovered , to their surprise , that slash-and-burn agriculturalists in the amazon or nomadic pastoralists in central asia or a dozen different cultures -- each had radically different ideas of what is fair .
which suggests that instead of there being an innate sense of fairness , that somehow the basis of our economic transactions can be influenced by our social institutions , whether we know that or not .
the other major narrative of social dilemmas is the tragedy of the commons .
garrett hardin used it to talk about overpopulation in the late 1960s .
he used the example of a common grazing area in which each person by simply maximizing their own flock led to overgrazing and the depletion of the resource .
he had the rather gloomy conclusion that humans will inevitably despoil any common pool resource in which people cannot be restrained from using it .
now , elinor ostrom , a political scientist , in 1990 asked the interesting question that any good scientist should ask ,
which is : is it really true that humans will always despoil commons ?
so she went out and looked at what data she could find .
she looked at thousands of cases of humans sharing watersheds , forestry resources , fisheries , and discovered that yes , in case after case , humans destroyed the commons that they depended on .
but she also found many instances in which people escaped the prisoner 's dilemma ;
in fact , the tragedy of the commons is a multiplayer prisoner 's dilemma .
and she said that people are only prisoners if they consider themselves to be .
they escape by creating institutions for collective action .
and she discovered , i think most interestingly , that among those institutions that worked , there were a number of common design
principles , and those principles seem to be missing from those institutions that don 't work .
i 'm moving very quickly over a number of disciplines . in biology , the notions of symbiosis , group selection , evolutionary psychology are contested , to be sure .
but there is really no longer any major debate over the fact that cooperative arrangements have moved from a peripheral role to a central role in biology , from the level of the cell to the level of the ecology .
and again , our notions of individuals as economic beings have been overturned .
rational self-interest is not always the dominating factor .
in fact , people will act to punish cheaters , even at a cost to themselves .
and most recently , neurophysiological measures have shown that people who punish cheaters in economic games show activity in the reward centers of their brain .
which led one scientist to declare that altruistic punishment may be the glue that holds societies together .
now , i 've been talking about how new forms of communication and new media in the past have helped create new economic forms .
commerce is ancient . markets are very old . capitalism is fairly recent ;
socialism emerged as a reaction to that .
and yet we see very little talk about how the next form may be emerging .
jim surowiecki briefly mentioned yochai benkler 's paper about open source , pointing to a new form of production : peer-to-peer production .
i simply want you to keep in mind that if in the past , new forms of cooperation enabled by new technologies create new forms of wealth , we may be moving into yet another economic form that is significantly different from previous ones .
very briefly , let 's look at some businesses . ibm , as you know , hp , sun -- some of the most fierce competitors in the it world are open sourcing their software , are providing portfolios of patents for the commons .
eli lilly -- in , again , the fiercely competitive pharmaceutical world -- has created a market for solutions for pharmaceutical problems .
toyota , instead of treating its suppliers as a marketplace , treats them as a network and trains them to produce better , even though they are also training them to produce better for their competitors .
now none of these companies are doing this out of altruism ;
they 're doing it because they 're learning that a certain kind of sharing is in their self-interest .
open source production has shown us that world-class software , like linux and mozilla , can be created with neither the bureaucratic structure of the firm nor the incentives of the marketplace as we 've known them .
google enriches itself by enriching thousands of bloggers through adsense .
amazon has opened its application programming interface to 60,000 developers , countless amazon shops .
they 're enriching others , not out of altruism but as a way of enriching themselves .
ebay solved the prisoner 's dilemma and created a market where none would have existed by creating a feedback mechanism that turns a prisoner 's dilemma game into an assurance game .
instead of , " neither of us can trust each other , so we have to make suboptimal moves , " it 's , " you prove to me that you are trustworthy and i will cooperate . "
wikipedia has used thousands of volunteers to create a free encyclopedia with a million and a half articles in 200 languages in just a couple of years .
we 've seen that thinkcycle has enabled ngos in developing countries to put up problems to be solved by design students around the world , including something that 's being used for tsunami relief right now :
it 's a mechanism for rehydrating cholera victims that 's so simple to use it , illiterates can be trained to use it .
bittorrent turns every downloader into an uploader , making the system more efficient the more it is used .
millions of people have contributed their desktop computers when they 're not using them to link together through the internet into supercomputing collectives that help solve the protein folding problem for medical researchers --
that 's folding @ home at stanford --
to crack codes , to search for life in outer space .
i don 't think we know enough yet .
i don 't think we 've even begun to discover what the basic principles are ,
but i think we can begin to think about them .
and i don 't have enough time to talk about all of them ,
but think about self-interest .
this is all about self-interest that adds up to more .
in el salvador , both sides that withdrew from their civil war took moves that had been proven to mirror a prisoner 's dilemma strategy .
in the u.s. , in the philippines , in kenya , around the world , citizens have self-organized political protests and get out the vote campaigns using mobile devices and sms .
is an apollo project of cooperation possible ?
a transdisciplinary study of cooperation ?
i believe that the payoff would be very big .
i think we need to begin developing maps of this territory so that we can talk about it across disciplines .
and i am not saying that understanding cooperation and sometimes people cooperate to do bad things --
but i will remind you that a few hundred years ago , people saw their loved ones die from diseases they thought were caused by sin or foreigners or evil spirits .
descartes said we need an entire new way of thinking .
when the scientific method provided that new way of thinking and biology showed that microorganisms caused disease , suffering was alleviated .
what forms of suffering could be alleviated , what forms of wealth could be created if we knew a little bit more about cooperation ?
i don 't think that this transdisciplinary discourse is automatically going to happen ;
it 's going to require effort .
so i enlist you to help me get the cooperation project started .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / blaise _ aguera.html
in a demo that drew gasps at ted2010 , blaise aguera y arcas demos new augmented-reality mapping technology from microsoft .
design , map , technology
766
blaise aguera y arcas demos augmented-reality maps
about a year and a half ago , stephen lawler , who also gave a talk here at ted in 2007 on virtual earth , brought me over to become the architect of bing maps , which is microsoft 's online-mapping effort .
in the past two and a half , we 've been very hard at work on redefining the way maps work online .
and we really are seeing this in very different terms from the kind of mapping and direction site that one is used to .
so , the first thing that you might notice about the mapping site is just the fluidity of the zooming and the panning , which , if you 're familiar at all with seadragon , that 's where it comes from .
mapping is , of course , not just about cartography , it 's also about imagery .
so , as we zoom-in beyond a certain level this resolves into a kind of sim city-like virtual view at 45 degrees .
this can be viewed from any of the cardinal directions to show you the 3d structure of the city , all the facades .
now , we see this space , this three-dimensional environment , as being a canvas on which all sorts of applications can play out ,
and map 's directions are really just one of them .
if you click on this , you 'll see some of the ones that we 've put out , just in the past couple of months since we 've launched .
so , for example , a couple of days after the disaster in haiti , we had an earthquake map that showed before and after pictures from the sky .
this wonderful one which i don 't have time to show you is taking hyper-local blogs in real time and mapping those stories , those entries to the places that are referred to on the blogs .
it 's wonderful .
but i 'm going to show you some more candy sort of stuff .
so , we see the imagery , of course , not stopping at the sky .
these little green bubbles represent photosynths that users have made .
i 'm not going to dive into them either , but photosynths are integrated into the map .
everything that 's cased in blue is an area where we 've taken imagery on the ground as well .
and so , when you fly down -- thank you . when you fly down to the ground , and you see this kind of panoramic imagery , the first thing that you might notice is that it 's not just a picture , there 's just as much three-dimensional understanding of this environment as there is of the three-dimensional city from above , so if i click on something to get a closer view of it , then , the fact that that transition looks as it does , is a function of all of that geometry , all of that 3d understanding behind this model .
now , i 'll show you a fun app that -- we 've been working on a collaboration with our friends at flickr .
this takes flickr , georegistered imagery and uses photosynth-like processes to connect that imagery to our imagery , so -- i 'm not sure if that 's the one i actually meant to pull up , but -- but notice -- this is , of course , a popular tourist site , and there are lots of photos around here , and these photos are all taken at different times .
so this one was taken around five .
so that 's the flickr photo , that 's our imagery .
so you really see how this kind of crowd-sourced imagery is integrating , in a very deep way , into the map itself .
thank you .
there are several reasons why this is interesting and one of them , of course , is time travel .
and i 'm not going to show you some of the wonderful historic imagery in here , but there are some with horses and carriages and so on as well .
but what 's cool about this is that , not only is it augmenting this visual representation of the world with things that are coming in from users , but it also is the foundation for augmented reality , and that 's something that i 'll be showing you more of in just a moment .
now i just made a transition indoors . that 's also interesting .
ok , notice there 's now a roof above us .
we 're inside the pike place market .
and this is something that we 're able to do with a backpack camera ,
so , we 're now not only imaging in the street with this camera on tops of cars , but we 're also imaging inside .
and from here , we 're able to do the same sorts of registration , not only of still images , but also of video .
so this is something that we 're now going to try for the first time , live , and this is really , truly , very frightening .
ok .
all right , guys , are you there ?
all right . i 'm hitting it . i 'm punching play .
i 'm live . all right . there we go .
so , these are our friends in pike place market , the lab .
so they 're broadcasting this live .
ok , george , can you pan back over to the corner market ?
because i want to show points of interest .
no , no . the other way .
yeah , yeah , back to the corner , back to the corner .
i don 't want to see you guys yet .
ok , ok , back to the corner , back to the corner , back to the corner .
ok , never mind .
what i wanted to show you was these points of interest over here on top of the image because what that gives you a sense of is the way , if you 're actually on the spot ,
you can think about this -- this is taking a step in addition to augmented reality .
what the hell are you guys -- oh , sorry .
we 're doing two different --
ok , i 'm hanging up now .
we 're doing two different things here .
one of them is to take that real ...
all right , let me just take a moment and thank the team .
they 've done a fantastic job of pulling this together .
i 'm going to abandon them now and walk back outside .
and while i walk outside , i 'll just mention that here we 're using this for telepresence , but you can equally well use this on the spot , for augmented reality .
when you use it on the spot , it means that you 're able to bring all of that metadata and information about the world to you .
so here , we 're taking the extra step of also broadcasting it .
that was being broadcast , by the way , on a 4g network from the market .
all right , and now there 's one last ted talk that microsoft has given in the past several years .
and that 's curtis wong , worldwide telescope .
so , we 're going to head over to the dumpsters , where it 's traditional , after a long day at the market , to go out for a break , but also stare up at the sky .
this is the integration of worldwide telescope into our maps .
this is the current -- thank you -- this is the current time . if we scrub the time , then we can see how the sky will look at different times , and we can get all of this very detailed information about different times , different dates :
let 's move the moon a little higher in the sky , maybe change the date .
i would like to kind of zoom in on the moon .
so , this is an astronomically complete representation of the sky integrated right into the earth .
all right now , i 've overrun my time , so i 've got to stop .
thank you all very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / sophal _ ear _ escaping _ the _ khmer _ rouge.html
ted fellow sophal ear shares the compelling story of his family 's escape from cambodia under the rule of the khmer rouge . he recounts his mother 's cunning and determination to save her children .
asia , adventure , development , south asia , storytelling , third world , war
592
sophal ear : escaping the khmer rouge
i normally teach courses on how to rebuild states after war .
but today i 've got a personal story to share with you .
this is a picture of my family , my four siblings -- my mom and i -- taken in 1977 .
and we 're actually cambodians .
and this picture is taken in vietnam .
so how did a cambodian family end up in vietnam in 1977 ?
well to explain that , i 've got a short video clip to explain the khmer rouge regime during 1975 and 1979 .
video : april 17th , 1975 .
the communist khmer rouge enters phnom penh to liberate their people from the encroaching conflict in vietnam , and american bombing campaigns .
led by peasant-born pol pot , the khmer rouge evacuates people to the countryside in order to create a rural communist utopia , much like mao tse-tung 's cultural revolution in china .
the khmer rouge closes the doors to the outside world .
but after four years the grim truth seeps out .
in a country of only seven million people , one and a half million were murdered by their own leaders , their bodies piled in the mass graves of the killing fields .
sophal ear : so , notwithstanding the 1970s narration , on april 17th 1975 we lived in phnom penh .
and my parents were told by the khmer rouge to evacuate the city because of impending american bombing for three days .
and here is a picture of the khmer rouge .
they were young soldiers , typically child soldiers .
and this is very normal now , of modern day conflict ,
because they 're easy to bring into wars .
the reason that they gave about american bombing wasn 't all that far off .
i mean , from 1965 to 1973 there were more munitions that fell on cambodia than in all of world war ii japan , including the two nuclear bombs of august 1945 .
the khmer rouge didn 't believe in money .
so the equivalent of the federal reserve bank in cambodia was bombed .
but not just that , they actually banned money .
i think it 's the only precedent in which money has ever been stopped from being used .
and we know money is the root of all evil , but it didn 't actually stop evil from happening in cambodia , in fact .
my family was moved from phnom penh to pursat province .
this is a picture of what pursat looks like .
it 's actually a very pretty area of cambodia , where rice growing takes place .
and in fact they were forced to work the fields .
so my father and mother ended up in a sort of concentration camp , labor camp .
and it was at that time that my mother got word from the commune chief that the vietnamese were actually asking for their citizens to go back to vietnam .
and she spoke some vietnamese , as a child having grown up with vietnamese friends .
and she decided , despite the advice of her neighbors , that she would take the chance and claim to be vietnamese so that we could have a chance to survive ,
because at this point they 're forcing everybody to work .
and they 're giving about -- in a modern-day , caloric-restriction diet , i guess -- they 're giving porridge , with a few grains of rice .
and at about this time actually my father got very sick .
and he didn 't speak vietnamese .
so he died actually , in january 1976 .
and it made it possible , in fact , for us to take on this plan .
so the khmer rouge took us from a place called pursat to kaoh tiev ,
which is across from the border from vietnam .
and there they had a detention camp where alleged vietnamese would be tested , language tested .
and my mother 's vietnamese was so bad that to make our story more credible , she 'd given all the boys and girls new vietnamese names .
but she 'd given the boys girls ' names , and the girls boys ' names .
and it wasn 't until she met a vietnamese lady who told her this , and then tutored her for two days intensively , that she was able to go into her exam and -- you know , this was a moment of truth .
if she fails , we 're all headed to the gallows ;
if she passes , we can leave to vietnam .
and she actually , of course -- i 'm here , she passes .
and we end up in hong ngu on the vietnamese side .
and then onwards to chau doc .
and this is a picture of hong ngu , vietnam today .
a pretty idyllic place on the mekong delta .
but for us it meant freedom .
and freedom from persecution from the khmer rouge .
last year , the khmer rouge tribunal , which the u.n. is helping cambodia take on , started , and i decided that as a matter of record i should file a civil complaint with the tribunal about my father 's passing away .
and i got word last month that the complaint was officially accepted by the khmer rouge tribunal .
and it 's for me a matter of justice for history , and accountability for the future ,
because cambodia remains a pretty lawless place , at times .
five years ago my mother and i went back to chau doc .
and she was able to return to a place that for her meant freedom , but also fear , because we had just come out of cambodia .
i 'm happy , actually , today , to present her .
she 's here today with us in the audience .
thank you mother .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / inge _ missmahl _ brings _ peace _ to _ the _ minds _ of _ afghanistan.html
when jungian analyst inge missmahl visited afghanistan , she saw the inner wounds of war -- widespread despair , trauma and depression . and yet , in this county of 30 million people , there were only two dozen psychiatrists . missmahl talks about her work helping to build the country 's system of psychosocial counseling , promoting both individual and , perhaps , national healing .
brain , culture , global issues , peace , politics , potential , poverty , psychology , violence , war
968
inge missmahl brings peace to the minds of afghanistan
so i want to tell you a story -- an encouraging story -- about addressing desperation , depression and despair in afghanistan , and what we have learned from it , and how to help people to overcome traumatic experiences and how to help them to regain some confidence in the time ahead -- in the future -- and how to participate again in everyday life .
so , i am a jungian psychoanalyst , and i went to afghanistan in january 2004 , by chance , on an assignment for medica mondiale .
jung in afghanistan -- you get the picture .
afghanistan is one of the poorest countries in the world , and 70 percent of the people are illiterate .
war and malnutrition kills people together with hope .
you may know this from the media ,
but what you may not know is that the average age of the afghan people is 17 years old , which means they grow up in such an environment and -- i repeat myself -- in 30 years of war .
so this translates into ongoing violence , foreign interests , bribery , drugs , ethnic conflicts , bad health , shame , fear and cumulative traumatic experiences .
local and foreign military are supposed to build peace together with the donors and the governmental and non-governmental organizations .
and people had hope , yes , but until they realized their situation worsens every day -- either because they are being killed or because , somehow , they are poorer than eight years ago .
one figure for that : 54 percent of the children under the age of five years suffer from malnutrition .
yet , there is hope .
one day a man told me , " my future does not look brilliant , but i want to have a brilliant future for my son . "
this is a picture i took in 2005 , walking on fridays over the hills in kabul ,
and for me it 's a symbolic picture of an open future for a young generation .
so , doctors prescribe medication .
and donors are supposed to bring peace by building schools and roads .
military collect weapons , and depression stays intact .
why ?
because people don 't have tools to cope with it , to get over it .
so , soon after my arrival , i had confirmed something which i had already known ; that my instruments come from the heart of modern europe , yes .
however , what can wound us and our reaction to those wounds -- they are universal .
and the big challenge was how to understand the meaning of the symptom in this specific cultural context .
after a counseling session , a woman said to me , " because you have felt me , i can feel myself again , and i want to participate again in my family life . "
this was very important , because the family is central in afghans ' social system .
no one can survive alone .
and if people feel used , worthless and ashamed , because something horrible has happened to them , then they retreat , and they fall into social isolation , and they do not dare to tell this evil to other people or to their loved ones , because they do not want to burden them .
and very often violence is a way to cope with it .
traumatized people also easily lose control -- symptoms are hyper-arousal and memory flashbacks -- so people are in a constant fear that those horrible feelings of that traumatic event might come back unexpectedly , suddenly , and they cannot control it .
to compensate this loss of inner control , they try to control the outside , very understandably -- mostly the family -- and unfortunately , this fits very well into the traditional side , regressive side , repressive side , restrictive side of the cultural context .
so , husbands start beating wives , mothers and fathers beat their children , and afterward , they feel awful .
they did not want to do this , it just happened --
they lost control .
the desperate try to restore order and normality , and if we are not able to cut this circle of violence , it will be transferred to the next generation without a doubt .
and partly this is already happening .
so everybody needs a sense for the future ,
and the afghan sense of the future is shattered .
but let me repeat the words of the woman . " because you have felt me , i can feel myself again . "
so the key here is empathy .
somebody has to be a witness to what has happened to you .
somebody has to feel how you felt .
and somebody has to see you and listen to you .
everybody must be able to know what he or she has experienced is true ,
and this only goes with another person .
so everybody must be able to say , " this happened to me , and it did this with me , but i 'm able to live with it , to cope with it , and to learn from it .
and i want to engage myself in the bright future for my children and the children of my children , and i will not marry-off my 13 year-old daughter , " -- what happens too often in afghanistan .
so something can be done , even in such extreme environments as afghanistan .
and i started thinking about a counseling program .
but , of course , i needed help and funds .
and one evening , i was sitting next to a very nice gentleman in kabul , and he asked what i thought would be good in afghanistan .
and i explained to him quickly , i would train psycho-social counselors , i would open centers , and i explained to him why .
this man gave me his contact details at the end of the evening and said , " if you want to do this , call me . "
at that time , it was the head of caritas germany .
so , i was able to launch a three-year project with caritas germany , and we trained 30 afghan women and men , and we opened 15 counseling centers in kabul .
this was our sign -- it 's hand-painted ,
and we had 45 all over kabul .
eleven thousand people came -- more than that .
and 70 percent regained their lives .
this was a very exciting time , developing this with my wonderful afghan team .
and they are working with me up to today .
we developed a culturally-sensitive psycho-social counseling approach .
so , from 2008 up until today , a substantial change and step forward has been taking place .
the european union delegation in kabul came into this and hired me to work inside the ministry of public health , to lobby this approach --
we succeeded .
we revised the mental health component of the primary health care services by adding psycho-social care and psycho-social counselors to the system .
this means , certainly , to retrain all health staff .
but for that , we already have the training manuals , which are approved by the ministry and moreover , this approach is now part of the mental health strategy in afghanistan .
so we also have implemented it already in some selected clinics in three provinces , and you are the first to see the results .
we wanted to know if what is being done is effective .
and here you can see the patients all had symptoms of depression , moderate and severe .
and the red line is the treatment as usual -- medication with a medical doctor .
and all the symptoms stayed the same or even got worse .
and the green line is treatment with psycho-social counseling only , without medication .
and you can see the symptoms almost completely go away , and the psycho-social stress has dropped significantly , which is explicable , because you cannot take away the psycho-social stresses , but you can learn how to cope with them .
so this makes us very happy , because now we also have some evidence that this is working .
so here you see , this is a health facility in northern afghanistan , and every morning it looks like this all over .
and doctors usually have three to six minutes for the patients ,
but now this will change .
they go to the clinics , because they want to cure their immediate symptoms , and they will find somebody to talk to and discuss these issues and talk about what is burdening them and find solutions , develop their resources , learn tools to solve their family conflicts and gain some confidence in the future .
and i would like to share one short vignette .
one hazara said to his pashtun counselor , " if we were to have met some years ago , then we would have killed each other .
and now you are helping me to regain some confidence in the future . "
and another counselor said to me after the training , " you know , i never knew why i survived the killings in my village ,
but now i know , because i am part of a nucleus of a new peaceful society in afghanistan . "
so i believe this kept me running .
and this is a really emancipatory and political contribution to peace and reconciliation .
and also -- i think -- without psycho-social therapy , and without considering this in all humanitarian projects , we cannot build-up civil societies .
i thought it was an idea worth spreading , and i think it must be , can be , could be replicated elsewhere .
i thank you for your attention .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jose _ abreu _ on _ kids _ transformed _ by _ music.html
jose antonio abreu is the charismatic founder of a youth orchestra system that has transformed thousands of kids ' lives in venezuela . here he shares his amazing story and unveils a ted prize wish that could have a big impact in the us and beyond .
ted prize , ted2009 , arts , culture , education , entertainment , global issues , music , philanthropy , poverty
464
jose abreu on kids transformed by music
chris anderson : let 's now see the extraordinary speech that we captured a couple weeks ago .
jose antonio abreu : my dear friends , ladies and gentlemen , i am overjoyed today at being awarded the ted prize on behalf of all the distinguished music teachers , artists and educators from venezuela who have selflessly and loyally accompanied me for 35 years in founding , growing and developing in venezuela the national system of youth and children 's orchestras and choirs .
since i was a boy , in my early childhood , i always wanted to be a musician ,
and , thank god , i made it .
from my teachers , my family and my community , i had all the necessary support to become a musician .
all my life i 've dreamed that all venezuelan children have the same opportunity that i had .
from that desire and from my heart stemmed the idea to make music a deep and global reality for my country .
from the very first rehearsal , i saw the bright future ahead .
because the rehearsal meant a great challenge to me .
i had received a donation of 50 music stands to be used by 100 boys in that rehearsal .
when i arrived at the rehearsal , only 11 kids had shown up , and i said to myself , " do i close the program or multiply these kids ? "
i decided to face the challenge , and on that same night , i promised those 11 children i 'd turn our orchestra into one of the leading orchestras in the world .
two months ago , i remembered that promise i made , when a distinguished english critic published an article in the london times , asking who could be the winner of the orchestra world cup .
he mentioned four great world orchestras , and the fifth one was venezuela 's youth symphony orchestra .
today we can say that art in latin america is no longer a monopoly of elites and that it has become a social right , a right for all the people .
child : there is no difference here between classes , nor white or black , nor if you have money or not .
simply , if you are talented , if you have the vocation and the will to be here , you get in . you share with us and make music .
ja : during the recent tour by the simon bolivar youth orchestra of venezuela of u.s. and europe , we saw how our music moved young audiences to the bottom of their souls , how children and adolescents rushed up to the stage to receive the jackets from our musicians , how the standing ovations , sometimes 30 minutes long , seemed to last forever , and how the public , after the concert was over , went out into the street to greet our young people in triumph .
this meant not only an artistic triumph , but also a profound emotional sympathy between the public of the most advanced nations of the world and the musical youth of latin america , as seen in venezuela , giving these audiences a message of music , vitality , energy , enthusiasm and strength .
in its essence , the orchestra and the choir are much more than artistic structures . they are examples and schools of social life , because to sing and to play together means to intimately coexist toward perfection and excellence , following a strict discipline of organization and coordination in order to seek the harmonic interdependence
of voices and instruments .
that 's how they build a spirit of solidarity and fraternity among them , develop their self-esteem and foster the ethical and aesthetical values
related to the music in all its senses .
this is why music is immensely important in the awakening of sensibility , in the forging of values and in the training of youngsters
to teach other kids .
child : after all this time here , music is life . nothing else .
music is life .
ja : each teenager and child in el sistema has his own story , and they are all important and of great significance to me .
let me mention the case of edicson ruiz .
he is a boy from a parish in caracas who passionately attended to his double bass lessons at the san agustin 's junior orchestra .
with his effort , and the support of his mother , his family and his community , he became a principal member in the double bass segment of the berlin philharmonic orchestra .
we have another well-known case -- gustavo dudamel .
he started as a boy member of the children 's orchestra in his hometown , barquisimeto .
there , he grew as a violinist and as a conductor .
he became the conductor of venezuela 's junior orchestras , and today conducts the world 's greatest orchestras .
he is the musical director of los angeles philharmonic , and is still the overall leader of venezuela 's junior orchestras .
he was the conductor of the gothenburg symphony orchestra , and he 's an unbeatable example for young musicians in latin america and the world .
the structure of el sistema is based on a new and flexible managing style adapted to the features of each community and region , and today attends to 300,000 children of the lower and middle class all over venezuela .
it 's a program of social rescue and deep cultural transformation designed for the whole venezuelan society with absolutely no distinctions whatsoever , but emphasizing the vulnerable and endangered social groups .
the effect of el sistema is felt in three fundamental circles : in the personal / social circle ,
in the family circle and in the community .
in the personal / social circle , the children in the orchestras and choirs develop their intellectual and emotional side .
the music becomes a source for developing the dimensions of the human being , thus elevating the spirit and leading man to a full development of his personality .
so , the emotional and intellectual profits are huge -- the acquisition of leadership , teaching and training principles , the sense of commitment , responsibility , generosity and dedication to others , and the individual contribution to achieve great collective goals .
all this leads to the development of self-esteem and confidence .
mother teresa of calcutta insisted on something that always impressed me : the most miserable and tragic thing about poverty is not the lack of bread or roof , but the feeling of being no-one -- the feeling of not being anyone , the lack of identification , the lack of public esteem .
that 's why the child 's development in the orchestra and the choir provides him with a noble identity and makes him a role model for his family and community .
it makes him a better student at school because it inspires in him a sense of responsibility , perseverance and punctuality that will greatly help him at school .
within the family , the parents ' support is unconditional .
the child becomes a role model for both his parents , and this is very important for a poor child .
once the child discovers he is important to his family , he begins to seek new ways of improving himself and hopes better for himself and his community .
also , he hopes for social and economic improvements for his own family .
all this makes up a constructive and ascending social dynamic .
the large majority of our children belong , as i already mentioned , to the most vulnerable strata of the venezuelan population .
that encourages them to embrace new dreams , new goals , and progress in the various opportunities
that music has to offer .
finally , in the circle of the community , the orchestras prove to be the creative spaces of culture and sources of exchange and new meanings .
the spontaneity music has excludes it as a luxury item and makes it a patrimony of society .
it 's what makes a child play a violin at home , while his father works in his carpentry .
it 's what makes a little girl play the clarinet at home , while her mother does the housework .
the idea is that the families join with pride and joy in the activities of the orchestras and the choirs
that their children belong to .
the huge spiritual world that music produces in itself , which also lies within itself , ends up overcoming material poverty .
from the minute a child 's taught how to play an instrument , he 's no longer poor . he becomes a child in progress heading for a professional level , who 'll later become a full citizen .
needless to say that music is the number one prevention against prostitution , violence , bad habits , and everything degrading in the life of a child .
a few years ago , historian arnold toynbee said that the world was suffering a huge spiritual crisis .
not an economic or social crisis , but a spiritual one .
i believe that to confront such a crisis , only art and religion can give proper answers to humanity , to mankind 's deepest aspirations , and to the historic demands of our times .
education -- the synthesis of wisdom and knowledge -- is the means to strive for a more perfect , more aware , more noble and more just society .
with passion and enthusiasm we pay profound respects to ted for its outstanding humanism , the scope of its principles , for its open and generous promotion of young values .
we hope that ted can contribute in a full and fundamental way to the building of this new era in the teaching of music , in which the social , communal , spiritual and vindicatory aims of the child and the adolescent become a beacon and a goal for a vast social mission .
no longer putting society at the service of art , and much less at the services of monopolies of the elite , but instead art at the service of society , at the service of the weakest , at the service of the children , at the service of the sick , at the service of the vulnerable , and at the service of all those who cry for vindication through the spirit of their human condition and the raising up of their dignity .
ca : we are going live now to caracas . we are going live to caracas to hear maestro abreu 's ted prize wish .
ja : here is my ted prize wish : i wish that you 'll help to create and document a special training program for 50 gifted young musicians , passionate about their art and social justice , and dedicated to bringing el sistema to the united states
and other countries .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / nicholas _ negroponte _ in _ 1984 _ makes _ 5 _ predictions.html
with surprising accuracy , nicholas negroponte predicts what will happen with cd-roms , web interfaces , service kiosks , the touchscreen interface of the iphone and his own one laptop per child project .
demo , design , education , entertainment , future , interface design , media , technology
230
nicholas negroponte , in 1984 , makes 5 predictions
in this rather long sort of marathon presentation , i 've tried to break it up into three parts : the first being a whole lot of examples on how it can be a little bit more pleasurable to deal with a computer and really address the qualities of the human interface .
and these will be some simple design qualities and they will also be some qualities of , if you will , the intelligence of interaction .
then the second part will really just be examples of new technologies -- new media falling very much into that mold .
again , i will go through them as fast as possible .
and then the last one will be some examples i 've been able to collect , which i think illustrate this at least as best i can , in the world of entertainment .
people have this belief -- and i share most of it -- that we will be using the tv screens or their equivalents for electronic books of the future . but then you think , " my god ! what a terrible image you get when you look at still pictures on tv . "
well , it doesn 't have to be terrible .
and that is a slide taken from a tv set and it was pre-processed to be very sympathetic to the tv medium , and it absolutely looks beautiful .
well , what 's happened ? how did people get into this mess ?
where you are now , all of a sudden , sitting in front of personal computers and video text -- teletext systems , and somewhat horrified by what you see on the screen ?
well , you have to remember that tv was designed to be looked at eight times the distance of the diagonal .
so you get a 13-inch , 19-inch , whatever , tv ,
and then you should multiply that by eight and that 's the distance you should sit away from the tv set .
now we 've put people 18 inches in front of a tv , and all the artifacts that none of the original designers expected to be seen , all of a sudden , are staring you in the face : the shadow mask , the scan lines , all of that .
and they can be treated very easily ;
there are actually ways of getting rid of them ,
there are actually ways of just making absolutely beautiful pictures .
i 'm talking here a little bit about display technologies .
let me talk about how you might input information .
and my favorite example is always fingers . i 'm very interested in touch-sensitive displays . high-tech , high-touch . isn 't that what some of you said ?
it 's certainly a very important medium for input ,
and a lot of people think that fingers are a very low-resolution sort of stylus for inputting to a display .
in fact , they 're not : it 's really a very , very high-resolution input medium --
you have to just do it twice , you have to touch the screen and then rotate your finger slightly --
and you can move a cursor with great accuracy .
and so when you see on the market these systems that have just a few light emitting diodes on the side and are very low resolution , it 's nice that they exist because it still is better than nothing .
but it , in some sense , misses the point : namely , that fingers are a very , very high-resolution input medium .
now , what are some of the other advantages ?
well , the one advantage is that you don 't have to pick them up ,
and people don 't realize how important that is -- not having to pick up your fingers to use them .
when you think for a second of the mouse on macintosh -- and i will not criticize the mouse too much -- when you 're typing -- what you have -- you want to now put something -- first of all , you 've got to find the mouse .
you have to probably stop . maybe not come to a grinding halt , but you 've got to sort of find that mouse . then you find the mouse , and you 're going to have to wiggle it a little bit to see where the cursor is on the screen .
and then when you finally see where it is , then you 've got to move it to get the cursor over there , and then -- " bang " -- you 've got to hit a button or do whatever .
that 's four separate steps versus typing and then touching and typing and just doing it all in one motion -- or one-and-a-half , depending on how you want to count .
again , what i 'm trying to do is just illustrate the kinds of problems that i think face the designers of new computer systems and entertainment systems and educational systems from the perspective of the quality of that interface .
and another advantage , of course , of using fingers is you have 10 of them .
and we have never known how to do this technically ,
so this slide is a fake slide .
we never succeeded in using ten fingers , but there are certain things you can do , obviously , with more than one-finger input , which is rather fascinating .
what we did stumble across was something ... again , which is typical of the computer field , is when you have a bug that you can 't get rid of you turn it into a feature .
and maybe ... maybe a mouse is a new kind of bug .
but the bug in our case was in touch-sensitive displays :
we wanted to be able to draw -- you know , rub your finger across the screen to input continuous points --
and there was just too much friction created between your finger and the glass -- if glass was the substrate , which it usually is .
so we found that that actually was a feature in the sense you could build a pressure-sensitive display .
and when you touch it with your finger , you can actually , then , introduce all the forces on the face of that screen , and that actually has a certain amount of value .
let me see if i can load another disc and show you , quickly , an example .
now , imagine a screen , which is not only touch-sensitive now , it 's pressure-sensitive .
and it 's pressure-sensitive to the forces both in the plane of the screen -- x , y , and z at least in one direction ; we couldn 't figure out how to come in the other direction .
but let me get rid of the slide ,
and let 's see if this comes on .
ok . so there is the pressure-sensitive display in operation .
the person 's just , if you will , pushing on the screen to make a curve .
but this is the interesting part .
i want to stop it for a second because the movie is very badly made .
and the particular display was built about six years ago , and when we moved from one room to another room , a rather large person sat on it and it got destroyed .
so all we have is this record .
but imagine that screen having lots of objects on it
and the person has touched an object -- one of n -- like he did there , and then pushed on it .
now , imagine a program where some of those objects are physically heavy and some are light :
one is an anvil on a fuzzy rug and the other one is a ping-pong ball on a sheet of glass .
and when you touch it , you have to really push very hard to move that anvil across the screen ,
and yet you touch the ping-pong ball very lightly and it just scoots across the screen .
and what you can do -- oops , i didn 't mean to do that -- what you can do is actually feed back to the user the feeling of the physical properties .
so again , they don 't have to be weight ;
they could be a general trying to move troops , and he 's got to move an aircraft carrier versus a little boat .
in fact , they funded it for that very reason .
the whole notion , then , is one that at the interface there are physical properties in that transducer -- in this case it 's pressure and touches -- that allow you to present things to the user that you could never present before .
so it 's not simply looking at the quality or , if you will , the luxury of that interface , but it 's actually looking at the idea of presenting things that previously couldn 't be presented before .
i want to move on to another example , which is one of a different sort , where we 're trying to use computer and video disc technology now to come up with a new kind of book .
here , the idea is that you 're going to take this book , if you will , and it 's going to come alive .
you 're going to sort of breathe life into it .
we are so used to doing monologues .
filmmakers , for example , are the experts in monologue making :
you make a film and it has a well-formed beginning , middle and end ,
and in some sense the art of it is that .
and you then say , " there 's an opportunity for making conversational movies . " well , what does that mean ?
and it sort of nibbles at the core of the whole profession and all the assumptions of that medium .
so , book writing is the same thing .
what i 'll show you very quickly is a new kind of book where it is mixed now with ... all sorts of things live in there , but you have to keep a few things in mind .
one is that this book knows about itself .
each frame of the movie has information about itself .
so it knows , or at least there is computer-readable information in the medium itself . it 's just not a static movie frame .
that 's one thing . the other is that you have to realize that it is a random access medium , and you can , in fact , branch and expand and elaborate and shrink .
and here -- again , my favorite example -- is the cookbook , the " larousse gastronomique . "
and i think i use the example all too often , but it 's a great one because there is a classic ending in that little encyclopedia-style cookbook that tells you how to do something like penguin , and you get to the end of the recipe and it says , " cook until done . "
now , that would be , if you will , the top green track , which doesn 't mean too much . but you might have to elaborate for me or for somebody who isn 't an expert , and say , " cook at 380 degrees for 45 minutes . "
and then for a real beginner , you would go down even further and elaborate more -- say , " open the oven , preheat , wait for the light to go out , open the door , don 't leave it open too long , put the penguin in and shut the door ... " whatever .
and that 's a much more elaborate one than you dribble back .
that 's one kind of use of random access . and the other is where you want to explain the same thing in different ways .
if you 're in a classroom situation and somebody asks a question , the last thing you do is repeat what you just said .
you try and think of a different way of saying the same thing , or if you know the particular student and that student 's cognitive style , then you might say it in a way that you think would have a good impedance match with that student .
there are all sorts of techniques you will use -- and again , this is a different kind of branching .
so , what i will show you is ... it 's a rather boring book , but i 'm afraid sometimes you have to do boring books because your sponsors aren 't necessarily interested in fiction and entertainment . and this is a book on how to repair a transmission .
now , i don 't even know what vintage the transmission is , but let me just show you very quickly some of it , and we 'll move on .
nicholas negroponte : now , this is his table of contents .
just a picture of the transmission , and as you rub your finger across the transmission
it highlights the various parts .
narrator : when i find a chapter that i want to see , i just touch the text and the system will format pages for me to read .
the words or phrases that are lit up in red are glossary words , so i can get a different definition by just touching the word , and the definition appears , superimposed over the illustration .
nn : this is about the oil pan , or the oil filter and all that .
this is relatively important because it sets the page ... narrator : this is another example of a page with glossary words highlighted in red .
i can get a definition of these words just by touching them , and the definition will appear in the illustration corner .
i can get back to the illustration , but in this case it 's not a single frame ,
but it 's actually a movie of someone coming into the frame and doing the repair that 's described in the text .
the two-headed slider is a speed control that allows me to watch the movie at various speeds , in forward or reverse .
and the movie is displayed as a full frame movie .
i can go back to the beginning ... and play the movie at full speed .
here 's another step-by-step procedure , only in this case -- nn : okay , this movie is ... everybody 's heard of sound-sync movies --
this is text-sync movies , so as the movie plays , the text gets highlighted . we highlight the text as we go through the movie .
repairman : ... not too far out . front poles , preferably .
don 't loosen them too far . if you loosen them too far , you 'll have a big mess .
nn : i suspect that some of you might not even understand that language .
ok . i 'm at the third and last part of this , which i said i would make an attempt to at least give you some examples that may be more directly related to the world of entertainment .
and of course , good education has got to be good entertainment ,
so my first example will be drawn from a very recent experiment that we 've been doing -- in this case , in senegal -- where we have tried to use personal computers as a pedagogical medium . but not as teaching machines at all ;
the whole notion is to use this as an instrument where there is a complete reversal of roles --
the child is , if you will , the teacher and the machine is the student --
and the art of computer programming is a vehicle that sort of approximates thinking about thinking .
but teaching kids programming per se is utterly irrelevant .
and there are just a few slides i want to go through , but there 's a story i 'd like to tell . and that was when , before we did this in any developing countries -- we 're doing it , in fact , in three developing countries right now : pakistan , colombia and senegal --
we did it in some pretty rough areas of new york city .
and one child , whose name i 've forgotten , was about seven or eight years old , absolutely considered mentally handicapped -- couldn 't read , didn 't even make it in the lowest section of the school 's classes --
and was pretty much not in school , though physically there .
but did hang around the , quote , " computer room , " where there were quite a few computers , and learned this particular language called logo --
and learned it with great ease and found it a lot of fun ,
it was very interesting . and one day , by chance , some visitors from the nie came by in their double-breasted suits looking at this setup , and none of the children who were normally there , except for this one child , were there .
he was , and he said , " let me show you how this works , "
and they got an absolutely ingenuous , wonderful description of logo .
and the child was just zipping right through it , showing them all sorts of things until they asked him how to do something which he couldn 't explain
and so he flipped through the manual , found the explanation and typed the command and got it to do what they asked .
they were delighted , and by the time it was time to go see the principal , whom they 'd actually come to see -- not the computer room -- they went upstairs and they said , " this is absolutely remarkable !
that child was very articulate and showed us and even dealt with the things he couldn 't do automatically with that manual . it was just absolutely fantastic . "
the principal said , " there 's a dreadful mistake , because that child can 't read .
and you obviously have been hoodwinked or you 've talked about somebody else . "
and they all got up and they all went downstairs
and the child was still there . and they did something very intelligent : they asked the child , " can you read ? "
and the child said , " no , i can 't . "
and then they said , " but wait a minute . you just looked through that manual and you found ... " and he said , " oh , but that 's not reading . "
and so they said , " well , what 's reading then ? "
he says , " well , reading is this junk they give me in little books to read .
it 's absolutely irrelevant , and i get nothing for it .
but here , with a little bit of effort i get a lot of return . "
and it really meant something to the child .
the child read beautifully , it turned out , and was really very competent . so it actually meant something .
and that story has many other anecdotes that are similar , but wow . the key to the future of computers in education is right there ,
and it is : when does it mean something to a child ?
there is a myth , and it truly is a myth : we believe -- and i 'm sure a lot of you believe in this room -- that it is harder to read and write than it is to learn how to speak .
and it 's not , but we think speech -- " my god , little children pick it up somehow ,
and by the age of two they 're doing a mediocre job ,
and by three and four they 're speaking reasonably well .
and yet you 've got to go to school to learn how to read ,
and you have to sit in a classroom and somebody has to teach you . hence , it must be harder . " well , it 's not harder .
what the truth is is that speaking has great value to a child ;
the child can get a great deal by talking to you .
reading and writing is utterly useless .
there is no reason for a child to read and write except blind faith , and that it 's going to help you .
so what happens is you go to school and people say , " just believe me , you 're going to like it .
you 're going to like reading , " and just read and read .
on the other hand , you give a kid -- a three-year-old kid -- a computer
and they type a little command and -- poof ! -- something happens .
and all of a sudden ... you may not call that reading and writing , but a certain bit of typing and reading stuff on the screen has a huge payoff , and it 's a lot of fun .
and in fact , it 's a powerful educational instrument .
well , in senegal we found that this was the traditional classroom : 120 kids -- three per desk -- one teacher , a little bit of chalk .
this student was one of our first students , and it 's the girl on the left leaning with her chalkboard ,
and she came ... within two days -- i want to show you the program she wrote , and remember her hairstyle . and that is the program she made .
that 's what meant something to her , is doing the hair pattern , and actually did it within two days -- an hour each day -- and found it was , to her , absolutely the most meaningful piece ...
but rooted in that , little did she know how much knowledge she was acquiring about geometry and just math and logic and all the rest .
and again , i could talk for three hours about this subject .
i will come to my last example and then quit .
and my last example -- as some of my former colleagues , whom i see in the room , can imagine what it will be .
yes , it is . it 's our work -- that was a while ago , and it still is my favorite project -- of teleconferencing .
and the reason it remains a favorite project is that we were asked to do a teleconferencing system where you had the following situation : you had five people at five different sites -- they were known people --
and you had to have these people in teleconference , such that each one was utterly convinced that the other four were physically present .
now , that is sufficiently zany that we would , obviously , jump to the bait , and we did .
and the fact that we knew the people -- we had to take a page out of the history of walt disney --
we actually went so far as to build crts in the shapes of the people 's faces .
so if i wanted to call my friend peter sprague on the phone , my secretary would get his head out and bring it and set it on the desk ,
and that would be the tv used for the occasion .
and it 's uncanny : there 's no way i can explain to you the amount of eye contact you get with that physical face projected on a 3d crt of that sort .
the next thing that we had to do is to persuade them that there needed to be spatial correspondence , which is straightforward , but again , it 's something that didn 't fall naturally out of a telecommunications or computing style of thinking ;
it was a very , if you will , architectural or spatial concept . and that was to recognize that when you sit around the table , the actual location of the people becomes rather important .
and when somebody gets up , in fact , to go answer a phone or use a bathroom or something , the empty seat becomes , if you will , that person . and you point frequently to the empty seat and you say , " he or she wouldn 't agree , "
and the empty chair is that person and the spatiality is crucial .
so we said , " well , these will be on round tables and the order around the table had to be the same ,
so that at my site , i would be , if you will , real
and then at each other 's site you 'd have these plastic heads .
and the plastic heads , sometimes you want to project them . and there are a number of schemes , which i don 't want to dwell on ,
but this is the one that we finally used where we projected onto rear screen material that was molded in the face -- literally in the face of the person .
and i 'll show you one more slide , where this is actually made from something called a solid photograph and is the screen .
now , we track , on the person 's head , the head motions --
so we transmit with a video the head positions --
and so this head moves in about two axes .
so if i , all of a sudden , turn to the person to my left and start talking to that person , then at the person to my right 's site , he 'll see these two plastic heads talking to each other .
and then if that person interrupts , then those two heads may turn .
and it really is reconstructing , quite accurately , teleconferencing .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eric _ dishman _ take _ health _ care _ off _ the _ mainframe.html
at tedmed , eric dishman makes a bold argument : the us health care system is like computing circa 1959 , tethered to big , unwieldy central systems : hospitals , doctors , nursing homes . as our aging population booms , it 's imperative , he says , to create personal , networked , home-based health care for all .
business , health , health care , science , technology
797
eric dishman : take health care off the mainframe
if you think about the phone -- and intel has tested a lot of the things i 'm going to show you , over the last 10 years , in about 600 elderly households -- 300 in ireland , and 300 in portland -- trying to understand : how do we measure and monitor behavior in a medically meaningful way ?
and if you think about the phone , right , it 's something that we can use for some incredible ways to help people actually take the right medication at the right time .
we 're testing these kinds of simple sensor-network technologies in the home so that any phone that a senior is already comfortable with can help them deal with their medications .
and a lot of what they do is they pick up the phone , and it 's our system whispering to them which pill they need to take , and they fake like they 're having a conversation with a friend .
and they 're not embarrassed by a meds caddy that 's ugly , that sits on their kitchen table and says , " i 'm old . i 'm frail . "
it 's surreptitious technology that 's helping them do a simple task of taking the right pill at the right time .
now , we also do some pretty amazing things with these phones .
because that moment when you answer the phone is a cognitive test every time that you do it .
think about it , all right ? i 'm going to answer the phone three different times .
" hello ? hey . "
all right ? that 's the first time .
" hello ? uh , hey . "
" hello ? uh , who ?
oh , hey . "
all right ? very big differences between the way i answered the phone the three times .
and as we monitor phone usage by seniors over a long period of time , down to the tenths of a microsecond , that recognition moment of whether they can figure out that person on the other end is a friend and we start talking to them immediately , or they do a lot of what 's called trouble talk , where they 're like , " wait , who is this ? oh . " right ?
waiting for that recognition moment may be the best early indicator of the onset of dementia than anything that shows up clinically today .
we call these behavioral markers .
there 's lots of others . is the person going to the phone as quickly , when it rings , as they used to ?
is it a hearing problem or is it a physicality problem ?
has their voice gotten more quiet ? we 're doing a lot of work with people with alzheimer 's and particularly with parkinson 's ,
where that quiet voice that sometimes shows up with parkinson 's patients may be the best early indicator of parkinson 's five to 10 years before it shows up clinically .
but those subtle changes in your voice over a long period of time are hard for you or your spouse to notice until it becomes so extreme and your voice has become so quiet .
so , sensors are looking at that kind of voice .
when you pick up the phone , how much tremor are you having , and what is that like , and what is that trend like over a period of time ?
are you having more trouble dialing the phone than you used to ?
is it a dexterity problem ? is it the onset of arthritis ?
are you using the phone ? are you socializing less than you used to ?
and looking at that pattern . and what does that decline in social health mean , as a kind of a vital sign of the future ?
and then wow , what a radical idea , we -- except in the united states -- might be able to use this newfangled technology to actually interact with a nurse or a doctor on the other end of the line .
wow , what a great day that will be once we 're allowed to actually do those kinds of things .
so , these are what i would call behavioral markers .
and it 's the whole field that we 've been trying to work on for the last 10 years at intel .
how do you put simple disruptive technologies , and the first of five phrases that i 'm going to talk about in this talk ?
behavioral markers matter .
how do we change behavior ?
how do we measure changes in behavior in a meaningful way that 's going to help us with prevention of disease , early onset of disease , and tracking the progression of disease over a long period of time ?
now , why would intel let me spend a lot of time and money , over the last 10 years , trying to understand the needs of seniors and start thinking about these kinds of behavioral markers ?
this is some of the field work that we 've done .
we have now lived with 1,000 elderly households in 20 countries over the last 10 years .
we study people in rochester , new york .
we go live with them in the winter because what they do in the winter , and their access to healthcare , and how much they socialize , is very different than in the summer .
if they have a hip fracture we go with them and we study their entire discharge experience .
if they have a family member who is a key part of their care network , we fly and study them as well .
so , we study the holistic health experience of 1,000 seniors over the last 10 years in 20 different countries .
why is intel willing to fund that ?
it 's because of the second slogan that i want to talk about . ten years ago , when i started trying to convince intel to let me go start looking at disruptive technologies that could help with independent living , this is what i called it : " y2k + 10 . " you know , back in 2000 , we were all so obsessed with paying attention to the aging of our computers , and whether or not they were going to survive the tick of the clock from 1999 to 2000 , that we missed a moment that only demographers were paying attention to .
it was right around new years .
and that switchover , when we had the larger number of older people on the planet , for the first time than younger people .
for the first time in human history -- and barring aliens landing or some major other pandemic , that 's the expectation from demographers , going forward .
and 10 years ago it seemed like i had a lot of time to convince intel to work on this . right ?
y2k + 10 was coming , the baby boomers starting to retire .
well folks , it 's like we know these demographics here .
this is a map of the entire world . it 's like the lights are on , but nobody 's home on this demographic y2k + 10 problem . right ?
i mean we sort of get it here , but we don 't get it here ,
and we 're not doing anything about it .
the health reform bill is largely ignoring the realities of the age wave that 's coming , and the implications for what we need to do to change not only how we pay for care , but deliver care in some radically different ways .
and in fact , it 's upon us .
i mean you probably saw these headlines . this is catherine casey who is the first boomer to actually get social security .
that actually occurred this year . she took early retirement .
she was born one second after midnight in 1946 .
a retired school teacher ,
there she is with a social security administrator .
the first boomer actually , we didn 't even wait till 2011 , next year .
we 're already starting to see early retirement occur this year .
all right , so it 's here . this y2k + 10 problem is at our door .
this is 50 tsunamis scheduled on the calendar ,
but somehow we can 't sort of marshal our government and innovative forces to sort of get out in front of it and do something about it . we 'll wait until it 's more of a catastrophe , and react , as opposed to prepare for it .
so , one of the reasons it 's so challenging to prepare for this y2k problem is , i want to argue , we have what i would call mainframe poisoning .
andy grove , about six or seven years ago , he doesn 't even know or remember this , in a fortune magazine article he used the phrase " mainframe healthcare , " and i 've been extending and expanding this .
he saw it written down somewhere . he 's like , " eric that 's a really cool concept . "
i was like , " actually it was your idea . you said it in a fortune magazine article .
i just extended it . "
you know , this is the mainframe .
this mentality of traveling to and timesharing large , expensive healthcare systems actually began in 1787 .
this is the first general hospital in vienna .
and actually the second general hospital in vienna , in about 1850 , was where we started to build out an entire curriculum for teaching med students specialties .
and it 's a place in which we started developing architecture that literally divided the body , and divided care into departments and compartments .
and it was reflected in our architecture ,
it was reflected in the way that we taught students ,
and this mainframe mentality persists today .
now , i 'm not anti-hospital .
with my own healthcare problems , i 've taken drug therapies , i 've traveled to this hospital and others , many , many times .
but we worship the high hospital on a hill . right ?
and this is mainframe healthcare .
and just as 30 years ago we couldn 't conceive that we would have the power of a mainframe computer that took up a room this size in our purses and on our belts , that we 're carrying around in our cell phone today ,
and suddenly , computing , that used to be an expert driven system , it was a personal system that we all owned as part of our daily lives --
that shift from mainframe to personal computing is what we have to do for healthcare .
we have to shift from this mainframe mentality of healthcare to a personal model of healthcare .
we are obsessed with this way of thinking .
when intel does surveys all around the world and we say , " quick response : healthcare . " the first word that comes up is " doctor . "
the second that comes up is " hospital . " and the third is " illness " or " sickness . " right ?
we are wired , in our imagination , to think about healthcare and healthcare innovation as something that goes into that place .
our entire health reform discussion right now , health i.t. , when we talk with policy makers , equals " how are we going to get doctors using electronic medical records in the mainframe ? "
we 're not thinking about how do we shift from the mainframe to the home .
and the problem with this is the way we conceive healthcare . right ?
this is a very reactive , crisis-driven system .
we 're doing 15-minute exams with patients .
it 's population-based .
we collect a bunch of biological information in this artificial setting ,
and we fix them up , like humpty-dumpty all over again , and send them home , and hope -- we might hand them a brochure , maybe an interactive website -- that they do as asked and don 't come back into the mainframe .
and the problem is we can 't afford it today , folks .
we can 't afford mainframe healthcare today to include the uninsured .
and now we want to do a double-double of the age wave coming through ?
business as usual in healthcare is broken and we 've got to do something different .
we 've got to focus on the home .
we 've got to focus on a personal healthcare paradigm that moves care to the home . how do we be more proactive , prevention-driven ?
how do we collect vital signs and other kinds of information 24 by 7 ?
how do we get a personal baseline about what 's going to work for you ?
how do we collect not just biological data but behavioral data , psychological data , relational data , in and on and around the home ?
and how do we drive compliance to be a customized care plan that uses all this great technology that 's around us to change our behavior ?
that 's what we need to do for our personal health model .
i want to give you a couple of examples . this is mimi from one of our studies -- in her 90s , had to move out of her home because her family was worried about falls .
raise your hand if you had a serious fall in your household , or any of your loved ones , your parents or so forth . right ?
classic . hip fracture often leads to institutionalization of a senior .
this is what was happening to mimi ; the family was worried about it , moved her out of her own home into an assisted living facility .
she tripped over her oxygen tank .
many people in this generation won 't press the button , even if they have an alert call system , because they don 't want to bother anybody , even though they 've been paying 30 dollars a month .
boomers will press the button . trust me .
they 're going to be pressing that button non-stop . right ?
mimi broke her pelvis , lay all night , all morning , finally somebody came in and found her , sent her to the hospital .
they fixed her back up . she was never going to be able to move back into the assisted living . they put her into the nursing home unit .
first night in the nursing home unit where she had been in the same assisted living facility , moved her from one bed to another , kind of threw her , rebroke her pelvis ,
sent her back to the hospital that she had just come from , no one read the chart , put her on tylenol , which she is allergic to , broke out , got bedsores , basically , had heart problems , and died from the fall and the complications and the errors that were there .
now , the most frightening thing about this is this is my wife 's grandmother .
now , i 'm eric dishman . i speak english ,
i work for intel , i make a good salary ,
i 'm smart about falls and fall-related injuries --
it 's an area of research that i work on .
i have access to senators and ceos .
i can 't stop this from happening .
what happens if you don 't have money , you don 't speak english or don 't have the kind of access to deal with these kinds of problems that inevitably occur ?
how do we actually prevent the vast majority of falls from ever occurring in the first place ?
let me give you a quick example of work that we 're doing to try to do exactly that .
i 've been wearing a little technology that we call shimmer .
it 's a research platform .
it has accelerometry . you can plug in a three-lead ecg .
there is all kinds of sort of plug-and-play kind of legos that you can do to capture , in the wild , in the real world , things like tremor , gait , stride length and those kinds of things .
the problem is , our understanding of falls today , like mimi , is get a survey in the mail three months after you fell ,
from the state , saying , " what were you doing when you fell ? "
that 's sort of the state of the art .
but with something like shimmer , or we have something called the magic carpet , embedded sensors in carpet , or camera-based systems that we borrowed from sports medicine , we 're starting for the first time in those 600 elderly households to collect actual kinematic motion data to understand : what are the subtle changes that are occurring that can show us that mom has become risk at falls ?
and most often we can do two interventions , fix the meds mix .
i 'm a qualitative researcher , but when i look at these data streams coming in from these homes , i can look at the data and tell you the day that some doctor prescribed them something that nobody else knew that they were on , because we see the changes in their patterns in the household . right ?
these discoveries of behavioral markers , and behavioral changes are game changing , and like the discovery of the microscope because of our collecting data streams that we 've actually never done before .
this is an example in our tril clinic in ireland of -- actually what you 're seeing is she 's looking at data , in this picture , from the magic carpet .
so , we have a little carpet that you can look at your amount of postural sway , and look at the changes in your postural sway over many months .
here 's what some of this data might look like .
this is actually sensor firings .
these are two different subjects in our study .
it 's about a year 's worth of data .
the color represents different rooms they are in the house .
this person on the left is living in their own home .
this person on the right is actually living in an assisted living facility .
i know this because look at how punctuated meal time is when they are no longer in their particular rooms here . right ?
now , this doesn 't mean that much to you .
but when we look at these cycles of data over a longer period of time -- and we 're looking at everything from motion around different rooms in the house , to sort of micro-motions that shimmer picks up , about gait and stride length -- these streams of data are starting to tell us things about behavioral patterns that we 've never understood before .
you can go to orcatech.org -- it has nothing to do with whales , it 's the oregon center for aging and technology --
to see more about that .
the problem is , intel is still one of the largest funders in the world of independent living technology research .
i 'm not bragging about how much we fund ; it 's how little anyone else actually pays attention to aging and funds innovation on aging , chronic disease management and independent living in the home .
so , my mantra here , my fourth slogan is : 10,000 households or bust .
we need to drive a national , if not international , framingham-type heart study of independent living technologies , where we have 10,000 elderly connected households with broadband , full medical characterization , and a platform by which we can start to experiment and turn these from 20-household anecdotal studies that the universities fund , to large clinical trials that prove out the value of these technologies .
so , 10,000 households or bust .
these are just some of the households that we 've done in the intel studies .
my fifth and final phrase : i have tried for two years , and there were moments when we were quite close , to make this healthcare reform bill be about reform from something and to something ,
from a mainframe model to a personal health model , or to mean something more than just a debate about the public option and how we 're going to finance .
it doesn 't matter how we finance healthcare .
we 're going to figure something out for the next 10 years , and try it .
no matter who pays for it , we better start doing care in a fundamentally different way and treating the home and the patient and the family member and the caregivers as part of these coordinated care teams
and using disruptive technologies that are already here to do care in some pretty fundamental different ways .
the president needs to stand up and say , at the end of a healthcare reform debate , " our goal as a country is to move 50 percent of care out of institutions , clinics , hospitals and nursing homes , to the home , in 10 years . "
it 's achievable . we should do it economically ,
we should do it morally ,
and we should do it for quality of life .
but there is no goal within this health reform .
it 's just a mess today .
so , you know , that 's my last message to you .
how do we set a going-to-the-moon goal of dealing with the y2k + 10 problem that 's coming ?
it 's not that innovation and technology is going to be the magic pill that cures all , but it 's going to be part of the solution .
and if we don 't create a personal health movement , something that we 're all aiming towards in reform , then we 're going to move nowhere .
so , i hope you 'll turn this conference into that kind of movement forward .
thanks very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / tristram _ stuart _ the _ global _ food _ waste _ scandal.html
western countries throw out nearly half of their food , not because it 's inedible -- but because it doesn 't look appealing . tristram stuart delves into the shocking data of wasted food , calling for a more responsible use of global resources .
environment , food
1565
tristram stuart : the global food waste scandal
the job of uncovering the global food waste scandal started for me when i was 15 years old .
i bought some pigs . i was living in sussex .
and i started to feed them in the most traditional and environmentally friendly way .
i went to my school kitchen , and i said , " give me the scraps that my school friends have turned their noses up at . " i went to the local baker and took their stale bread .
i went to the local greengrocer , and i went to a farmer who was throwing away potatoes because they were the wrong shape or size for supermarkets .
this was great . my pigs turned that food waste into delicious pork . i sold that pork to my school friends ' parents , and i made a good pocket money addition to my teenage allowance .
but i noticed that most of the food that i was giving my pigs was in fact fit for human consumption , and that i was only scratching the surface , and that right the way up the food supply chain , in supermarkets , greengrocers , bakers , in our homes , in factories and farms , we were hemorrhaging out food .
supermarkets didn 't even want to talk to me about how much food they were wasting .
i 'd been round the back . i 'd seen bins full of food being locked and then trucked off to landfill sites , and i thought , surely there is something more sensible to do with food than waste it .
one morning , when i was feeding my pigs , i noticed a particularly tasty-looking sun-dried tomato loaf that used to crop up from time to time .
i grabbed hold of it , sat down , and ate my breakfast with my pigs .
that was the first act of what i later learned to call freeganism , really an exhibition of the injustice of food waste , and the provision of the solution to food waste , which is simply to sit down and eat food , rather than throwing it away .
that became , as it were , a way of confronting large businesses in the business of wasting food , and exposing , most importantly , to the public , that when we 're talking about food being thrown away , we 're not talking about rotten stuff , we 're not talking about stuff that 's beyond the pale .
we 're talking about good , fresh food that is being wasted on a colossal scale .
eventually , i set about writing my book , really to demonstrate the extent of this problem
on a global scale . what this shows is a nation-by-nation breakdown of the likely level of food waste in each country in the world .
unfortunately , empirical data , good , hard stats , don 't exist ,
and therefore to prove my point , i first of all had to find some proxy way of uncovering how much food was being wasted .
so i took the food supply of every single country and i compared it to what was actually likely to be being consumed in each country .
that 's based on diet intake surveys , it 's based on levels of obesity , it 's based on a range of factors that gives you an approximate guess as to how much food is actually going into people 's mouths .
that black line in the middle of that table is the likely level of consumption with an allowance for certain levels of inevitable waste .
there will always be waste . i 'm not that unrealistic that i think we can live in a waste-free world .
but that black line shows what a food supply should be in a country if they allow for a good , stable , secure , nutritional diet for every person in that country .
any dot above that line , and you 'll quickly notice that that includes most countries in the world , represents unnecessary surplus , and is likely to reflect levels of waste in each country .
as a country gets richer , it invests more and more in getting more and more surplus into its shops and restaurants , and as you can see , most european and north american countries fall between 150 and 200 percent of the nutritional requirements of their populations .
so a country like america has twice as much food on its shop shelves and in its restaurants than is actually required to feed the american people .
but the thing that really struck me , when i plotted all this data , and it was a lot of numbers , was that you can see how it levels off .
countries rapidly shoot towards that 150 mark , and then they level off , and they don 't really go on rising as you might expect .
so i decided to unpack that data a little bit further to see if that was true or false .
and that 's what i came up with .
if you include not just the food that ends up in shops and restaurants , but also the food that people feed to livestock , the maize , the soy , the wheat , that humans could eat but choose to fatten livestock instead to produce increasing amounts of meat and dairy products , what you find is that most rich countries have between three and four times the amount of food that their population needs to feed itself .
a country like america has four times the amount of food that it needs .
when people talk about the need to increase global food production to feed those nine billion people that are expected on the planet by 2050 , i always think of these graphs .
the fact is , we have an enormous buffer in rich countries between ourselves and hunger .
we 've never had such gargantuan surpluses before .
in many ways , this is a great success story of human civilization , of the agricultural surpluses that we set out to achieve 12,000 years ago .
it is a success story . it has been a success story .
but what we have to recognize now is that we are reaching the ecological limits that our planet can bear , and when we chop down forests , as we are every day , to grow more and more food , when we extract water from depleting water reserves , when we emit fossil fuel emissions in the quest to grow more and more food , and then we throw away so much of it , we have to think about what we can start saving .
and yesterday , i went to one of the local supermarkets that i often visit to inspect , if you like , what they 're throwing away .
i found quite a few packets of biscuits amongst all the fruit and vegetables and everything else that was in there .
and i thought , well this could serve as a symbol for today .
so i want you to imagine that these nine biscuits that i found in the bin represent the global food supply ,
okay ? we start out with nine .
that 's what 's in fields around the world every single year .
the first biscuit we 're going to lose before we even leave the farm .
that 's a problem primarily associated with developing work agriculture , whether it 's a lack of infrastructure , refrigeration , pasteurization , grain stores , even basic fruit crates , which means
that food goes to waste before it even leaves the fields .
the next three biscuits are the foods that we decide to feed to livestock , the maize , the wheat and the soya .
unfortunately , our beasts are inefficient animals , and they turn two-thirds of that into feces and heat ,
so we 've lost those two , and we 've only kept this one in meat and dairy products .
two more we 're going to throw away directly into bins .
this is what most of us think of when we think of food waste , what ends up in the garbage , what ends up in supermarket bins , what ends up in restaurant bins . we 've lost another two , and we 've left ourselves with just four biscuits to feed on .
that is not a superlatively efficient use of global resources , especially when you think of the billion hungry people that exist already in the world .
having gone through the data , i then needed to demonstrate where that food ends up .
where does it end up ? we 're used to seeing the stuff
on our plates , but what about all the stuff that goes missing in between ?
supermarkets are an easy place to start .
this is the result of my hobby , which is unofficial bin inspections .
strange you might think , but if we could rely on corporations to tell us what they were doing in the back of their stores , we wouldn 't need to go sneaking around the back , opening up bins and having a look at what 's inside .
but this is what you can see more or less on every street corner in britain , in europe , in north america .
it represents a colossal waste of food , but what i discovered whilst i was writing my book was that this very evident abundance of waste was actually the tip of the iceberg .
when you start going up the supply chain , you find where the real food waste is happening on a gargantuan scale .
can i have a show of hands if you have a loaf of sliced bread in your house ?
who lives in a household where that crust -- that slice at the first and last end of each loaf -- who lives in a household where it does get eaten ?
okay , most people , not everyone , but most people , and this is , i 'm glad to say , what i see across the world ,
and yet has anyone seen a supermarket or sandwich shop anywhere in the world that serves sandwiches with crusts on it ?
i certainly haven 't .
so i kept on thinking , where do those crusts go ?
this is the answer , unfortunately : 13,000 slices of fresh bread coming out of this one single factory every single day , day-fresh bread .
in the same year that i visited this factory , i went to pakistan , where people in 2008 were going hungry as a result of a squeeze on global food supplies .
we contribute to that squeeze by depositing food in bins here in britain and elsewhere in the world . we take food
off the market shelves that hungry people depend on .
go one step up , and you get to farmers , who throw away sometimes a third or even more of their harvest because of cosmetic standards .
this farmer , for example , has invested 16,000 pounds in growing spinach , not one leaf of which he harvested , because there was a little bit of grass growing in amongst it .
potatoes that are cosmetically imperfect , all going for pigs .
parsnips that are too small for supermarket specifications , tomatoes in tenerife , oranges in florida , bananas in ecuador , where i visited last year , all being discarded . this is one day 's waste from one banana plantation in ecuador .
all being discarded , perfectly edible , because they 're the wrong shape or size .
if we do that to fruit and vegetables , you bet we can do it to animals too .
liver , lungs , heads , tails , kidneys , testicles , all of these things which are traditional , delicious and nutritious parts of our gastronomy go to waste . offal consumption has halved in britain and america in the last 30 years .
as a result , this stuff gets fed to dogs at best , or is incinerated .
this man , in kashgar , xinjiang province , in western china , is serving up his national dish .
it 's called sheep 's organs .
it 's delicious , it 's nutritious , and as i learned when i went to kashgar , it symbolizes their taboo against food waste .
i was sitting in a roadside cafe .
a chef came to talk to me , i finished my bowl , and halfway through the conversation , he stopped talking and he started frowning into my bowl .
i thought , " my goodness , what taboo have i broken ?
how have i insulted my host ? " he pointed at three grains of rice at the bottom of my bowl , and he said , " clean . " i thought , " my god , you know , i go around the world telling people to stop wasting food .
this guy has thrashed me at my own game . " but it gave me faith . it gave me faith that we , the people , do have the power to stop this tragic waste of resources if we regard it as socially unacceptable to waste food on a colossal scale , if we make noise about it , tell corporations about it , tell governments we want to see an end to food waste , we do have the power to bring about that change .
fish , 40 to 60 percent of european fish are discarded at sea , they don 't even get landed .
in our homes , we 've lost touch with food .
this is an experiment i did on three lettuces .
who keeps lettuces in their fridge ?
most people . the one on the left
was kept in a fridge for 10 days .
the one in the middle , on my kitchen table . not much difference .
the one on the right i treated like cut flowers .
it 's a living organism , cut the slice off , stuck it in a vase of water , it was all right for another two weeks after this .
some food waste , as i said at the beginning , will inevitably arise , so the question is , what is the best thing to do with it ?
i answered that question when i was 15 .
in fact , humans answered that question 6,000 years ago : we domesticated pigs to turn food waste back into food .
and yet , in europe , that practice has become illegal since 2001 as a result of the foot-and-mouth outbreak .
it 's unscientific . it 's unnecessary .
if you cook food for pigs , just as if you cook food for humans , it is rendered safe .
it 's also a massive saving of resources .
at the moment , europe depends on importing millions of tons of soy from south america , where its production contributes to global warming , to deforestation , to biodiversity loss , to feed livestock here in europe .
at the same time we throw away millions of tons of food waste which we could and should be feeding them .
if we did that , and fed it to pigs , we would save that amount of carbon .
if we feed our food waste which is the current government favorite way of getting rid of food waste , to anaerobic digestion , which turns food waste into gas to produce electricity , you save a paltry 448 kilograms of carbon dioxide per ton of food waste . it 's much better to feed it to pigs .
we knew that during the war .
a silver lining : it has kicked off globally , the quest to tackle food waste .
feeding the 5,000 is an event i first organized in 2009 .
we fed 5,000 people all on food that otherwise would have been wasted .
since then , it 's happened again in london , it 's happening internationally , and across the country .
it 's a way of organizations coming together to celebrate food , to say the best thing to do with food is to eat and enjoy it , and to stop wasting it .
for the sake of the planet we live on , for the sake of our children , for the sake of all the other organisms that share our planet with us , we are a terrestrial animal , and we depend on our land
for food . at the moment , we are trashing our land to grow food that no one eats .
stop wasting food . thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jack _ horner _ building _ a _ dinosaur _ from _ a _ chicken.html
renowned paleontologist jack horner has spent his career trying to reconstruct a dinosaur . he 's found fossils with extraordinarily well-preserved blood vessels and soft tissues , but never intact dna . so , in a new approach , he 's taking living descendants of the dinosaur and genetically engineering them to reactivate ancestral traits - including teeth , tails , and even hands - to make a " chickenosaurus . "
genetics , paleontology , science
1163
jack horner : building a dinosaur from a chicken
when i was growing up in montana , i had two dreams .
i wanted to be a paleontologist , a dinosaur paleontologist , and i wanted to have a pet dinosaur .
and so that 's what i 've been striving for all of my life .
i was very fortunate early in my career .
i was fortunate in finding things .
i wasn 't very good at reading things .
in fact , i don 't read much of anything .
i am extremely dyslexic , and so reading is the hardest thing i do .
but instead , i go out and i find things .
then i just pick things up .
i basically practice for finding money on the street .
and i wander about the hills ,
and i have found a few things .
and i have been fortunate enough to find things like the first eggs in the western hemisphere and the first baby dinosaurs in nests , the first dinosaur embryos and massive accumulations of bones .
and it happened to be at a time when people were just starting to begin to realize that dinosaurs weren 't the big , stupid , green reptiles that people had thought for so many years .
people were starting to get an idea that dinosaurs were special .
and so , at that time , i was able to make some interesting hypotheses along with my colleagues .
we were able to actually say that dinosaurs -- based on the evidence we had -- that dinosaurs built nests and lived in colonies and cared for their young , brought food to their babies and traveled in gigantic herds .
so it was pretty interesting stuff .
i have gone on to find more things and discover that dinosaurs really were very social .
we have found a lot of evidence that dinosaurs changed from when they were juveniles to when they were adults .
the appearance of them would have been different -- which it is in all social animals .
in social groups of animals , the juveniles always look different than the adults .
the adults can recognize the juveniles ; the juveniles can recognize the adults .
and so we 're making a better picture of what a dinosaur looks like .
and they didn 't just all chase jeeps around .
but it is that social thing that i guess attracted michael crichton .
and in his book , he talked about the social animals .
and then steven spielberg , of course , depicts these dinosaurs as being very social creatures .
the theme of this story is building a dinosaur , and so we come to that part of " jurassic park . "
michael crichton really was one of the first people to talk about bringing dinosaurs back to life .
you all know the story , right .
i mean , i assume everyone here has seen " jurassic park . "
if you want to make a dinosaur , you go out , you find yourself a piece of petrified tree sap -- otherwise known as amber -- that has some blood-sucking insects in it , good ones , and you get your insect and you drill into it and you suck out some dna , because obviously all insects that sucked blood in those days sucked dinosaur dna out .
and you take your dna back to the laboratory and you clone it .
and i guess you inject it into maybe an ostrich egg , or something like that ,
and then you wait , and , lo and behold , out pops a little baby dinosaur .
and everybody 's happy about that .
and they 're happy over and over again .
they keep doing it ; they just keep making these things .
and then , then , then , and then ...
then the dinosaurs , being social , act out their socialness ,
and they get together , and they conspire . and , of course , that 's what makes steven spielberg 's movie -- conspiring dinosaurs chasing people around . so i assume everybody knows that if you actually had a piece of amber and it had an insect in it , and you drilled into it , and you got something out of that insect , and you cloned it , and you did it over and over and over again , you 'd have a room full of mosquitoes .
and probably a whole bunch of trees as well .
now if you want dinosaur dna , i say go to the dinosaur .
so that 's what we 've done .
back in 1993 when the movie came out , we actually had a grant from the national science foundation to attempt to extract dna from a dinosaur ,
and we chose the dinosaur on the left , a tyrannosaurus rex , which was a very nice specimen . and one of my former doctoral students , dr. mary schweitzer , actually had the background to do this sort of thing .
and so she looked into the bone of this t. rex , one of the thigh bones , and she actually found some very interesting structures in there .
they found these red circular-looking objects , and they looked , for all the world , like red blood cells .
and they 're in what appear to be the blood channels that go through the bone .
and so she thought , well , what the heck .
so she sampled some material out of it .
now it wasn 't dna ; she didn 't find dna .
but she did find heme , which is the biological foundation of hemoglobin .
and that was really cool .
that was interesting .
that was -- here we have 65-million-year-old heme .
well we tried and tried and we couldn 't really get anything else out of it .
so a few years went by , and then we started the hell creek project .
and the hell creek project was this massive undertaking to get as many dinosaurs as we could possibly find , and hopefully find some dinosaurs that had more material in them .
and out in eastern montana there 's a lot of space , a lot of badlands , and not very many people ,
and so you can go out there and find a lot of stuff .
and we did find a lot of stuff .
we found a lot of tyrannosaurs , but we found one special tyrannosaur , and we called it b-rex .
and b-rex was found under a thousand cubic yards of rock .
it wasn 't a very complete t. rex , and it wasn 't a very big t. rex , but it was a very special b-rex .
and i and my colleagues cut into it , and we were able to determine , by looking at lines of arrested growth , some lines in it , that b-rex had died at the age of 16 .
we don 't really know how long dinosaurs lived , because we haven 't found the oldest one yet .
but this one died at the age of 16 .
we gave samples to mary schweitzer , and she was actually able to determine that b-rex was a female based on medullary tissue found on the inside of the bone .
medullary tissue is the calcium build-up , the calcium storage basically , when an animal is pregnant , when a bird is pregnant .
so here was the character that linked birds and dinosaurs .
but mary went further .
she took the bone , and she dumped it into acid .
now we all know that bones are fossilized , and so if you dump it into acid , there shouldn 't be anything left .
but there was something left .
there were blood vessels left .
there were flexible , clear blood vessels .
and so here was the first soft tissue from a dinosaur .
it was extraordinary .
but she also found osteocytes , which are the cells that laid down the bones .
and try and try , we could not find dna , but she did find evidence of proteins .
but we thought maybe -- well , we thought maybe that the material was breaking down after it was coming out of the ground .
we thought maybe it was deteriorating very fast .
and so we built a laboratory in the back of an 18-wheeler trailer , and actually took the laboratory to the field where we could get better samples .
and we did . we got better material .
the cells looked better .
the vessels looked better .
found the protein collagen .
i mean , it was wonderful stuff .
but it 's not dinosaur dna .
so we have discovered that dinosaur dna , and all dna , just breaks down too fast .
we 're just not going to be able to do what they did in " jurassic park . "
we 're not going to be able to make a dinosaur based on a dinosaur .
but birds are dinosaurs .
birds are living dinosaurs .
we actually classify them as dinosaurs .
we now call them non-avian dinosaurs and avian dinosaurs .
so the non-avian dinosaurs are the big clunky ones that went extinct .
avian dinosaurs are our modern birds .
so we don 't have to make a dinosaur because we already have them .
i know , you 're as bad as the sixth-graders .
the sixth-graders look at it and they say , " no . "
" you can call it a dinosaur , but look at the velociraptor : the velociraptor is cool . "
" the chicken is not . "
so this is our problem , as you can imagine .
the chicken is a dinosaur .
i mean it really is .
you can 't argue with it because we 're the classifiers and we 've classified it that way .
but the sixth-graders demand it .
" fix the chicken . "
so that 's what i 'm here to tell you about : how we are going to fix a chicken .
so we have a number of ways that we actually can fix the chicken .
because evolution works , we actually have some evolutionary tools .
we 'll call them biological modification tools .
we have selection .
and we know selection works .
we started out with a wolf-like creature and we ended up with a maltese .
i mean , that 's -- that 's definitely genetic modification .
or any of the other funny-looking little dogs .
we also have transgenesis .
transgenesis is really cool too .
that 's where you take a gene out of one animal and stick it in another one .
that 's how people make glofish .
you take a glow gene out of a coral or a jellyfish and you stick it in a zebrafish , and , puff , they glow .
and that 's pretty cool .
and they obviously make a lot of money off of them .
and now they 're making glow-rabbits and glow-all-sorts-of-things .
i guess we could make a glow chicken .
but i don 't think that 'll satisfy the sixth-graders either .
but there 's another thing .
there 's what we call atavism activation .
and atavism activation is basically -- an atavism is an ancestral characteristic .
you heard that occasionally children are born with tails , and it 's because it 's an ancestral characteristic .
and so there are a number of atavisms that can happen .
snakes are occasionally born with legs .
and here 's an example .
this is a chicken with teeth .
a fellow by the name of matthew harris at the university of wisconsin in madison actually figured out a way to stimulate the gene for teeth , and so was able to actually turn the tooth gene on and produce teeth in chickens .
now that 's a good characteristic .
we can save that one .
we know we can use that .
we can make a chicken with teeth .
that 's getting closer .
that 's better than a glowing chicken .
a friend of mine , a colleague of mine , dr. hans larsson at mcgill university , is actually looking at atavisms .
and he 's looking at them by looking at the embryo genesis of birds and actually looking at how they develop ,
and he 's interested in how birds actually lost their tail .
he 's also interested in the transformation of the arm , the hand , to the wing .
he 's looking for those genes as well .
and i said , " well , if you can find those , i can just reverse them and make what i need to make for the sixth-graders . "
and so he agreed .
and so that 's what we 're looking into .
if you look at dinosaur hands , a velociraptor has that cool-looking hand with the claws on it .
archaeopteryx , which is a bird , a primitive bird , still has that very primitive hand .
but as you can see , the pigeon , or a chicken or anything else , another bird , has kind of a weird-looking hand , because the hand is a wing .
but the cool thing is that , if you look in the embryo , as the embryo is developing the hand actually looks pretty much like the archaeopteryx hand .
it has the three fingers , the three digits .
but a gene turns on that actually fuses those together .
and so what we 're looking for is that gene .
we want to stop that gene from turning on , fusing those hands together , so we can get a chicken that hatches out with a three-fingered hand , like the archaeopteryx .
and the same goes for the tails .
birds have basically rudimentary tails .
and so we know that in embryo , as the animal is developing , it actually has a relatively long tail .
but a gene turns on and resorbs the tail , gets rid of it .
so that 's the other gene we 're looking for .
we want to stop that tail from resorbing .
so what we 're trying to do really is take our chicken , modify it and make the chickenosaurus .
it 's a cooler-looking chicken .
but it 's just the very basics .
so that really is what we 're doing .
and people always say , " why do that ?
why make this thing ?
what good is it ? "
well , that 's a good question .
actually , i think it 's a great way to teach kids about evolutionary biology and developmental biology and all sorts of things .
and quite frankly , i think if colonel sanders was to be careful how he worded it , he could actually advertise an extra piece .
anyway -- when our dino-chicken hatches , it will be , obviously , the poster child , or what you might call a poster chick , for technology , entertainment and design .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / danny _ hillis _ the _ internet _ could _ crash _ we _ need _ a _ plan _ b.html
in the 1970s and 1980s , a generous spirit suffused the internet , whose users were few and far between . but today , the net is ubiquitous , connecting billions of people , machines and essential pieces of infrastructure -- leaving us vulnerable to cyber-attack or meltdown . internet pioneer danny hillis argues that the internet wasn 't designed for this kind of scale , and sounds a clarion call for us to develop a plan b : a parallel system to fall back on if -- or when -- the internet crashes .
internet , computers , technology
1693
danny hillis : the internet could crash . we need a plan b
so , this book that i have in my hand is a directory of everybody who had an email address in 1982 .
actually , it 's deceptively large .
there 's actually only about 20 people on each page , because we have the name , address and telephone number of every single person .
and , in fact , everybody 's listed twice , because it 's sorted once by name and once by email address .
obviously a very small community .
there were only two other dannys on the internet then .
i knew them both .
we didn 't all know each other , but we all kind of trusted each other , and that basic feeling of trust permeated the whole network , and there was a real sense that we could depend on each other to do things .
so just to give you an idea of the level of trust in this community , let me tell you what it was like to register a domain name in the early days .
now , it just so happened that i got to register the third domain name on the internet .
so i could have anything i wanted other than bbn.com and symbolics.com .
so i picked think.com , but then i thought , you know , there 's a lot of really interesting names out there .
maybe i should register a few extras just in case .
and then i thought , " nah , that wouldn 't be very nice . " that attitude of only taking what you need was really what everybody had on the network in those days , and in fact , it wasn 't just the people on the network , but it was actually kind of built into the protocols of the internet itself .
so the basic idea of i.p. , or internet protocol , and the way that the -- the routing algorithm that used it , were fundamentally " from each according to their ability , to each according to their need . " and so , if you had some extra bandwidth , you 'd deliver a message for someone .
if they had some extra bandwidth , they would deliver a message for you .
you 'd kind of depend on people to do that , and that was the building block .
it was actually interesting that such a communist principle was the basis of a system developed during the cold war by the defense department , but it obviously worked really well , and we all saw what happened with the internet .
it was incredibly successful .
in fact , it was so successful that there 's no way that these days you could make a book like this .
my rough calculation is it would be about 25 miles thick .
but , of course , you couldn 't do it , because we don 't know the names of all the people with internet or email addresses , and even if we did know their names , i 'm pretty sure that they would not want their name , address and telephone number published to everyone .
so the fact is that there 's a lot of bad guys on the internet these days , and so we dealt with that by making walled communities , secure subnetworks , vpns , little things that aren 't really the internet but are made out of the same building blocks , but we 're still basically building it out of those same building blocks with those same assumptions of trust .
and that means that it 's vulnerable to certain kinds of mistakes that can happen , or certain kinds of deliberate attacks , but even the mistakes can be bad .
so , for instance , in all of asia recently , it was impossible to get youtube for a little while because pakistan made some mistakes in how it was censoring youtube in its internal network .
they didn 't intend to screw up asia , but they did because of the way that the protocols work .
another example that may have affected many of you in this audience is , you may remember a couple of years ago , all the planes west of the mississippi were grounded because a single routing card in salt lake city had a bug in it .
now , you don 't really think that our airplane system depends on the internet , and in some sense it doesn 't .
i 'll come back to that later .
but the fact is that people couldn 't take off because something was going wrong on the internet , and the router card was down .
and so , there are many of those things that start to happen .
now , there was an interesting thing that happened last april .
all of a sudden , a very large percentage of the traffic on the whole internet , including a lot of the traffic between u.s. military installations , started getting re-routed through china .
so for a few hours , it all passed through china .
now , china telecom says it was just an honest mistake , and it is actually possible that it was , the way things work , but certainly somebody could make a dishonest mistake of that sort if they wanted to , and it shows you how vulnerable the system is even to mistakes .
imagine how vulnerable the system is to deliberate attacks .
so if somebody really wanted to attack the united states or western civilization these days , they 're not going to do it with tanks .
that will not succeed .
what they 'll probably do is something very much like the attack that happened on the iranian nuclear facility .
nobody has claimed credit for that .
there was basically a factory of industrial machines .
it didn 't think of itself as being on the internet .
it thought of itself as being disconnected from the internet , but it was possible for somebody to smuggle a usb drive in there , or something like that , and software got in there that causes the centrifuges , in that case , to actually destroy themselves .
now that same kind of software could destroy an oil refinery or a pharmaceutical factory or a semiconductor plant .
and so there 's a lot of -- i 'm sure you 've read a lot in papers , about worries about cyber attacks and defenses against those .
but the fact is , people are mostly focused on defending the computers on the internet , and there 's been surprisingly little attention to defending the internet itself as a communications medium .
and i think we probably do need to pay some more attention to that , because it 's actually kind of fragile .
so actually , in the early days , back when it was the arpanet , there were actually times -- there was a particular time it failed completely because one single message processor actually got a bug in it .
and the way the internet works is the routers are basically exchanging information about how they can get messages to places , and this one processor , because of a broken card , decided it could actually get a message to some place in negative time .
so , in other words , it claimed it could deliver a message before you sent it .
so of course , the fastest way to get a message anywhere was to send it to this guy , who would send it back in time and get it there super early , so every message in the internet started getting switched through this one node , and of course that clogged everything up .
everything started breaking .
the interesting thing was , though , that the sysadmins were able to fix it , but they had to basically turn every single thing on the internet off .
now , of course you couldn 't do that today .
i mean , everything off , it 's like the service call you get from the cable company , except for the whole world .
now , in fact , they couldn 't do it for a lot of reasons today .
one of the reasons is a lot of their telephones use ip protocol and use things like skype and so on that go through the internet right now , and so in fact we 're becoming dependent on it for more and more different things , like when you take off from lax , you 're really not thinking you 're using the internet .
when you pump gas , you really don 't think you 're using the internet .
what 's happening increasingly , though , is these systems are beginning to use the internet .
most of them aren 't based on the internet yet , but they 're starting to use the internet for service functions , for administrative functions , and so if you take something like the cell phone system , which is still relatively independent of the internet for the most part , internet pieces are beginning to sneak into it in terms of some of the control and administrative functions ,
and it 's so tempting to use these same building blocks because they work so well , they 're cheap , they 're repeated , and so on .
so all of our systems , more and more , are starting to use the same technology and starting to depend on this technology .
and so even a modern rocket ship these days actually uses internet protocol to talk from one end of the rocket ship to the other .
that 's crazy . it was never designed to do things like that .
so we 've built this system where we understand all the parts of it , but we 're using it in a very , very different way than we expected to use it , and it 's gotten a very , very different scale than it was designed for .
and in fact , nobody really exactly understands all the things it 's being used for right now .
it 's turning into one of these big emergent systems like the financial system , where we 've designed all the parts but nobody really exactly understands how it operates and all the little details of it and what kinds of emergent behaviors it can have .
and so if you hear an expert talking about the internet and saying it can do this , or it does do this , or it will do that , you should treat it with the same skepticism that you might treat the comments of an economist about the economy or a weatherman about the weather , or something like that .
they have an informed opinion , but it 's changing so quickly that even the experts don 't know exactly what 's going on .
so if you see one of these maps of the internet , it 's just somebody 's guess .
nobody really knows what the internet is right now because it 's different than it was an hour ago .
it 's constantly changing . it 's constantly reconfiguring .
and the problem with it is , i think we are setting ourselves up for a kind of disaster like the disaster we had in the financial system , where we take a system that 's basically built on trust , was basically built for a smaller-scale system , and we 've kind of expanded it way beyond the limits of how it was meant to operate .
and so right now , i think it 's literally true that we don 't know what the consequences of an effective denial-of-service attack on the internet would be , and whatever it would be is going to be worse next year , and worse next year , and so on .
but so what we need is a plan b .
there is no plan b right now .
there 's no clear backup system that we 've very carefully kept to be independent of the internet , made out of completely different sets of building blocks .
so what we need is something that doesn 't necessarily have to have the performance of the internet , but the police department has to be able to call up the fire department even without the internet , or the hospitals have to order fuel oil .
this doesn 't need to be a multi-billion-dollar government project .
it 's actually relatively simple to do , technically , because it can use existing fibers that are in the ground , existing wireless infrastructure .
it 's basically a matter of deciding to do it .
but people won 't decide to do it until they recognize the need for it , and that 's the problem that we have right now .
so there 's been plenty of people , plenty of us have been quietly arguing that we should have this independent system for years , but it 's very hard to get people focused on plan b when plan a seems to be working so well .
so i think that , if people understand how much we 're starting to depend on the internet , and how vulnerable it is , we could get focused on just wanting this other system to exist , and i think if enough people say , " yeah , i would like to use it , i 'd like to have such a system , " then it will get built .
it 's not that hard a problem .
it could definitely be done by people in this room .
and so i think that this is actually , of all the problems you 're going to hear about at the conference , this is probably one of the very easiest to fix .
so i 'm happy to get a chance to tell you about it .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / charles _ fleischer _ insists _ all _ things _ are _ moleeds.html
in a presentation that can only be described as epic , comedian charles fleischer delivers a hysterical send-up of a time-honored ted theme : the map . geometry , numbers , charts and stamp art also factor in , as he weaves together a unique theory of everything called " moleeds . "
astronomy , comedy , humor , map , science
738
charles fleischer insists : all things are moleeds
i am going to be talking about secrets .
obviously the best way to divulge a secret is to tell someone to not say anything about it .
secrets . i 'm using powerpoint this year just because , you know , i 'm into the ted thing .
and when you use these things you don 't have to go like that .
you just press it .
oh , man . um , yes .
yes . i 'm sure ! just change it !
is bill gates here ?
change it ! come on ! what ?
ah ! okay .
that 's not my slides , but it 's okay .
as you can see , these are all maps .
and maps are important devices for transferring information , especially if you have human cognitive ability .
we can see that all formulas are really maps .
now , as humans , we make maps of places that we seldom even go ,
which seems a little wasteful of time .
this , of course , is a map of the moon .
there 're some very delightful names .
tranquilacalitis , [ unclear ] . my favorite is frigoris .
what are these people thinking ? frigoris ?
what the frigoris you doing ? names are important .
frigoris ? this is the moon . people could live there one day .
i 'll meet you at frigoris . no . i don 't think so .
there we see mars , again with various names .
and this is all done , by the way , by the international astronomical union .
this is an actual group of people that sit around naming planetary objects .
this is from their actual book .
these are some of the names that they have chosen , ladies and gentlemen .
i 'll go through a little of them . bolotnitsa .
that , of course , is the slavic swamp mermaid .
now i think the whole concept of a mermaid doesn 't really blend into the swamp feel .
" oh look ! mermaid come out of swamp . oh boy !
it 's time for bolotnitsa ! " djabran fluctus .
if that don 't flow off the tongue , what does ?
i mean kids are studying this stuff and they 've got the word " fluctus " up there . that 's wrong .
one dyslexic kid and he could be ruining his life .
" it fluctus up , mama . "
hikuleo fluctus .
that 's a little more flowing . hikuleo sounds like a kind of a leonardo dicaprio 17 syllable thing .
and that 's the tonga underworld .
and one of my favorites is the itoki fluctus , who is the nicaraguan goddess of insects , stars , and planets .
now , if you 're a goddess of stars and planets wouldn 't you relegate insects to somebody else ?
" no , no , really , i 'm so busy with the stars .
would you mind taking the insects ? thank you darling .
oh take the spiders too . i know they 're not insects , but i don 't care .
monkeys , chimps , just get rid of the hairy creatures . " now , we 're going to be going to mars one day . and when we do , it 's going to be unfair for the people that are living there to have to live with these ridiculous names .
so , you 'll be on mars , and you 're at hellespointica depressio which has got to be a really " up " place .
yeah , i 'm at the depressio , and i want to get over to amazonis so i plug it into the mars map , and click the button and there 's my directions .
i go to chrysokeras .
left to the thymiamata .
then to niliacus lacus , which is not a bad name .
niliacus lacus , try to get the practice , slick-a-tick-a-bacus .
that 's a cool name . i will say that .
so , i hold back a little of my venom for these astronomical misnomers .
and then of course arnon to thoth .
and of course there will be advertisements .
this is from their rule book , the international astronomical union .
and you know they 're international because they put it " en francais " as well .
l 'union astronomique internationale , for those of you who don 't speak french .
i thought i 'd translate for you .
from the rulebook : nomenclature is a tool .
the first consideration , make it clear , simple and unambiguous .
and i think that djabran fluctus , that fits that mode .
that 's simple , the goddess of goats , very simple .
djabran fluctus .
" now , frank is this clear to you , djabran fluctus ? "
" yeah , that 's the goat goddess right ? the abacazanian ?
it 's clear to me . "
" listen , i 'm going back to the swamp mermaid . can you call me in a little while ? "
also , from the actual document i highlighted a part i thought may be of interest .
anyone can suggest changing a name .
so , i look to you , fellow member of the earth community .
we 've got to change this stuff up fast .
so , these are actual names of people that work there .
i did some more investigation .
these are more people working for this group .
and , as you can see , they don 't use their first names .
these are people naming planets , and they won 't use their first names .
something is askew here .
is it because his name is really jupiter blunck ?
is that ganymede andromeda burba ?
is that mars ya marov ?
i don 't know . but it 's investigative material , no doubt .
there are some mapping people who do use their names .
witness please , eugene shoemaker , who , diligently , from a young boy decided he wanted to make maps of celestial bodies .
must have been a very interesting day in the shoemaker house .
" mom , i want to make maps . "
" that 's wonderful eugene . you could make maps of toronto . "
" no , i want to make maps of planets . "
" yeah , go to your room . "
martians , venusians , jovians .
we have names for places where people don 't exist .
that seems a little silly to me .
there are no jovians .
getting back to my premise , i used stamps , by the way , because you don 't have to pay anybody for the rights .
there is obviously einstein , niels bohr , de fermat 's last theorem , and i 'm not sure whether that 's james coburn or richard harris .
it 's definitely one of the two . i 'm not really clear which one .
but obviously the point is that numbers are maps .
and within numbers , is there an underlying secret to the universe ?
that is the premise of this particular presentation .
by the way , that 's a natural picture of saturn , no adjustments . i mean that 's just beautiful .
so beautiful that i will even give up a laugh to explain my love of this particular planet , and the day saturday , named after it , wonderfully .
so , formulas relate number to form .
that 's euler , his formula was one of the inspirations that lead to the beginning of string theory which is kind of cool , not that funny , but it is cool .
he was also famous for having no body .
which a lot of you are like , " how did he figure that out ? "
he 's got no body , no man , just a head floating high .
here comes euler .
and that 's an icosahedron , which is one of the five sacred solids , very important shapes .
you see the icosahedron again .
the dodecahedron , it 's dual .
there is a dodecahedron which i had to do in my room last night .
the five sacred solids , as you can see there .
which is not to be confused with the five sacred salads .
blue cheese , ranch , oil and vinegar , thousand islands and house .
there was no way to predict how far it would spread through water supplies and how bad the situation would get .
and not knowing where help was needed always ensured that help was in short supply in the areas that needed it most .
we 've gotten good at predicting and preparing for storms before they take innocent lives and cause irreversible damage , but we still can 't do that with water , and here 's why .
right now , if you want to test water in the field , you need a trained technician , expensive equipment like this , and you have to wait about a day for chemical reactions to take place and provide results .
it 's too slow to get a picture of conditions on the ground before they change , too expensive to implement in all the places that require testing .
and it ignores the fact that , in the meanwhile , people still need to drink water .
most of the information that we collected on the cholera outbreak didn 't come from testing water ; it came from forms like this , which documented all the people we failed to help .
countless lives have been saved by canaries in coalmines -- a simple and invaluable way for miners to know whether they 're safe .
i 've been inspired by that simplicity as i 've been working on this problem with some of the most hardworking and brilliant people i 've ever known .
we think there 's a simpler solution to this problem -- one that can be used by people who face conditions like this everyday .
it 's in its early stages , but this is what it looks like right now .
we call it the water canary .
it 's a fast , cheap device that answers an important question : is this water contaminated ?
it doesn 't require any special training .
and instead of waiting for chemical reactions to take place , it uses light .
that means there 's no waiting for chemical reactions to take place , no need to use reagents that can run out and no need to be an expert to get actionable information .
to test water , you simply insert a sample and , within seconds , it either displays a red light , indicating contaminated water , or a green light , indicating the sample is safe .
this will make it possible for anyone to collect life-saving information and to monitor water quality conditions as they unfold .
we 're also , on top of that , integrating wireless networking into an affordable device with gps and gsm .
what that means is that each reading can be automatically transmitted to servers to be mapped in real time .
with enough users , maps like this will make it possible to take preventive action , containing hazards before they turn into emergencies that take years to recover from .
and then , instead of taking days to disseminate this information to the people who need it most , it can happen automatically .
we 've seen how distributed networks , big data and information can transform society .
i think it 's time for us to apply them to water .
our goal over the next year is to get water canary ready for the field and to open-source the hardware so that anyone can contribute to the development and the evaluation , so we can tackle this problem together .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / dan _ dennett _ s _ response _ to _ rick _ warren.html
philosopher dan dennett calls for religion -- all religion -- to be taught in schools , so we can understand its nature as a natural phenomenon . then he takes on the purpose-driven life , disputing its claim that , to be moral , one must deny evolution .
god , atheism , brain , cognitive science , consciousness , evolution , philosophy , religion
94
dan dennett 's response to rick warren
it 's wonderful to be back .
i love this wonderful gathering .
and you must be wondering , " what on earth ?
have they put up the wrong slide ? "
no , no .
look at this magnificent beast and ask the question -- who designed it ?
this is ted .
this is technology , entertainment , design and there 's a dairy cow .
it 's a quite wonderfully designed animal .
and i was thinking , how do i introduce this ?
and i thought , well , maybe that old doggerel by joyce kilmer , you know : " poems are made by fools like me , but only god can make a tree . "
and you might say , " well , god designed the cow . "
but , of course , god got a lot of help .
this is the ancestor of cattle .
this is the oryx .
and it was designed by natural selection , the process of natural selection , over many millions of years .
and then it became domesticated thousands of years ago .
and human beings became its stewards ,
and , without even knowing what they were doing , they gradually redesigned it and redesigned it and redesigned it .
and then , more recently , they really began to do sort of reverse engineering on this beast and figure out just what the parts were , how they worked and how they might be optimized -- how they might be made better .
now why am i talking about cows ?
because i want to say that much the same thing is true of religions .
religions are natural phenomena .
they 're just as natural as cows .
they have evolved over millennia .
they have a biological base , just like the oryx .
they have become domesticated , and human beings have been redesigning their religions for thousands of years .
this is ted , and i want to talk about design .
because what i 've been doing for the last four years , really since the first time you saw me -- some of you saw me at ted when i was talking about religion , and in the last four years i 've been working just about non-stop on this topic .
and you might say it 's about the reverse engineering of religions . now that very idea , i think , strikes terror in many people , or anger , or anxiety of one sort or another .
and that is the spell that i want to break .
i want to say , no , religions are an important natural phenomenon .
we should study them with the same intensity that we study all the other important natural phenomena , like global warming , as we heard so eloquently last night from al gore .
today 's religions are brilliantly designed -- brilliantly designed .
they 're immensely powerful social institutions and many of their features can be traced back to earlier features that we can really make sense of by reverse engineering .
and , as with the cow , there 's a mixture of evolutionary design , designed by natural selection itself , and intelligent design -- more or less intelligent design -- and redesigned by human beings who are trying to redesign their religions .
you don 't do book talks at ted , but i 'm going to have just one slide about my book , because there is one message in it which i think this group really needs to hear .
and i would be very interested to get your responses to this .
it 's the one policy proposal that i make in the book , at this time when i claim not to know enough about religion to know what other policy proposals to make .
and it 's one that echoes remarks that you 've heard already today .
here 's my proposal .
i 'm going to just take a couple of minutes to explain it -- education in world religions , on world religions , for all of our children in primary school , in high school , in public schools , in private schools and in home schooling .
so what i 'm proposing is , just as we require reading , writing , arithmetic , american history , so we should have a curriculum on facts about all the religions of the world -- about their history , about their creeds , about their texts , their music , their symbolisms , their prohibitions , their requirements . and this should be presented factually , straightforwardly , with no particular spin , to all of the children in the country .
and as long as you teach them that , you can teach them anything else you like .
that , i think , is maximal tolerance for religious freedom .
as long as you inform your children about other religions , then you may -- and as early as you like and whatever you like -- teach them whatever creed you want them to learn .
but also let them know about other religions .
now why do i say that ?
because democracy depends on an informed citizenship . informed consent is the very bedrock of our understanding of democracy .
misinformed consent is not worth it .
it 's like a coin flip ; it doesn 't count really .
democracy depends on informed consent .
this is the way we treat people as responsible adults .
now , children below the age of consent are a special case .
i 'm going to use a word that pastor rick just used -- parents are stewards of their children .
they don 't own them .
you can 't own your children .
you have a responsibility to the world , to the state , to them , to take care of them right .
you may teach them whatever creed you think is most important , but i say you have a responsibility to let them be informed about all the other creeds in the world , too .
the reason i 've taken this time is i 've been fascinated to hear some of the reactions to this .
one reviewer for a roman catholic newspaper called it " totalitarian . "
it strikes me as practically libertarian .
is it totalitarian to require reading , writing and arithmetic ?
i don 't think so .
all i 'm saying is -- facts . facts only .
no values , just facts about all the world 's religions .
another reviewer called it " hilarious . "
well , i 'm really bothered by the fact that anybody would think that was hilarious .
it seems to me to be such a plausible , natural extension of the democratic principles we already have , that i 'm shocked to think anybody would find that just ridiculous .
i know many religions are so anxious about preserving the purity of their faith among their children that they are intent on keeping their children ignorant of other faiths .
i don 't think that 's defensible , but i 'd really be pleased to get your answers on that -- any reactions to that -- later .
but now i 'm going to move on .
back to the cow .
this picture , which i pulled off the web -- the fellow on the left is really an important part of this picture .
that 's the steward .
cows couldn 't live without human stewards -- they 're domesticated . they 're a sort of ectosymbiont .
they depend on us for their survival .
and pastor rick was just talking about sheep .
i 'm going to talk about sheep , too .
there 's a lot of serendipitous convergence here .
how clever it was of sheep to acquire shepherds !
think of what this got them .
they could outsource all their problems -- protection from predators , food finding , health maintenance .
the only cost in most flocks is a loss of free mating .
what a deal .
" how clever of sheep ! " you might say .
except , of course , it wasn 't the sheep 's cleverness .
we all know sheep are not exactly rocket scientists -- they 're not very smart .
it wasn 't the cleverness of the sheep at all .
they were clueless .
but it was a very clever move .
whose clever move was it ?
it was a clever move of natural selection itself .
francis crick , the co-discoverer of the structure of dna with jim watson , once joked about what he called orgel 's second rule .
leslie orgel is still a molecular biologist , brilliant guy , and orgel 's second rule is : evolution is cleverer than you are .
now , that is not intelligent design -- not from francis crick .
evolution is cleverer than you are .
if you understand orgel 's second rule , then you understand why the intelligent design movement is basically a hoax .
the designs discovered by the process of natural selection are brilliant , unbelievably brilliant .
again and again biologists are fascinated with the brilliance of what 's discovered .
but the process itself is without purpose ,
without foresight , without design .
when i was here four years ago , i told the story about an ant climbing a blade of grass .
and why was the ant doing it ?
well , it 's because its brain had been infected with a lancet fluke that was -- needed to get into the belly of a sheep or a cow in order to reproduce .
it was sort of a spooky story .
and i think some people may have misunderstood .
lancet flukes aren 't smart .
i submit that the intelligence of a lancet fluke is down there somewhere between petunia and carrot .
they 're not really bright . they don 't have to be .
the lesson we learn from this is you don 't have to have a mind to be a beneficiary .
the design is there in nature , but it 's not in anybody 's head .
it doesn 't have to be .
that 's the way evolution works .
the question -- was domestication good for sheep ?
it was great for their genetic fitness .
and here i want to remind you of a wonderful point that paul maccready made at ted three years ago .
here 's what he said .
10,000 years ago at the dawn of agriculture , human population , plus livestock and pets , was approximately a tenth of one per cent of the terrestrial vertebrae landmass .
that was just 10,000 years ago .
yesterday , in biological terms .
what is it today ? does anybody remember what he told us ?
98 percent .
that is what we have done on this planet .
now , i talked to paul afterwards .
i wanted to check to find out how he 'd calculated this ,
and get the sources and so forth .
and he gave me a paper that he had written on this .
there was a passage in it which he did not present here and i think it is so good i 'm going to read it to you .
" over billions of years on a unique sphere , chance has painted a thin covering of life : complex , improbable , wonderful and fragile . suddenly , we humans , a recently arrived species no longer subject to the checks and balances inherent in nature , have grown in population , technology and intelligence to a position of terrible power .
we now wield the paintbrush . "
we heard about the atmosphere as a thin layer of varnish .
life itself is just a thin coat of paint on this planet .
and we 're the ones that hold the paintbrush .
and how can we do that ?
the key to our domination of the planet is culture ,
and the key to culture is religion .
suppose martian scientists came to earth .
they would be puzzled by many things .
anybody know what this is ?
i 'll tell you what it is .
this is a million people gathering on the banks of the ganges in 2001 , perhaps the largest single gathering of human beings ever , as seen from satellite photograph .
here 's a big crowd .
here 's another crowd in mecca .
martians would be amazed by this .
they 'd want to know how it originated , what it was for and how it perpetuates itself .
actually , i 'm going to pass over this .
the ant isn 't alone .
there 's all sorts of wonderful cases of species .
in that case , a parasite gets into a mouse and it needs to get into the belly of a cat .
and it turns the mouse into mighty mouse -- it makes it fearless , so it runs out in the open , where it 'll be eaten by a cat .
true story .
in other words , we have these hijackers -- you 've seen this slide before , from four years ago -- a parasite that infects the brain and induces even suicidal behavior on behalf of a cause other than one 's own genetic fitness .
does that ever happen to us ?
yes , it does -- quite wonderfully .
the arabic word " islam " means " submission . "
it means " surrender of self-interest to the will of allah . "
but i 'm not just talking about islam .
i 'm talking also about christianity .
this is a parchment music page that i found in a paris bookstall 50 years ago .
and on it it says , in latin : the word of god is the seed and the sower of the seed is christ . "
same idea ! well , not quite .
but in fact , christians , too , glory in the fact that they have surrendered to god .
i 'll give you a few quotes .
" the heart of worship is surrender .
surrendered people obey god 's words , even if it doesn 't make sense . "
those words are by rick warren .
those are from " the purpose driven life . "
and i want to turn now , briefly , to talk about that book , which i 've read .
you 've all got a copy .
you 've just heard the man .
and what i want to do now is say a bit about this book from the design standpoint , because i think it 's actually a brilliant book .
first of all , the goal .
and you heard just now what the goal is .
it 's to bring purpose to the lives of millions , and he has succeeded .
is it a good goal ?
in itself , i 'm sure we all agree , it is a wonderful goal .
he 's absolutely right .
there are lots of people out there who don 't have purpose in their life , and bringing purpose to their life is a wonderful goal .
i give him an a + on this .
is the goal achieved ?
yes .
30 million copies of this book .
al gore , eat your heart out .
just exactly what al is trying to do , rick is doing .
this is a fantastic achievement .
and , the means -- how does he do it ?
it 's a brilliant redesign of traditional religious themes -- updating them , quietly dropping obsolete features , putting new interpretations on other features .
this is the evolution of religion that 's been going on for thousands of years , and he 's just the latest brilliant practitioner of it .
i don 't have to tell you this . you 've just heard the man .
excellent insights into human psychology , wise advice on every page .
moreover , he invites us to look under the hood .
i really appreciated that .
for instance , he has an appendix where he explains his choice of translations of different bible verses .
the book is clear , vivid , accessible , beautifully formatted .
just enough repetition .
that 's really important .
every time you read it or say it , you make another copy in your brain .
every time you read it or say it , you make another copy in your brain .
with me , everybody -- every time you read it or say it , you make another copy in your brain .
thank you .
and now we come to my problem .
because i 'm absolutely sincere in my appreciation of all that i 've said about this book .
but i wish it were better .
i have some problems with the book .
and it would just be insincere of me not to address those problems .
i wish he could do this with a revision , a mark 2 version of his book .
" the truth will set you free " -- that 's what it says in the bible , and it 's something that i want to live by , too .
my problem is , some of the bits in it i don 't think are true .
now some of this is a difference of opinion , and that 's not my main complaint .
that 's worth mentioning .
here 's a passage -- it 's very much what he said , anyway .
" if there was no god we would all be accidents , the result of astronomical random chance in the universe .
you could stop reading this book because life would have no purpose or meaning or significance .
there would be no right or wrong and no hope beyond your brief years on earth . "
now , i just do not believe that .
by the way , i find homer groening 's film presented a beautiful alternative to that very claim .
yes , there is meaning and a reason for right or wrong .
we don 't need a belief in god to be good or to have meaning in us .
but that is just a difference of opinion .
that 's not what i 'm really worried about .
how about this -- " god designed this planet 's environment just so we could live in it . "
i 'm afraid that a lot of people take that sentiment to mean that we don 't have to do the sorts of things that al gore is trying so hard to get us to do .
i 'm not happy with that sentiment at all .
and then i find this -- " all the evidence available in the biological sciences supports the core proposition that the cosmos is especially designed whole with life and mankind as its fundamental goal and purpose , a whole in which all facets of reality have their meaning and explanation in this central fact . "
well , that 's michael denton . he 's a creationist .
and here i think , " wait a minute . "
i read this again .
i read it three or four times and i think , " is he really endorsing intelligent design ?
is he endorsing creationism here ? "
and you can 't tell .
so i 'm sort of thinking , " well , i don 't know , i don 't know if i want to get upset with this yet . "
but then i read on and i read this : " first , noah had never seen rain , because prior to the flood god irrigated the earth from the ground up . "
i wish that sentence weren 't in there , because i think it is false .
and i think that thinking this way about the history of the planet , after we 've just been hearing about the history of the planet over millions of years , discourages people from scientific understanding .
now , rick warren uses scientific terms and scientific factoids and information in a very interesting way .
here 's one : " god deliberately shaped and formed you to serve him in a way that makes your ministry unique .
he carefully mixed the dna cocktail that created you . "
i think that 's false .
now maybe we want to treat it as metaphorical .
here 's another one -- " for instance , your brain can store 100 trillion facts .
your mind can handle 15,000 decisions a second . "
well , it would be interesting to find the interpretation where i would accept that .
there might be some way of treating that as true .
" anthropologists have noted that worship is a universal urge , hardwired by god into the very fiber of our being , an inbuilt need to connect with god . "
well , there 's a sense which i agree with him , except i think it has an evolutionary explanation .
and what i find deeply troubling in this book is that he seems to be arguing that if you want to be moral , if you want to have meaning in your life , you have to be an intelligent designer -- you have to deny the theory of evolution by natural selection .
and i think , on the contrary , that it is very important to solving the world 's problems that we take evolutionary biology seriously .
whose truth are we going to listen to ?
well , this from " the purpose driven life " -- " the bible must become the authoritative standard for my life , the compass i rely on for direction , the counsel i listen to for making wise decisions and the benchmark i use for evaluating everything . "
well maybe , ok , but what 's going to follow from this ?
and here 's one that does concern me .
remember i quoted him before with this line -- " surrendered people obey god 's word , even if it doesn 't make sense . "
and that 's a problem .
" don 't ever argue with the devil .
he 's better at arguing than you are , having had thousands of years to practice . "
now rick warren didn 't invent this clever move .
it 's an old move .
it 's a very clever adaptation of religions .
it 's a wildcard for disarming any reasonable criticism .
" you don 't like my interpretation ?
you 've got a reasonable objection to it ?
don 't listen , don 't listen !
that 's the devil speaking . "
this discourages the sort of reasoning citizenship it seems to me that we want to have .
i 've got one more problem , then i 'm through .
and i 'd really like to get a response if rick is able to do it .
" in the great commission , jesus said , ' go to all people of all nations and make them my disciples . baptize them in the name of the father , the son and the holy spirit , and teach them to do everything i 've told you . ' "
the bible says jesus is the only one who can save the world .
now here we 've seen many wonderful maps of the world in the last day or so .
here 's one , not as beautiful as the others .
it simply shows the religions of the world .
and here 's one that shows the sort of current breakdown of the different religions .
now do we really want to commit ourselves to engulfing all the other religions when their holy books are telling them , " don 't listen to the other side , that 's just satan talking ! "
it seems to me that that 's a very problematic ship to get on for the future .
i found this sign as i was driving to maine recently , in front of a church -- " good without god becomes zero . " sort of cute .
a very clever little meme .
i don 't believe it and i think this idea , popular as it is -- not in this guise but in general -- is itself one of the main problems that we face .
if you are like me , you know many wonderful , committed , engaged atheists , agnostics , who are being very good without god .
and you also know many religious people who hide behind their sanctity instead of doing good works .
so , i wish we could drop this meme .
i wish this meme would go extinct .
thanks very much for your attention .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / julian _ treasure _ shh _ sound _ health _ in _ 8 _ steps.html
julian treasure says our increasingly noisy world is gnawing away at our mental health -- even costing lives . he lays out an 8-step plan to soften this sonic assault and restore our relationship with sound .
design , music , nature , psychology , science
965
julian treasure : shh ! sound health in 8 steps
the hindus say , " nada brahma , " one translation of which is , " the world is sound . "
and in a way , that 's true , because everything is vibrating .
in fact , all of you as you sit here right now are vibrating .
every part of your body is vibrating at different frequencies .
so you are , in fact , a chord -- each of you an individual chord .
one definition of health may be that that chord is in complete harmony .
your ears can 't hear that chord ;
they can actually hear amazing things . your ears can hear 10 octaves .
incidentally , we see just one octave .
your ears are always on -- you have no ear lids .
they work even when you sleep .
the smallest sound you can perceive moves your eardrum just four atomic diameters .
the loudest sound you can hear is a trillion times more powerful than that .
ears are made not for hearing , but for listening .
listening is an active skill ,
whereas hearing is passive , listening is something that we have to work at --
it 's a relationship with sound .
and yet it 's a skill that none of us are taught .
for example , have you ever considered that there are listening positions , places you can listen from ?
here are two of them .
reductive listening is listening " for . "
it reduces everything down to what 's relevant and it discards everything that 's not relevant .
men typically listen reductively .
so he 's saying , " i 've got this problem . "
he 's saying , " here 's your solution . thanks very much . next . "
that 's the way we talk , right guys ?
expansive listening , on the other hand , is listening " with , " not listening " for . "
it 's got no destination in mind --
it 's just enjoying the journey .
women typically listen expansively . if you look at these two , eye contact , facing each other , possibly both talking at the same time .
men , if you get nothing else out of this talk , practice expansive listening ,
and you can transform your relationships .
the trouble with listening is that so much of what we hear is noise , surrounding us all the time .
noise like this , according to the european union , is reducing the health and the quality of life of 25 percent of the population of europe .
two percent of the population of europe -- that 's 16 million people -- are having their sleep devastated by noise like that .
noise kills 200,000 people a year in europe .
it 's a really big problem .
now , when you were little , if you had noise and you didn 't want to hear it , you 'd stick your fingers in your ears and hum .
these days , you can do a similar thing , it just looks a bit cooler .
it looks a bit like this .
the trouble with widespread headphone use is it brings three really big health issues .
the first really big health issue is a word that murray schafer coined : " schizophonia . "
it 's a dislocation between what you see and what you hear .
so , we 're inviting into our lives the voices of people who are not present with us .
i think there 's something deeply unhealthy about living all the time in schizophonia .
the second problem that comes with headphone abuse is compression .
we squash music to fit it into our pocket and there is a cost attached to this .
listen to this -- this is an uncompressed piece of music .
and now the same piece of music with 98 percent of the data removed .
i do hope that some of you at least can hear the difference between those two .
there is a cost of compression .
it makes you tired and irritable to have to make up all of that data .
you 're having to imagine it .
it 's not good for you in the long run .
the third problem with headphones is this : deafness -- noise-induced hearing disorder .
ten million americans already have this for one reason or another , but really worryingly , 16 percent -- roughly one in six -- of american teenagers suffer from noise-induced hearing disorder as a result of headphone abuse .
one study at an american university found that 61 percent of college freshmen had damaged hearing as a result of headphone abuse .
we may be raising an entire generation of deaf people .
now that 's a really serious problem .
i 'll give you three quick tips to protect your ears and pass these on to your children , please .
professional hearing protectors are great ; i use some all the time .
if you 're going to use headphones , buy the best ones you can afford because quality means you don 't have to have it so loud .
if you can 't hear somebody talking to you in a loud voice , it 's too loud .
and thirdly , if you 're in bad sound , it 's fine to put your fingers in your ears or just move away from it .
protect your ears in that way .
let 's move away from bad sound and look at some friends that i urge you to seek out .
wwb : wind , water , birds -- stochastic natural sounds composed of lots of individual random events , all of it very healthy , all of it sound that we evolved to over the years .
seek those sounds out ; they 're good for you and so it this .
silence is beautiful .
the elizabethans described language as decorated silence .
i urge you to move away from silence with intention and to design soundscapes just like works of art .
have a foreground , a background , all in beautiful proportion . it 's fun to get into designing with sound .
if you can 't do it yourself , get a professional to do it for you .
sound design is the future , and i think it 's the way we 're going to change the way the world sounds .
i 'm going to just run quickly through eight modalities , eight ways sound can improve health .
first , ultrasound : we 're very familiar with it from physical therapy ;
it 's also now being used to treat cancer .
lithotripsy -- saving thousands of people a year from the scalpel by pulverizing stones with high-intensity sound .
sound healing is a wonderful modality .
it 's been around for thousands of years .
i do urge you to explore this .
there are great things being done there , treating now autism , dementia and other conditions .
and music , of course . just listening to music is good for you , if it 's music that 's made with good intention , made with love , generally .
devotional music , good -- mozart , good .
there are all sorts of types of music that are very healthy .
and four modalities where you need to take some action and get involved .
first of all , listen consciously .
i hope that that after this talk you 'll be doing that .
it 's a whole new dimension to your life and it 's wonderful to have that dimension .
secondly , get in touch with making some sound --
create sound .
the voice is the instrument we all play , and yet how many of us are trained in using our voice ? get trained ;
learn to sing , learn to play an instrument .
musicians have bigger brains -- it 's true .
you can do this in groups as well .
it 's a fantastic antidote to schizophonia ; to make music and sound in a group of people , whichever style you enjoy particularly .
and let 's take a stewarding role for the sound around us .
protect your ears ? yes , absolutely .
design soundscapes to be beautiful around you at home and at work .
and let 's start to speak up when people are assailing us with the noise that i played you early on .
so i 'm going to leave you with seven things you can do right now to improve your health with sound .
my vision is of a world that sounds beautiful and if we all start doing these things , we will take a very big step in that direction .
so i urge you to take that path .
i 'm leaving you with a little more birdsong , which is very good for you .
i wish you sound health .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / janna _ levin _ the _ sound _ the _ universe _ makes.html
we think of space as a silent place . but physicist janna levin says the universe has a soundtrack -- a sonic composition that records some of the most dramatic events in outer space . an accessible and mind-expanding soundwalk through the universe .
science , universe
1095
janna levin : the sound the universe makes
i want to ask you all to consider for a second the very simple fact that , by far , most of what we know about the universe comes to us from light .
we can stand on the earth and look up at the night sky and see stars with our bare eyes .
the sun burns our peripheral vision . we see light reflected off the moon . and in the time since galileo pointed that rudimentary telescope at the celestial bodies , the known universe has come to us through light , across vast eras in cosmic history .
and with all of our modern telescopes , we 've been able to collect this stunning silent movie of the universe -- these series of snapshots that go all the way back to the big bang .
and yet , the universe is not a silent movie because the universe isn 't silent .
i 'd like to convince you that the universe has a soundtrack and that soundtrack is played on space itself ,
because space can wobble like a drum .
it can ring out a kind of recording throughout the universe of some of the most dramatic events as they unfold .
now we 'd like to be able to add to a kind of glorious visual composition that we have of the universe -- a sonic composition .
and while we 've never heard the sounds from space , we really should , in the next few years , start to turn up the volume on what 's going on out there .
so in this ambition to capture songs from the universe , we turn our focus to black holes and the promise they have , because black holes can bang on space-time like mallets on a drum and have a very characteristic song ,
which i 'd like to play for you -- some of our predictions for what that song will be like .
now black holes are dark against a dark sky .
we can 't see them directly .
they 're not brought to us with light , at least not directly .
we can see them indirectly , because black holes wreak havoc on their environment .
they destroy stars around them .
they churn up debris in their surroundings .
but they won 't come to us directly through light .
we might one day see a shadow a black hole can cast on a very bright background , but we haven 't yet .
and yet black holes may be heard even if they 're not seen , and that 's because they bang on space-time like a drum .
now we owe the idea that space can ring like a drum to albert einstein -- to whom we owe so much .
einstein realized that if space were empty , if the universe were empty , it would be like this picture , except for maybe without the helpful grid drawn on it .
but if we were freely falling through the space , even without this helpful grid , we might be able to paint it ourselves , because we would notice that we traveled along straight lines , undeflected straight paths through the universe .
einstein also realized -- and this is the real meat of the matter -- that if you put energy or mass in the universe , it would curve space ,
and a freely falling object would pass by , let 's say , the sun and it would be deflected along the natural curves in the space .
it was einstein 's great general theory of relativity .
now even light will be bent by those paths .
and you can be bent so much that you 're caught in orbit around the sun , as the earth is , or the moon around the earth .
these are the natural curves in space .
what einstein did not realize was that , if you took our sun and you crushed it down to six kilometers -- so you took a million times the mass of the earth and you crushed it to six kilometers across , you would make a black hole , an object so dense that if light veered too close , it would never escape -- a dark shadow against the universe .
it wasn 't einstein who realized this , it was karl schwarzschild who was a german jew in world war i -- joined the german army already an accomplished scientist , working on the russian front .
i like to imagine schwarzschild in the war in the trenches calculating ballistic trajectories for cannon fire , and then , in between , calculating einstein 's equations -- as you do in the trenches .
and he was reading einstein 's recently published general theory of relativity , and he was thrilled by this theory .
and he quickly surmised an exact mathematical solution that described something very extraordinary : curves so strong that space would rain down into them , space itself would curve like a waterfall flowing down the throat of a hole .
and even light could not escape this current .
light would be dragged down the hole as everything else would be , and all that would be left would be a shadow .
now he wrote to einstein , and he said , " as you will see , the war has been kind to me enough . despite the heavy gunfire ,
i 've been able to get away from it all and walk through the land of your ideas . "
and einstein was very impressed with his exact solution , and i should hope also the dedication of the scientist .
this is the hardworking scientist under harsh conditions .
and he took schwarzschild 's idea to the prussian academy of sciences the next week .
but einstein always thought black holes were a mathematical oddity .
he did not believe they existed in nature .
he thought nature would protect us from their formation .
it was decades before the term " black hole " was coined and people realized that black holes are real astrophysical objects -- in fact they 're the death state of very massive stars that collapse catastrophically at the end of their lifetime .
now our sun will not collapse to a black hole .
it 's actually not massive enough .
but if we did a little thought experiment -- as einstein was very fond of doing -- we could imagine putting the sun crushed down to six kilometers , and putting a tiny little earth around it in orbit , maybe 30 kilometers outside of the black-hole sun .
and it would be self-illuminated , because now the sun 's gone , we have no other source of light -- so let 's make our little earth self-illuminated .
and you would realize you could put the earth in a happy orbit even 30 km outside of this crushed black hole .
this crushed black hole actually would fit inside manhattan , more or less .
it might spill off into the hudson a little bit before it destroyed the earth .
but basically that 's what we 're talking about .
we 're talking about an object that you could crush down to half the square area of manhattan .
so we move this earth very close -- 30 kilometers outside -- and we notice it 's perfectly fine orbiting around the black hole .
there 's a sort of myth that black holes devour everything in the universe , but you actually have to get very close to fall in .
but what 's very impressive is that , from our vantage point , we can always see the earth .
it cannot hide behind the black hole .
the light from the earth , some of it falls in , but some of it gets lensed around and brought back to us .
so you can 't hide anything behind a black hole .
if this were battlestar galactica and you 're fighting the cylons , don 't hide behind the black hole .
they can see you .
now , our sun will not collapse to a black hole -- it 's not massive enough -- but there are tens of thousands of black holes in our galaxy .
and if one were to eclipse the milky way , this is what it would look like .
we would see a shadow of that black hole against the hundred billion stars in the milky way galaxy and its luminous dust lanes .
and if we were to fall towards this black hole , we would see all of that light lensed around it , and we could even start to cross into that shadow and really not notice that anything dramatic had happened .
it would be bad if we tried to fire our rockets and get out of there because we couldn 't , anymore than light can escape .
but even though the black hole is dark from the outside , it 's not dark on the inside , because all of the light from the galaxy can fall in behind us .
and even though , due to a relativistic effect known as time dilation , our clocks would seem to slow down relative to galactic time , it would look as though the evolution of the galaxy had been sped up and shot at us , right before we were crushed to death by the black hole .
it would be like a near-death experience where you see the light at the end of the tunnel , but it 's a total death experience .
and there 's no way of telling anybody about the light at the end of the tunnel .
now we 've never seen a shadow like this of a black hole , but black holes can be heard , even if they 're not seen .
imagine now taking an astrophysically realistic situation -- imagine two black holes that have lived a long life together .
maybe they started as stars and collapsed to two black holes -- each one 10 times the mass of the sun .
so now we 're going to crush them down to 60 kilometers across .
they can be spinning hundreds of times a second .
at the end of their lives , they 're going around each other very near the speed of light .
so they 're crossing thousands of kilometers in a fraction of a second ,
and as they do so , they not only curve space , but they leave behind in their wake a ringing of space , an actual wave on space-time .
space squeezes and stretches as it emanates out from these black holes banging on the universe .
and they travel out into the cosmos at the speed of light .
this computer simulation is due to a relativity group at nasa goddard .
it took almost 30 years for anyone in the world to crack this problem .
this was one of the groups .
it shows two black holes in orbit around each other , again , with these helpfully painted curves .
and if you can see -- it 's kind of faint -- but if you can see the red waves emanating out , those are the gravitational waves .
they 're literally the sounds of space ringing , and they will travel out from these black holes at the speed of light as they ring down and coalesce to one spinning , quiet black hole at the end of the day .
if you were standing near enough , your ear would resonate with the squeezing and stretching of space .
you would literally hear the sound .
now of course , your head would be squeezed and stretched unhelpfully , so you might have trouble understanding what 's going on .
but i 'd like to play for you the sound that we predict .
this is from my group -- a slightly less glamorous computer modeling .
imagine a lighter black hole falling into a very heavy black hole .
the sound you 're hearing is the light black hole banging on space each time it gets close .
if it gets far away , it 's a little too quiet .
but it comes in like a mallet , and it literally cracks space , wobbling it like a drum .
and we can predict what the sound will be .
we know that , as it falls in , it gets faster and it gets louder .
and eventually , we 're going to hear the little guy just fall into the bigger guy .
then it 's gone .
now i 've never heard it that loud -- it 's actually more dramatic .
at home it sounds kind of anticlimactic .
it 's sort of like ding , ding , ding .
this is another sound from my group .
no , i 'm not showing you any images , because black holes don 't leave behind helpful trails of ink , and space is not painted , showing you the curves .
but if you were to float by in space on a space holiday and you heard this , you want to get moving .
want to get away from the sound .
both black holes are moving .
both black holes are getting closer together .
in this case , they 're both wobbling quite a lot .
and then they 're going to merge .
now it 's gone .
now that chirp is very characteristic of black holes merging -- that it chirps up at the end .
now that 's our prediction for what we 'll see .
luckily we 're at this safe distance in long beach , california .
and surely , somewhere in the universe two black holes have merged .
and surely , the space around us is ringing after traveling maybe a million light years , or a million years , at the speed of light to get to us .
but the sound is too quiet for any of us to ever hear .
there are very industrious experiments being built on earth -- one called ligo -- which will detect deviations in the squeezing and stretching of space at less than the fraction of a nucleus of an atom over four kilometers .
it 's a remarkably ambitious experiment , and it 's going to be at advanced sensitivity within the next few years -- to pick this up .
there 's also a mission proposed for space , which hopefully will launch in the next ten years , called lisa . and lisa will be able to see super-massive black holes -- black holes millions or billions of times the mass of the sun .
in this hubble image , we see two galaxies .
they look like they 're frozen in some embrace .
and each one probably harbors a super-massive black hole at its core .
but they 're not frozen ; they 're actually merging .
these two black holes are colliding , and they will merge over a billion-year time scale .
it 's beyond our human perception to pick up a song of that duration .
but lisa could see the final stages of two super-massive black holes earlier in the universe 's history , the last 15 minutes before they fall together .
and it 's not just black holes , but it 's also any big disturbance in the universe -- and the biggest of them all is the big bang .
when that expression was coined , it was derisive -- like , " oh , who would believe in a big bang ? " but now it actually might be more technically accurate because it might bang . it might make a sound .
this animation from my friends at proton studios shows looking at the big bang from the outside .
we don 't ever want to do that actually . we want to be inside the universe because there 's no such thing as standing outside the universe .
so imagine you 're inside the big bang .
it 's everywhere , it 's all around you , and the space is wobbling chaotically .
fourteen billion years pass and this song is still ringing all around us .
galaxies form , and generations of stars form in those galaxies ,
and around one star , at least one star , is a habitable planet .
and here we are frantically building these experiments , doing these calculations , writing these computer codes .
imagine a billion years ago , two black holes collided .
that song has been ringing through space for all that time .
we weren 't even here .
it gets closer and closer -- 40,000 years ago , we 're still doing cave paintings .
it 's like hurry , build your instruments .
it 's getting closer and closer , and in 20 ... whatever year it will be when our detectors are finally at advanced sensitivity -- we 'll build them , we 'll turn on the machines and , bang , we 'll catch it -- the first song from space .
if it was the big bang we were going to pick up , it would sound like this .
it 's a terrible sound .
it 's literally the definition of noise .
it 's white noise ; it 's such a chaotic ringing .
but it 's around us everywhere , presumably , if it hasn 't been wiped out by some other process in the universe .
and if we pick it up , it will be music to our ears because it will be the quiet echo of that moment of our creation , of our observable universe .
so within the next few years , we 'll be able to turn up the soundtrack a little bit , render the universe in audio .
but if we detect those earliest moments , it 'll bring us that much closer to an understanding of the big bang , which brings us that much closer to asking some of the hardest , most elusive , questions .
if we run the movie of our universe backwards , we know that there was a big bang in our past , and we might even hear the cacophonous sound of it , but was our big bang the only big bang ?
i mean we have to ask , has it happened before ?
will it happen again ?
i mean , in the spirit of rising to ted 's challenge to reignite wonder , we can ask questions , at least for this last minute , that honestly might evade us forever .
but we have to ask : is it possible that our universe is just a plume off of some greater history ?
or , is it possible that we 're just a branch off of a multiverse -- each branch with its own big bang in its past -- maybe some of them with black holes playing drums , maybe some without -- maybe some with sentient life , and maybe some without -- not in our past , not in our future , but somehow fundamentally connected to us ?
so we have to wonder , if there is a multiverse , in some other patch of that multiverse , are there creatures ?
here 's my multiverse creatures .
are there other creatures in the multiverse , wondering about us and wondering about their own origins ?
and if they are , i can imagine them as we are , calculating , writing computer code , building instruments , trying to detect that faintest sound of their origins and wondering who else is out there .
thank you . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / nalini _ nadkarni _ life _ science _ in _ prison.html
nalini nadkarni challenges our perspective on trees and prisons -- she says both can be more dynamic than we think . through a partnership with the state of washington , she brings science classes and conservation programs to inmates , with unexpected results .
biosphere , crime , environment , nature , prison , social change
911
nalini nadkarni : life science in prison
trees epitomize stasis .
trees are rooted in the ground in one place for many human generations ,
but if we shift our perspective from the trunk to the twigs , trees become very dynamic entities , moving and growing .
and i decided to explore this movement by turning trees into artists .
i simply tied the end of a paintbrush onto a twig .
i waited for the wind to come up and held up a canvas ,
and that produced art .
the piece of art you see on your left is painted by a western red cedar and that on your right by a douglas fir ,
and what i learned was that different species have different signatures , like a picasso versus a monet .
but i was also interested in the movement of trees and how this art might let me capture that and quantify it ,
so to measure the distance that a single vine maple tree -- which produced this painting -- moved in a single year , i simply measured and summed each of those lines .
i multiplied them by the number of twigs per branch and the number of branches per tree and then divided that by the number of minutes per year .
and so i was able to calculate how far a single tree moved in a single year .
you might have a guess .
the answer is actually 186,540 miles , or seven times around the globe .
and so simply by shifting our perspective from a single trunk to the many dynamic twigs , we are able to see that trees are not simply static entities , but rather extremely dynamic .
and i began to think about ways that we might consider this lesson of trees , to consider other entities that are also static and stuck , but which cry for change and dynamicism ,
and one of those entities is our prisons .
prisons , of course , are where people who break our laws are stuck , confined behind bars .
and our prison system itself is stuck .
the united states has over 2.3 million incarcerated men and women .
that number is rising .
of the 100 incarcerated people that are released , 60 will return to prison .
funds for education , for training and for rehabilitation are declining ,
so this despairing cycle of incarceration continues .
i decided to ask whether the lesson i had learned from trees as artists could be applied to a static institution such as our prisons ,
and i think the answer is yes .
in the year 2007 , i started a partnership with the washington state department of corrections . working with four prisons , we began bringing science and scientists , sustainability and conservation projects to four state prisons .
we give science lectures ,
and the men here are choosing to come to our science lectures instead of watching television or weightlifting .
that , i think , is movement .
we partnered with the nature conservancy for inmates at stafford creek correctional center to grow endangered prairie plants for restoration of relic prairie areas in washington state .
that , i think , is movement .
we worked with the washington state department of fish and wildlife to grow endangered frogs -- the oregon spotted frog -- for later release into protected wetlands .
that , i think , is movement .
and just recently , we 've begun to work with those men who are segregated in what we call supermax facilities .
they 've incurred violent infractions by becoming violent with guards and with other prisoners .
they 're kept in bare cells like this for 23 hours a day .
when they have meetings with their review boards or mental health professionals , they 're placed in immobile booths like this .
for one hour a day they 're brought to these bleak and bland exercise yards .
although we can 't bring trees and prairie plants and frogs into these environments , we are bringing images of nature into these exercise yards , putting them on the walls , so at least they get contact with visual images of nature .
this is mr. lopez , who has been in solitary confinement for 18 months ,
and he 's providing input on the types of images that he believes would make him and his fellow inmates more serene , more calm , less apt to violence .
and so what we see , i think , is that small , collective movements of change can perhaps move an entity such as our own prison system in a direction of hope .
we know that trees are static entities when we look at their trunks .
but if trees can create art , if they can encircle the globe seven times in one year , if prisoners can grow plants and raise frogs , then perhaps there are other static entities that we hold inside ourselves , like grief , like addictions , like racism , that can also change .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / swami _ dayananda _ saraswati.html
swami dayananda saraswati unravels the parallel paths of personal development and attaining true compassion . he walks us through each step of self-realization , from helpless infancy to the fearless act of caring for others .
charter for compassion , chautauqua , compassion , global issues , religion , self
674
swami dayananda saraswati : the profound journey of compassion
a human child is born , and for quite a long time is a consumer .
it cannot be consciously a contributor .
it is helpless .
it doesn 't know how to survive , even though it is endowed with an instinct to survive .
it needs the help of mother , or a foster mother , to survive .
it can 't afford to doubt the person who tends the child .
it has to totally surrender , as one surrenders to an anesthesiologist .
it has to totally surrender .
that implies a lot of trust .
that implies the trusted person won 't violate the trust .
as the child grows , it begins to discover that the person trusted is violating the trust .
it doesn 't know even the word " violation . "
therefore , it has to blame itself ,
a wordless blame , which is more difficult to really resolve -- the wordless self-blame .
as the child grows to become an adult : so far , it has been a consumer , but the growth of a human being lies in his or her capacity to contribute , to be a contributor .
one cannot contribute unless one feels secure , one feels big , one feels : i have enough .
to be compassionate is not a joke .
it 's not that simple .
one has to discover a certain bigness in oneself .
that bigness should be centered on oneself , not in terms of money , not in terms of power you wield , not in terms of any status that you can command in the society , but it should be centered on oneself .
the self : you are self-aware .
on that self , it should be centered -- a bigness , a wholeness . otherwise , compassion is just a word and a dream .
you can be compassionate occasionally , more moved by empathy than by compassion .
thank god we are empathetic .
when somebody 's in pain , we pick up the pain .
in a wimbledon final match , these two guys fight it out .
each one has got two games .
it can be anybody 's game .
what they have sweated so far has no meaning .
one person wins .
the tennis etiquette is , both the players have to come to the net and shake hands .
the winner boxes the air and kisses the ground , throws his shirt as though somebody is waiting for it .
and this guy has to come to the net .
when he comes to the net , you see , his whole face changes .
it looks as though he 's wishing that he didn 't win .
why ? empathy .
that 's human heart .
no human heart is denied of that empathy .
no religion can demolish that by indoctrination .
no culture , no nation and nationalism -- nothing can touch it because it is empathy .
and that capacity to empathize is the window through which you reach out to people , you do something that makes a difference in somebody 's life --
even words , even time .
compassion is not defined in one form .
there 's no indian compassion .
there 's no american compassion .
it transcends nation , the gender , the age .
why ? because it is there in everybody .
it 's experienced by people occasionally .
then this occasional compassion , we are not talking about --
it will never remain occasional .
by mandate , you cannot make a person compassionate .
you can 't say , " please love me . "
love is something you discover .
it 's not an action , but in the english language , it is also an action .
i will come to it later .
so one has got to discover a certain wholeness .
i am going to cite the possibility of being whole , which is within our experience , everybody 's experience .
in spite of a very tragic life , one is happy in moments which are very few and far between .
and the one who is happy , even for a slapstick joke , accepts himself and also the scheme of things in which one finds oneself .
that means the whole universe , known things and unknown things .
all of them are totally accepted because you discover your wholeness in yourself .
the subject -- " me " -- and the object -- the scheme of things -- fuse into oneness , an experience nobody can say , " i am denied of , " an experience common to all and sundry .
that experience confirms that , in spite of all your limitations -- all your wants , desires , unfulfilled , and the credit cards and layoffs and , finally , baldness -- you can be happy .
but the extension of the logic is that you don 't need to fulfill your desire to be happy .
you are the very happiness , the wholeness that you want to be .
there 's no choice in this :
that only confirms the reality that the wholeness cannot be different from you , cannot be minus you .
it has got to be you .
you cannot be a part of wholeness and still be whole .
your moment of happiness reveals that reality , that realization , that recognition :
" maybe i am the whole .
maybe the swami is right .
maybe the swami is right . " you start your new life .
then everything becomes meaningful .
i have no more reason to blame myself .
if one has to blame oneself , one has a million reasons plus many . but if i say , in spite of my body being limited -- if it is black it is not white , if it is white it is not black : body is limited any which way you look at it . limited .
your knowledge is limited , health is limited , and power is therefore limited , and the cheerfulness is going to be limited .
compassion is going to be limited .
everything is going to be limitless .
you cannot command compassion unless you become limitless , and nobody can become limitless , either you are or you are not . period .
and there is no way of your being not limitless too .
your own experience reveals , in spite of all limitations , you are the whole .
and the wholeness is the reality of you when you relate to the world .
it is love first .
when you relate to the world , the dynamic manifestation of the wholeness is , what we say , love .
and itself becomes compassion if the object that you relate to evokes that emotion .
then that again transforms into giving , into sharing .
you express yourself because you have compassion .
to discover compassion , you need to be compassionate .
to discover the capacity to give and share , you need to be giving and sharing .
there is no shortcut : it is like swimming by swimming .
you learn swimming by swimming .
you cannot learn swimming on a foam mattress and enter into water .
you learn swimming by swimming . you learn cycling by cycling .
you learn cooking by cooking , having some sympathetic people around you to eat what you cook .
and , therefore , what i say , you have to fake it and make it .
you need to .
my predecessor meant that .
you have to act it out .
you have to act compassionately .
there is no verb for compassion , but you have an adverb for compassion .
that 's interesting to me .
you act compassionately .
but then , how to act compassionately if you don 't have compassion ?
that is where you fake .
you fake it and make it . this is the mantra of the united states of america .
you fake it and make it .
you act compassionately as though you have compassion : grind your teeth , take all the support system . if you know how to pray , pray .
ask for compassion .
let me act compassionately .
do it . you 'll discover compassion and also slowly a relative compassion , and slowly , perhaps if you get the right teaching , you 'll discover compassion is a dynamic manifestation of the reality of yourself , which is oneness , wholeness , and that 's what you are .
with these words , thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / shirin _ neshat _ art _ in _ exile.html
iranian-born artist shirin neshat explores the paradox of being an artist in exile : a voice for her people , but unable to go home . in her work , she explores iran pre- and post-islamic revolution , tracing political and societal change through powerful images of women .
arts , film , global issues , photography , politics , women
1154
shirin neshat : art in exile
the story i wanted to share with you today is my challenge as an iranian artist , as an iranian woman artist , as an iranian woman artist living in exile .
well , it has its pluses and minuses .
on the dark side , politics doesn 't seem to escape people like me .
every iranian artist , in one form or another , is political .
politics have defined our lives .
if you 're living in iran , you 're facing censorship , harassment , arrest , torture -- at times , execution .
if you 're living outside like me , you 're faced with life in exile -- the pain of the longing and the separation from your loved ones and your family .
therefore , we don 't find the moral , emotional , psychological and political space to distance ourselves from the reality of social responsibility .
oddly enough , an artist such as myself finds herself also in the position of being the voice , the speaker of my people , even if i have , indeed , no access to my own country .
also , people like myself , we 're fighting two battles on different grounds .
we 're being critical of the west , the perception of the west about our identity -- about the image that is constructed about us , about our women , about our politics , about our religion .
we are there to take pride and insist on respect .
and at the same time , we 're fighting another battle .
that is our regime , our government -- our atrocious government , [ that ] has done every crime in order to stay in power .
our artists are at risk .
we are in a position of danger .
we pose a threat to the order of the government .
but ironically , this situation has empowered all of us , because we are considered , as artists , central to the cultural , political , social discourse in iran .
we are there to inspire , to provoke , to mobilize , to bring hope to our people .
we are the reporters of our people , and are communicators to the outside world .
art is our weapon .
culture is a form of resistance .
i envy sometimes the artists of the west for their freedom of expression . for the fact that they can distance themselves from the question of politics . from the fact that they are only serving one audience , mainly the western culture .
but also , i worry about the west , because often in this country , in this western world that we have , culture risks being a form of entertainment .
our people depend on our artists , and culture is beyond communication .
my journey as an artist started from a very , very personal place .
i did not start to make social commentary about my country .
the first one that you see in front of you is actually when i first returned to iran after being separated for a good 12 years .
it was after the islamic revolution of 1979 .
while i was absent from iran , the islamic revolution had descended on iran and had entirely transformed the country from persian to the islamic culture .
i came mainly to be reunited with my family and to reconnect in a way that i found my place in the society .
but instead , i found a country that was totally ideological and that i didn 't recognize anymore .
more so , i became very interested , as i was facing my own personal dilemmas and questions , i became immersed in the study of the islamic revolution -- how , indeed , it had incredibly transformed the lives of iranian women .
i found the subject of iranian women immensely interesting , in the way the women of iran , historically , seemed to embody the political transformation .
so in a way , by studying a woman , you can read the structure and the ideology of the country .
so i made a group of work that at once faced my own personal questions in life , and yet it brought my work into a larger discourse -- the subject of martyrdom , the question of those who willingly stand in that intersection of love of god , faith , but violence and crime and cruelty .
for me , this became incredibly important .
and yet , i had an unusual position toward this .
i was an outsider who had come back to iran to find my place , but i was not in a position to be critical of the government or the ideology of the islamic revolution .
this changed slowly as i found my voice and i discovered things that i didn 't know i would discover .
so my art became slightly more critical .
my knife became a little sharper .
and i fell into a life in exile .
i am a nomadic artist .
i work in morocco , in turkey , in mexico .
i go everywhere to make believe it 's iran .
now i am making films .
last year , i finished a film called " women without men . "
" women without men " returns to history , but another part of our iranian history .
it goes to 1953 when american cia exercised a coup and removed a democratically elected leader , dr. mossadegh .
the book is written by an iranian woman , shahrnush parsipur .
it 's a magical realist novel .
this book is banned , and she spent five years in prison .
my obsession with this book , and the reason i made this into a film , is because it at once was addressing the question of being a female -- traditionally , historically in iran -- and the question of four women who are all looking for an idea of change , freedom and democracy -- while the country of iran , equally , as if another character , also struggled for an idea of freedom and democracy and independence from the foreign interventions .
i made this film because i felt it 's important for it to speak to the westerners about our history as a country .
that all of you seem to remember iran after the islamic revolution .
that iran was once a secular society , and we had democracy , and this democracy was stolen from us by the american government , by the british government .
this film also speaks to the iranian people in asking them to return to their history and look at themselves before they were so islamicized -- in the way we looked , in the way we played music , in the way we had intellectual life .
and most of all , in the way that we fought for democracy .
these are some of the shots actually from my film .
these are some of the images of the coup .
and we made this film in casablanca , recreating all the shots .
this film tried to find a balance between telling a political story , but also a feminine story .
being a visual artist , indeed , i am foremost interested to make art -- to make art that transcends politics , religion , the question of feminism , and become an important , timeless , universal work of art .
the challenge i have is how to do that . how to tell a political story but an allegorical story . how to move you with your emotions , but also make your mind work .
these are some of the images and the characters of the film .
now comes the green movement -- the summer of 2009 , as my film is released -- the uprising begins in the streets of tehran .
what is unbelievably ironic is the period that we tried to depict in the film , the cry for democracy and social justice , repeats itself now again in tehran .
the green movement significantly inspired the world .
it brought a lot of attention to all those iranians who stand for basic human rights and struggle for democracy .
what was most significant for me was , once again , the presence of the women .
they 're absolutely inspirational for me .
if in the islamic revolution , the images of the woman portrayed were submissive and didn 't have a voice , now we saw a new idea of feminism in the streets of tehran -- women who were educated , forward thinking , non-traditional , sexually open , fearless and seriously feminist .
these women and those young men united iranians across the world , inside and outside .
i then discovered why i take so much inspiration from iranian women .
that , under all circumstances , they have pushed the boundary .
they have confronted the authority .
they have broken every rule in the smallest and the biggest way .
and once again , they proved themselves .
i stand here to say that iranian women have found a new voice , and their voice is giving me my voice .
and it 's a great honor to be an iranian woman and an iranian artist , even if i have to operate in the west only for now .
thank you so much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / salman _ khan _ let _ s _ use _ video _ to _ reinvent _ education.html
salman khan talks about how and why he created the remarkable khan academy , a carefully structured series of educational videos offering complete curricula in math and , now , other subjects . he shows the power of interactive exercises , and calls for teachers to consider flipping the traditional classroom script -- give students video lectures to watch at home , and do " homework " in the classroom with the teacher available to help .
talks
1090
salman khan : let 's use video to reinvent education
the khan academy is most known for its collection of videos , so before i go any further , let me show you a little bit of a montage .
salman khan : so the hypotenuse is now going to be five .
this animal 's fossils are only found in this area of south america -- a nice clean band here -- and this part of africa .
we can integrate over the surface , and the notation usually is a capital sigma .
national assembly : they create the committee of public safety , which sounds like a very nice committee .
notice , this is an aldehyde , and it 's an alcohol .
start differentiating into effector and memory cells .
a galaxy . hey , there 's another galaxy .
oh look , there 's another galaxy .
and for dollars , is their 30 million , plus the 20 million dollars from the american manufacturer .
if this does not blow your mind , then you have no emotion .
sk : we now have on the order of 2,200 videos covering everything from basic arithmetic all the way to vector calculus and some of the stuff you saw there .
we have a million students a month using the site , watching on the order of 100 to 200,000 videos a day .
but what we 're going to talk about in this is how we 're going to the next level .
but before i do that , i want to talk a little bit about really just how i got started .
and some of you all might know , about five years ago i was an analyst at a hedge fund ,
and i was in boston , and i was tutoring my cousins in new orleans , remotely .
and i started putting the first youtube videos up just a supplement for my cousins -- something that might give them a refresher or something .
and as soon as i put those first youtube videos up , something interesting happened -- actually a bunch of interesting things happened .
the first was the feedback from my cousins .
they told me that they preferred me on youtube than in person .
and once you get over the backhanded nature of that , there was actually something very profound there .
they were saying that they preferred the automated version of their cousin to their cousin .
at first , it 's very unintuitive , but when you actually think about it from their point of view , it makes a ton of sense .
you have this situation where now they can pause and repeat their cousin , without feeling like they 're wasting my time .
if they have to review something that they should have learned a couple of weeks ago , or maybe a couple of years ago , they don 't have to be embarrassed and ask their cousin .
they can just watch those videos . if they 're bored , they can go ahead .
they can watch it at their own time , at their own pace .
and probably the least appreciated aspect of this is the notion that the very first time , the very first time that you 're trying to get your brain around a new concept , the very last thing you need is another human being saying , " do you understand this ? " and that 's what was happening with the interaction with my cousins before ,
and now they can just do it in the intimacy of their own room .
the other thing that happened is -- i put them on youtube just -- i saw no reason to make it private , so i let other people watch it ,
and then people started stumbling on it ,
and i started getting some comments and some letters and all sorts of feedback from random people from around the world .
and these are just a few .
this is actually from one of the original calculus videos .
and someone wrote just on youtube -- it was a youtube comment : " first time i smiled doing a derivative . "
and let 's pause here .
this person did a derivative and then they smiled .
and then in a response to that same comment -- this is on the thread .
you can go on youtube and look at these comments -- someone else wrote : " same thing here .
i actually got a natural high and a good mood for the entire day . since i remember seeing all of this matrix text in class , and here i 'm all like , ' i know kung fu . ' " and we get a lot of feedback all along those lines .
this clearly was helping people .
but then , as the viewership kept growing and kept growing , i started getting letters from people , and it was starting to become clear that it was actually more than just a nice-to-have .
this is just an excerpt from one of those letters .
" my 12 year-old son has autism and has had a terrible time with math .
we have tried everything , viewed everything , bought everything .
we stumbled on your video on decimals and it got through .
then we went on to the dreaded fractions . again , he got it .
we could not believe it .
he is so excited . " and so you can imagine , here i was an analyst at a hedge fund . it was very strange for me to do something of social value .
but i was excited , so i kept going .
and then a few other things started to dawn on me .
that , not only would it help my cousins right now , or these people who are sending letters , but that this content will never go old , that it could help their kids or their grandkids .
if isaac newton had done youtube videos on calculus , i wouldn 't have to .
assuming he was good . we don 't know .
the other thing that happened -- and even at this point , i said , " okay , maybe it 's a good supplement .
it 's good for motivated students .
it 's good for maybe home schoolers . " but i didn 't think it would be something that would somehow penetrate the classroom .
but then i started getting letters from teachers .
and the teachers would write , saying , " we 've used your videos to flip the classroom .
you 've given the lectures , so now what we do ... " -- and this could happen in every classroom in america tomorrow -- " ... what i do is i assign the lectures for homework ,
and what used to be homework , i now have the students doing in the classroom . " and i want to pause here for -- i want to pause here for a second , because there 's a couple of interesting things .
one , when those teachers are doing that , there 's the obvious benefit -- the benefit that now their students can enjoy the videos in the way that my cousins did .
they can pause , repeat at their own pace , at their own time .
but the more interesting thing is -- and this is the unintuitive thing when you talk about technology in the classroom -- by removing the one-size-fits-all lecture from the classroom and letting students have a self-paced lecture at home , and then when you go to the classroom , letting them do work , having the teacher walk around , having the peers actually be able to interact with each other , these teachers have used technology to humanize the classroom .
they took a fundamentally dehumanizing experience -- 30 kids with their fingers on their lips , not allowed to interact with each other .
a teacher , no matter how good , has to give this one-size-fits-all lecture to 30 students -- blank faces , slightly antagonistic -- and now it 's a human experience .
now they 're actually interacting with each other .
so once the khan academy -- i quit my job and we turned into a real organization -- we 're a not-for-profit -- the question is , how do we take this to the next level ?
how do we take what those teachers are doing to their natural conclusion ?
and so what i 'm showing you over here , these are actual exercises that i started writing for my cousins .
the ones i started were much more primitive .
this is a more competent version of it .
but the paradigm here is , we 'll generate as many questions as you need until you get that concept , until you get 10 in a row .
and the khan academy videos are there .
you get hints , the actual steps for that problem , if you don 't know how to do it .
but the paradigm here , it seems like a very simple thing : 10 in a row , you move on .
but it 's fundamentally different than what 's happening in classrooms right now .
in a traditional classroom , you have a couple of homework , homework , lecture , homework , lecture , and then you have a snapshot exam .
and that exam , whether you get a 70 percent , an 80 percent , a 90 percent or a 95 percent , the class moves on to the next topic .
and even that 95 percent student , what was the five percent they didn 't know ?
maybe they didn 't know what happens when you raise something to the zero power .
and then you go build on that in the next concept .
that 's analogous to imagine learning to ride a bicycle , and maybe i give you a lecture ahead of time , and i give you that bicycle for two weeks .
and then i come back after two weeks , and i say , " well , let 's see . you 're having trouble taking left turns .
you can 't quite stop .
you 're an 80 percent bicyclist . " so i put a big c stamp on your forehead and then i say , " here 's a unicycle . " but as ridiculous as that sounds , that 's exactly what 's happening in our classrooms right now .
and the idea is you fast forward and good students start failing algebra all of a sudden and start failing calculus all of a sudden , despite being smart , despite having good teachers ,
and it 's usually because they have these swiss cheese gaps that kept building throughout their foundation .
so our model is learn math the way you 'd learn anything , like the way you would learn a bicycle .
stay on that bicycle . fall off that bicycle .
do it as long as necessary until you have mastery .
the traditional model , it penalizes you for experimentation and failure , but it does not expect mastery .
we encourage you to experiment . we encourage you to failure .
but we do expect mastery .
this is just another one of the modules .
this is trigonometry .
this is shifting and reflecting functions .
and they all fit together .
we have about 90 of these right now .
and you can go to the site right now . it 's all free . not trying to sell anything .
but the general idea is that they all fit into this knowledge map .
that top node right there , that 's literally single digit addition .
it 's like one plus one is equal to two .
and the paradigm is , once you get 10 in a row on that , it keeps forwarding you to more and more advanced modules .
so if you keep further down the knowledge map , we 're getting into more advanced arithmetic .
further down , you start getting into pre-algebra and early algebra .
further down , you start getting into algebra one , algebra two , a little bit of precalculus .
and the idea is , from this we can actually teach everything -- well , everything that can be taught in this type of a framework .
so you can imagine -- and this is what we are working on -- is from this knowledge map you have logic , you have computer programming , you have grammar , you have genetics , all based off of that core of , if you know this and that , now you 're ready for this next concept .
now that can work well for an individual learner , and i encourage , one , for you to do it with your kids , but i also encourage everyone in the audience to do it yourself .
it 'll change what happens at the dinner table .
but what we want to do is to use the natural conclusion of the flipping of the classroom that those early teachers had emailed me about .
and so what i 'm showing you here , this is actually data from a pilot in the los altos school district , where they took two fifth grade classes and two seventh grade classes and completely gutted their old math curriculum .
these kids aren 't using textbooks , they 're not getting one-size-fits-all lectures .
they 're doing khan academy , they 're doing that software , for roughly half of their math class .
and i want to make it clear , we don 't view this as the complete math education .
what it does is -- and this is what 's happening in los altos -- it frees up time .
this is the blocking and tackling , making sure you know how to move through a system of equations , and it frees up time for the simulations , for the games , for the mechanics , for the robot building , for the estimating how high that hill is based on its shadow .
and so the paradigm is the teacher walks in every day , every kid works at their own pace -- and this is actually a live dashboard from los altos school district -- and they look at this dashboard .
every row is a student .
every column is one of those concepts .
green means the student 's already proficient .
blue means they 're working on it -- no need to worry .
red means they 're stuck .
and what the teacher does is literally just say , " let me intervene on the red kids . " or even better , " let me get one of the green kids who are already proficient in that concept to be the first line of attack and actually tutor their peer . " now i come from a very data-centric reality , so we don 't want that teacher to even go and intervene and have to ask the kid awkward questions : " oh , what do you not understand ? " or " what do you do understand ? " and all of the rest .
so our paradigm is to really arm the teachers with as much data as possible -- really data that , in almost any other field , is expected , if you 're in finance or marketing or manufacturing --
and so the teachers can actually diagnose what 's wrong with the students so they can make their interaction as productive as possible .
so now the teachers know exactly what the students have been up to , how long they have been spending every day , what videos have they been watching , when did they pause the videos , what did they stop watching , what exercises are they using , what have they been focused on ?
the outer circle shows what exercises they were focused on .
the inner circle shows the videos they 're focused on .
and the data gets pretty granular so you can see the exact problems that the student got right or wrong .
red is wrong , blue is right .
the leftmost question is the first question that the student attempted .
they watched the video right over there .
and then you can see , eventually , they were able to get 10 in a row .
it 's almost like you can see them learning over those last 10 problems .
they also got faster .
the height is how long it took them .
so when you talk about self-paced learning , it makes sense for everyone -- in education-speak , differentiated learning -- but it 's kind of crazy when you see it in a classroom .
because every time we 've done this , in every classroom we 've done , over and over again , if you go five days into it , there 's a group of kids who 've raced ahead and there 's a group of kids who are a little bit slower .
and in a traditional model , if you did a snapshot assessment , you say , " these are the gifted kids , these are the slow kids .
maybe they should be tracked differently .
maybe we should put them in different classes . " but when you let every student work at their own pace -- and we see it over and over and over again -- you see students who took a little bit [ of ] extra time on one concept or the other , but once they get through that concept , they just race ahead .
and so the same kids that you thought were slow six weeks ago , you now would think are gifted .
and we 're seeing it over and over and over again .
and it makes you really wonder how much all of the labels maybe a lot of us have benefited from were really just due to a coincidence of time .
now as valuable as something like this is in a district like los altos , our goal is to use technology to humanize , not just in los altos , but on a global scale , what 's happening in education .
and actually , that kind of brings an interesting point .
a lot of the effort in humanizing the classroom is focused on student-to-teacher ratios .
in our mind , the relevant metric is student-to-valuable-human-time- with-the-teacher ratio .
so in a traditional model , most of the teacher 's time is spent doing lectures and grading and whatnot .
maybe five percent of their time is actually sitting next to students and actually working with them .
now 100 percent of their time is .
so once again , using technology , not just flipping the classroom , you 're humanizing the classroom , i 'd argue , by a factor of five or 10 .
and as valuable as that is in los altos , imagine what that does to the adult learner who 's embarrassed to go back and learn stuff that they should have before , before going back to college .
imagine what it does to a street kid in calcutta who has to help his family during the day , and that 's the reason why he or she can 't go to school .
now they can spend two hours a day and remediate , or get up to speed and not feel embarrassed about what they do or don 't know .
now imagine what happens where -- we talked about the peers teaching each other inside of a classroom .
but this is all one system .
there 's no reason why you can 't have that peer-to-peer tutoring beyond that one classroom .
imagine what happens if that student in calcutta all of a sudden can tutor your son , or your son can tutor that kid in calcutta ?
and i think what you 'll see emerging is this notion of a global one-world classroom .
and that 's essentially what we 're trying to build .
thank you .
bill gates : i 've seen some things you 're doing in the system that have to do with motivation and feedback -- energy points , merit badges .
tell me what you 're thinking there .
sk : oh yeah . no , we have an awesome team working on it .
and i have to make it clear , it 's not just me anymore .
i 'm still doing all the videos , but we have a rockstar team doing the software .
yeah , we 've put a bunch of game mechanics in there where you get these badges , we 're going to start having leader boards by area , and you get points .
it 's actually been pretty interesting .
just the wording of the badging or how many points you get for doing something , we see on a system-wide basis , like tens of thousands of fifth graders or sixth graders going one direction or another , depending what badge you give them .
bg : and the collaboration you 're doing with los altos , how did that come about ?
sk : los altos , it was kind of crazy .
once again , i didn 't expect it to be used in classrooms .
someone from their board came and said , " what would you do if you had carte blanche in a classroom ? " and i said , " well , i would just , every student work at their own pace on something like this and we 'd give a dashboard . " and they said , " oh , this is kind of radical . we have to think about it . " and me and the rest of the team were like , " they 're never going to want to do this . " but literally the next day they were like , " can you start in two weeks ? " bg : so fifth grade math is where that 's going on right now ?
sk : it 's two fifth grade classes and two seventh grade classes .
and they 're doing it at the district level .
i think what they 're excited about is they can now follow these kids .
it 's not an only-in-school thing .
we 've even , on christmas , we saw some of the kids were doing it .
and we can track everything .
so they can actually track them as they go through the entire district .
through the summers , as they go from one teacher to the next , you have this continuity of data that even at the district level they can see .
bg : so some of those views we saw were for the teacher to go in and track actually what 's going on with those kids .
so you 're getting feedback on those teacher views to see what they think they mean ?
sk : oh yeah . most of those were specs by the teachers .
we made some of those for students so they could see their data , but we have a very tight design loop with the teachers themselves .
and they 're literally saying , " hey , this is nice , but ... " like that focus graph , a lot of the teachers said , " i have a feeling that a lot of the kids are jumping around and not focusing on one topic . " so we made that focus diagram .
so it 's all been teacher-driven .
it 's been pretty crazy .
bg : is this ready for prime time ?
do you think a lot of classes next school year should try this thing out ?
sk : yeah , it 's ready .
we 've got a million people on the site already , so we can handle a few more .
no , no reason why it really can 't happen in every classroom in america tomorrow .
bg : and the vision of the tutoring thing .
the idea there is , if i 'm confused about a topic , somehow right in the user interface i 'd find people who are volunteering , maybe see their reputation , and i could schedule and connect up with those people ?
sk : absolutely . and this is something that i recommend everyone in this audience to do .
those dashboards the teachers have , you can go log in right now and you can essentially become a coach for your kids , or nephews , or cousins , or maybe some kids at the boys and girls club .
and yeah , you can start becoming a mentor , a tutor , really immediately .
but yeah , it 's all there .
bg : well , it 's amazing .
i think you just got a glimpse of the future of education .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / oliver _ sacks _ what _ hallucination _ reveals _ about _ our _ minds.html
neurologist and author oliver sacks brings our attention to charles bonnet syndrome -- when visually impaired people experience lucid hallucinations . he describes the experiences of his patients in heartwarming detail and walks us through the biology of this under-reported phenomenon .
biology , brain , medicine , mind , neurology , psychology
637
oliver sacks : what hallucination reveals about our minds
we see with the eyes ,
but we see with the brain as well .
and seeing with the brain is often called imagination .
and we are familiar with the landscapes of our own imagination , our inscapes . we 've lived with them all our lives .
but there are also hallucinations as well ,
and hallucinations are completely different .
they don 't seem to be of our creation .
they don 't seem to be under our control .
they seem to come from the outside , and to mimic perception .
so i am going to be talking about hallucinations ,
and a particular sort of visual hallucination which i see among my patients .
a few months ago , i got a phone call from a nursing home where i work .
they told me that one of their residents , an old lady in her 90s , was seeing things ,
and they wondered if she 'd gone bonkers
or , because she was an old lady , whether she 'd had a stroke , or whether she had alzheimer 's .
and so they asked me if i would come and see rosalie , the old lady .
i went in to see her .
it was evident straight away that she was perfectly sane and lucid and of good intelligence ,
but she 'd been very startled and very bewildered , because she 'd been seeing things .
and she told me -- the nurses hadn 't mentioned this -- that she was blind , that she had been completely blind from macular degeneration for five years .
but now , for the last few days , she 'd been seeing things .
so i said , " what sort of things ? "
and she said , " people in eastern dress , in drapes , walking up and down stairs .
a man who turns towards me and smiles .
but he has huge teeth on one side of his mouth .
animals too .
i see a white building . it 's snowing , a soft snow .
i see this horse with a harness , dragging the snow away .
then , one night , the scene changes .
i see cats and dogs walking towards me . they come to a certain point and then stop .
then it changes again .
i see a lot of children . they are walking up and down stairs .
they wear bright colors , rose and blue , like eastern dress . "
sometimes , she said , before the people come on , she may hallucinate pink and blue squares on the floor , which seem to go up to the ceiling .
i said , " is this like a dream ? "
and she said , " no , it 's not like a dream . it 's like a movie . "
she said , " it 's got color . it 's got motion .
but it 's completely silent , like a silent movie . "
and she said that it 's a rather boring movie .
she said , " all these people with eastern dress , walking up and down , very repetitive , very limited . "
and she has a sense of humor .
she knew it was a hallucination .
but she was frightened . she 'd lived 95 years and she 'd never had a hallucination before .
she said that the hallucinations were unrelated to anything she was thinking or feeling or doing ,
that they seemed to come on by themselves , or disappear .
she had no control over them .
she said she didn 't recognize any of the people or places in the hallucinations .
and none of the people or the animals , well , they all seemed oblivious of her .
and she didn 't know what was going on .
she wondered if she was going mad or losing her mind .
well , i examined her carefully .
she was a bright old lady ,
perfectly sane . she had no medical problems .
she wasn 't on any medications which could produce hallucinations .
but she was blind .
and i then said to her , " i think i know what you have . "
i said , " there is a special form of visual hallucination which may go with deteriorating vision or blindness . this was originally described , " i said , " right back in the 18th century , by a man called charles bonnet .
and you have charles bonnet syndrome .
there is nothing wrong with your brain . there is nothing wrong with your mind .
you have charles bonnet syndrome . "
and she was very relieved at this , that there was nothing seriously the matter , and also rather curious .
she said , " who is this charles bonnet ? "
she said , " did he have them himself ? "
and she said , " tell all the nurses that i have charles bonnet syndrome . "
" i 'm not crazy . i 'm not demented . i have charles bonnet syndrome . "
well , so i did tell the nurses .
now this , for me , is a common situation .
i work in old-age homes , largely .
i see a lot of elderly people who are hearing impaired or visually impaired .
about 10 percent of the hearing impaired people get musical hallucinations .
and about 10 percent of the visually impaired people get visual hallucinations .
you don 't have to be completely blind , only sufficiently impaired .
now with the original description in the 18th century , charles bonnet did not have them .
his grandfather had these hallucinations .
his grandfather was a magistrate , an elderly man .
he 'd had cataract surgery .
his vision was pretty poor .
and in 1759 , he described to his grandson various things he was seeing .
the first thing he said was he saw a handkerchief in midair .
it was a large blue handkerchief with four orange circles .
and he knew it was a hallucination .
you don 't have handkerchiefs in midair .
and then he saw a big wheel in midair .
but sometimes he wasn 't sure whether he was hallucinating or not ,
because the hallucinations would fit in the context of the visions .
so on one occasion , when his granddaughters were visiting them , he said , " and who are these handsome young men with you ? "
and they said , " alas , grandpapa , there are no handsome young men . "
and then the handsome young men disappeared .
it 's typical of these hallucinations that they may come in a flash and disappear in a flash .
they don 't usually fade in and out .
they are rather sudden , and they change suddenly .
charles lullin , the grandfather , saw hundreds of different figures , different landscapes of all sorts .
on one occasion , he saw a man in a bathrobe smoking a pipe , and realized it was himself .
that was the only figure he recognized .
on one occasion when he was walking in the streets of paris , he saw -- this was real -- a scaffolding .
but when he got back home , he saw a miniature of the scaffolding six inches high , on his study table .
this repetition of perception is sometimes called palinopsia .
with him and with rosalie , what seems to be going on -- and rosalie said , " what 's going on ? " -- and i said that as you lose vision , as the visual parts of the brain are no longer getting any input , they become hyperactive and excitable ,
and they start to fire spontaneously .
and you start to see things .
the things you see can be very complicated indeed .
with another patient of mine , who , also had some vision , the vision she had could be disturbing .
on one occasion , she said she saw a man in a striped shirt in a restaurant .
and he turned around . and then he divided into six figures in striped shirts , who started walking towards her .
and then the six figures came together again , like a concertina .
once , when she was driving , or rather , her husband was driving , the road divided into four
and she felt herself going simultaneously up four roads .
she had very mobile hallucinations as well .
a lot of them had to do with a car .
sometimes she would see a teenage boy sitting on the hood of the car .
he was very tenacious and he moved rather gracefully when the car turned .
and then when they came to a stop , the boy would do a sudden vertical takeoff , 100 foot in the air , and then disappear .
another patient of mine had a different sort of hallucination . this was a woman who didn 't have trouble with her eyes , but the visual parts of her brain ,
a little tumor in the occipital cortex .
and , above all , she would see cartoons .
these cartoons would be transparent and would cover half the visual field , like a screen .
and especially she saw cartoons of kermit the frog .
now , i don 't watch sesame street ,
but she made a point of saying , " why kermit ? " she said , " kermit the frog means nothing to me .
you know , i was wondering about freudian determinants .
why kermit ?
kermit the frog means nothing to me . "
she didn 't mind the cartoons too much . but what did disturb her was she got very persistent images or hallucinations of faces and as with rosalie , the faces were often deformed , with very large teeth or very large eyes .
and these frightened her .
well , what is going on with these people ?
as a physician , i have to try and define what 's going on , and to reassure people ,
especially to reassure them that they 're not going insane .
something like 10 percent , as i said , of visually impaired people get these .
but no more than one percent of the people acknowledge them ,
because they are afraid they will be seen as insane or something .
and if they do mention them to their own doctors they may be misdiagnosed .
in particular , the notion is that if you see things or hear things , you 're going mad ,
but the psychotic hallucinations are quite different .
psychotic hallucinations , whether they are visual or vocal , they address you . they accuse you .
they seduce you . they humiliate you .
they jeer at you .
you interact with them .
there is none of this quality of being addressed with these charles bonnet hallucinations .
there is a film . you 're seeing a film which has nothing to do with you ,
or that 's how people think about it .
there is also a rare thing called temporal lobe epilepsy ,
and sometimes , if one has this , one may feel oneself transported back to a time and place in the past .
you 're at a particular road junction .
you smell chestnuts roasting .
you hear the traffic . all the senses are involved .
and you 're waiting for your girl .
and it 's that tuesday evening back in 1982 .
and the temporal lobe hallucinations are all-sense hallucinations , full of feeling , full of familiarity , located in space and time , coherent , dramatic .
the charles bonnet ones are quite different .
so in the charles bonnet hallucinations , you have all sorts of levels , from the geometrical hallucinations -- the pink and blue squares the woman had -- up to quite elaborate hallucinations with figures and especially faces .
faces , and sometimes deformed faces , are the single commonest thing in these hallucinations .
and one of the second commonest is cartoons .
so , what is going on ?
fascinatingly , in the last few years , it 's been possible to do functional brain imagery , to do fmri on people as they are hallucinating .
and in fact , to find that different parts of the visual brain are activated as they are hallucinating .
when people have these simple geometrical hallucinations , the primary visual cortex is activated .
this is the part of the brain which perceives edges and patterns .
you don 't form images with your primary visual cortex .
when images are formed , a higher part of the visual cortex is involved in the temporal lobe .
and in particular , one area of the temporal lobe is called the fusiform gyrus .
and it 's known that if people have damage in the fusiform gyrus , they maybe lose the ability to recognize faces .
but if there is an abnormal activity in the fusiform gyrus , they may hallucinate faces ,
and this is exactly what you find in some of these people .
there is an area in the anterior part of this gyrus where teeth and eyes are represented ,
and that part of the gyrus is activated when people get the deformed hallucinations .
there is another part of the brain which is especially activated when one sees cartoons .
it 's activated when one recognizes cartoons , when one draws cartoons , and when one hallucinates them .
it 's very interesting that that should be specific .
there are other parts of the brain which are specifically involved with the recognition and hallucination of buildings and landscapes .
around 1970 , it was found that there were not only parts of the brain , but particular cells .
" face cells " were discovered around 1970 .
and now we know that there are hundreds of other sorts of cells , which can be very , very specific .
so you may not only have " car " cells , you may have " aston martin " cells .
i saw an aston martin this morning .
i had to bring it in .
and now it 's in there somewhere .
now , at this level , in what 's called the inferotemporal cortex , there are only visual images , or figments or fragments .
it 's only at higher levels that the other senses join in and there are connections with memory and emotion .
and in the charles bonnet syndrome , you don 't go to those higher levels .
you 're in these levels of inferior visual cortex where you have thousands and tens of thousands and millions of images , or figments , or fragmentary figments , all neurally encoded in particular cells or small clusters of cells .
normally these are all part of the integrated stream of perception , or imagination ,
and one is not conscious of them .
it is only if one is visually impaired or blind that the process is interrupted .
and instead of getting normal perception , you 're getting an anarchic , convulsive stimulation , or release , of all of these visual cells in the inferotemporal cortex .
so , suddenly you see a face . suddenly you see a car .
suddenly this , and suddenly that .
the mind does its best to organize and to give some sort of coherence to this ,
but not terribly successfully .
when these were first described , it was thought that they could be interpreted like dreams .
but in fact people say , " i don 't recognize the people . i can 't form any associations . "
" kermit means nothing to me . "
you don 't get anywhere thinking of them as dreams .
well , i 've more or less said what i wanted .
i think i just want to recapitulate and say this is common .
think of the number of blind people .
there must be hundreds of thousands of blind people who have these hallucinations , but are too scared to mention them .
so this sort of thing needs to be brought into notice , for patients , for doctors , for the public .
finally , i think they are infinitely interesting and valuable , for giving one some insight as to how the brain works .
charles bonnet said , 250 years ago -- he wondered how , thinking these hallucinations , how , as he put it , the theater of the mind could be generated by the machinery of the brain .
now , 250 years later , i think we 're beginning to glimpse how this is done .
thanks very much .
chris anderson : that was superb . thank you so much .
you speak about these things with so much insight and empathy for your patients .
have you yourself experienced any of the syndromes you write about ?
oliver sacks : i was afraid you 'd ask that .
well , yeah , a lot of them .
and actually i 'm a little visually impaired myself .
i 'm blind in one eye , and not terribly good in the other .
and i see the geometrical hallucinations .
but they stop there .
ca : and they don 't disturb you ?
because you understand what 's doing it , it doesn 't make you worried ?
os : well they don 't disturb me any more than my tinnitus ,
which i ignore .
they occasionally interest me ,
and i have many pictures of them in my notebooks .
i 've gone and had an fmri myself , to see how my visual cortex is taking over .
and when i see all these hexagons and complex things , which i also have , in visual migraine , i wonder whether everyone sees things like this , and whether things like cave art or ornamental art may have been derived from them a bit .
ca : that was an utterly , utterly fascinating talk .
thank you so much for sharing .
os : thank you . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / edith _ widder _ the _ weird _ and _ wonderful _ world _ of _ bioluminescence.html
in the deep , dark ocean , many sea creatures make their own light for hunting , mating and self-defense . bioluminescence expert edith widder was one of the first to film this glimmering world . at ted2011 , she brings some of her glowing friends onstage , and shows more astonishing footage of glowing undersea life .
biology , exploration , ocean , oceans , photography , science
1149
edith widder : the weird , wonderful world of bioluminescence
so i want to take you on a trip to an alien world .
and it 's not a trip that requires light-years of travel , but it 's to a place where it 's defined by light .
so it 's a little-appreciated fact that most of the animals in our ocean make light .
i 've spent most of my career studying this phenomenon called bioluminescence .
i study it because i think understanding it is critical to understanding life in the ocean where most bioluminescence occurs .
i also use it as a tool for visualizing and tracking pollution .
but mostly i 'm entranced by it .
since my my first dive in a deep-diving submersible , when i went down and turned out the lights and saw the fireworks displays , i 've been a bioluminescence junky .
but i would come back from those dives and try to share the experience with words , and they were totally inadequate to the task .
i needed some way to share the experience directly .
and the first time i figured out that way was in this little single-person submersible called deep rover .
this next video clip , you 're going to see how we stimulated the bioluminescence .
and the first thing you 're going to see is a transect screen that is about a meter across .
narrator : in front of the sub , a mess screen will come into contact with the soft-bodied creatures of the deep sea .
with the sub 's lights switched off , it is possible to see their bioluminescence -- the light produced when they collide with the mesh .
this is the first time it has ever been recorded .
edith widder : so i recorded that with an intensified video camera that has about the sensitivity of the fully dark-adapted human eye .
which means that really is what you would see if you took a dive in a submersible .
but just to try to prove that fact to you , i 've brought along some bioluminescent plankton in what is undoubtedly a foolhardy attempt at a live demonstration .
so , if we could have the lights down and have it as dark in here as possible , i have a flask that has bioluminescent plankton in it .
and you 'll note there 's no light coming from them right now , either because they 're dead -- or because i need to stir them up in some way for you to see what bioluminescence really looks like .
oops . sorry .
i spend most of my time working in the dark ; i 'm used to that .
okay .
so that light was made by a bioluminescent dinoflagellate , a single-celled alga .
so why would a single-celled alga need to be able to produce light ?
well , it uses it to defend itself from its predators .
the flash is like a scream for help .
it 's what 's known as a bioluminescent burglar alarm ,
and just like the alarm on your car or your house , it 's meant to cast unwanted attention onto the intruder , thereby either leading to his capture or scaring him away .
there 's a lot of animals that use this trick , for example this black dragonfish .
it 's got a light organ under its eye .
it 's got a chin barbel .
it 's got a lot of other light organs you can 't see , but you 'll see in here in a minute .
so we had to chase this in the submersible for quite sometime , because the top speed of this fish is one knot , which was the top speed of the submersible .
but it was worth it , because we caught it in a special capture device , brought it up into the lab on the ship , and then everything on this fish lights up .
it 's unbelievable .
the light organs under the eyes are flashing .
that chin barbel is flashing .
it 's got light organs on its belly that are flashing , fin lights .
it 's a scream for help ; it 's meant to attract attention .
it 's phenomenal .
and you normally don 't get to see this because we 've exhausted the luminescence when we bring them up in nets .
there 's other ways you can defend yourself with light .
for example , this shrimp releases its bioluminescent chemicals into the water just the way a squid or an octopus would release an ink cloud .
this blinds or distracts the predator .
this little squid is called the fire shooter because of its ability to do this .
now it may look like a tasty morsel , or a pig 's head with wings -- but if it 's attacked , it puts out a barrage of light -- in fact , a barrage of photon torpedoes .
i just barely got the lights out in time for you to be able to see those gobs of light hitting the transect screen and then just glowing .
it 's phenomenal .
so there 's a lot of animals in the open ocean -- most of them that make light .
and we have a pretty good idea , for most of them , why .
they use it for finding food , for attracting mates , for defending against predators .
but when you get down to the bottom of the ocean , that 's where things get really strange .
and some of these animals are probably inspiration for the things you saw in " avatar , "
but you don 't have to travel to pandora to see them .
they 're things like this .
this is a golden coral , a bush .
it grows very slowly .
in fact , it 's thought that some of these are as much as 3,000 years old , which is one reason that bottom trawling should not be allowed .
the other reason is this amazing bush glows .
so if you brush up against it , any place you brushed against it , you get this twinkling blue-green light that 's just breathtaking .
and you see things like this .
this looks like something out of a dr. seuss book -- just all manner of creatures all over this thing .
and these are flytrap anemones .
now if you poke it , it pulls in its tentacles .
but if you keep poking it , it starts to produce light .
and it actually ends up looking like a galaxy .
it produces these strings of light , presumably as some form of defense .
there are starfish that can make light .
and there are brittle stars that produce bands of light that dance along their arms .
this looks like a plant , but it 's actually an animal .
and it anchors itself in the sand by blowing up a balloon on the end of its stock .
so it can actually hold itself in very strong currents , as you see here .
but if we collect it very gently , and we bring it up into the lab and just squeeze it at the base of the stock , it produces this light that propagates from stem to the plume , changing color as it goes , from green to blue .
colorization and sound effects added for you viewing pleasure .
but we have no idea why it does that .
here 's another one . this is also a sea pen .
it 's got a brittle star hitching a ride .
it 's a green saber of light .
and like the one you just saw , it can produce these as bands of light .
so if i squeeze the base , the bands go from base to tip .
if i squeeze the tip , they go from tip to base .
so what do you think happens if you squeeze it in the middle ?
i 'd be very interested in your theories about what that 's about .
so there 's a language of light in the deep ocean , and we 're just beginning to understand it ,
and one way we 're going about that is we 're imitating a lot of these displays .
this is an optical lure that i 've used .
we call it the electronic jellyfish .
it 's just 16 blue leds that we can program to do different types of displays .
and we view it with a camera system i developed called eye-in-the-sea that uses far red light that 's invisible to most animals , so it 's unobtrusive .
so i just want to show you some of the responses we 've elicited from animals in the deep sea .
so the camera 's black and white .
it 's not high-resolution .
and what you 're seeing here is a bait box with a bunch of -- like the cockroaches of the ocean -- there are isopods all over it .
and right in the front is the electronic jellyfish .
and when it starts flashing , it 's just going to be one of the leds that 's flashing very fast . but as soon as it starts to flash -- and it 's going to look big , because it blooms on the camera -- i want you to look right here .
there 's something small there that responds . we 're talking to something .
it looks like a little of string pearls basically -- in fact , three strings of pearls .
and this was very consistent .
this was in the bahamas at about 2,000 feet .
we basically have a chat room going on here , because once it gets started , everybody 's talking .
and i think this is actually a shrimp that 's releasing its bioluminescent chemicals into the water .
but the cool thing is , we 're talking to it .
we don 't know what we 're saying .
personally , i think it 's something sexy .
and then finally , i want to show you some responses that we recorded with the world 's first deep-sea webcam , which we had installed in monterey canyon last year .
we 've only just begun to analyze all of this data .
this is going to be a glowing source first , which is like bioluminescent bacteria .
and it is an optical cue that there 's carrion on the bottom of the ocean .
so this scavenger comes in , which is a giant sixgill shark .
and i can 't claim for sure that the optical source brought it in , because there 's bait right there .
but if it had been following the odor plume , it would have come in from the other direction .
and it does actually seem to be trying to eat the electronic jellyfish .
that 's a 12-foot-long giant sixgill shark .
okay , so this next one is from the webcam , and it 's going to be this pinwheel display .
and this is a burglar alarm .
and that was a humboldt squid , a juvenile humboldt squid , about three feet long .
this is at 3,000 feet in monterey canyon .
but if it 's a burglar alarm , you wouldn 't expect it to attack the jellyfish directly .
it 's supposed to be attacking what 's attacking the jellyfish .
but we did see a bunch of responses like this .
this guy is a little more contemplative .
" hey , wait a minute .
there 's supposed to be something else there . "
he 's thinking about it .
but he 's persistent .
he keeps coming back .
and then he goes away for a few seconds to think about it some more , and thinks , " maybe if i come in from a different angle . "
nope .
so we are starting to get a handle on this , but only just the beginnings .
we need more eyes on the process .
so if any of you ever get a chance to take a dive in a submersible , by all means , climb in and take the plunge .
this is something that should be on everybody 's bucket list , because we live on an ocean planet .
more than 90 percent , 99 percent , of the living space on our planet is ocean .
it 's a magical place filled with breathtaking light shows and bizarre and wondrous creatures , alien life forms that you don 't have to travel to another planet to see .
but if you do take the plunge , please remember to turn out the lights .
but i warn you , it 's addictive .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / e _ o _ wilson _ advice _ to _ young _ scientists.html
" the world needs you , badly , " begins celebrated biologist e.o. wilson in his letter to a young scientist . previewing his upcoming book , he gives advice collected from a lifetime of experience -- reminding us that wonder and creativity are the center of the scientific life . < em > < / em >
ted prize , education , failure , math , science , storytelling , student , success , youth
1485
e.o. wilson : advice to young scientists
what i 'm going to do is to just give a few notes , and this is from a book i 'm preparing called " letters to a young scientist . " i 'd thought it 'd be appropriate to present it , on the basis that i have had extensive experience in teaching , counseling scientists across a broad array of fields .
and you might like to hear some of the principles that i 've developed in doing that teaching and counseling . so let me begin by urging you , particularly you on the youngsters ' side , on this path you 've chosen , to go as far as you can .
the world needs you , badly . humanity is now fully into the techno-scientific age .
there is going to be no turning back . although varying among disciplines -- say , astrophysics , molecular genetics , the immunology , the microbiology , the public health , to the new area of the human body as a symbiont , to public health , environmental science .
knowledge in medical science and science overall is doubling every 15 to 20 years . technology is increasing at a comparable rate . between them , the two already pervade , as most of you here seated realize , every dimension of human life . so swift is the velocity of the techno-scientific revolution , so startling in its countless twists and turns , that no one can predict its outcome even a decade from the present moment .
there will come a time , of course , when the exponential growth of discovery and knowledge , which actually began in the 1600s , has to peak and level off , but that 's not going to matter to you .
the revolution is going to continue for at least several more decades .
it 'll render the human condition radically different from what it is today .
traditional fields of study are going to continue to grow and in so doing , inevitably they will meet and create new disciplines .
in time , all of science will come to be a continuum of description , an explanation of networks , of principles and laws .
that 's why you need not just be training in one specialty , but also acquire breadth in other fields , related to and even distant from your own initial choice .
keep your eyes lifted and your head turning .
the search for knowledge is in our genes . it was put there by our distant ancestors who spread across the world , and it 's never going to be quenched . to understand and use it sanely , as a part of the civilization yet to evolve requires a vastly larger population of scientifically trained people like you .
in education , medicine , law , diplomacy , government , business and the media that exist today .
our political leaders need at least a modest degree of scientific literacy , which most badly lack today -- no applause , please .
it will be better for all if they prepare before entering office rather than learning on the job .
therefore you will do well to act on the side , no matter how far into the laboratory during the span of your career .
i 'll now proceed quickly , and before else , to a subject that is both a vital asset and a potential barrier to a scientific career .
if you are a bit short in mathematical skills ,
don 't worry . many of the most successful scientists at work today are mathematically semi-literate .
a metaphor will serve here : where elite mathematicians and statisticians and theorists often serve as architects in the expanding realm of science , the remaining large majority of basic applied scientists , including a large portion of those who could be said to be of the first rank , are the ones who map the terrain , they scout the frontiers , they cut the pathways , they raise the buildings along the way .
some may have considered me foolhardy , but it 's been my habit to brush aside the fear of mathematics when talking to candidate scientists . during 41 years of teaching biology at harvard , i watched sadly as bright students turned away from the possibility of a scientific career or even from taking non-required courses in science because they were afraid of failure .
these math-phobes deprive science and medicine of immeasurable amounts of badly needed talent . here 's how to relax your anxieties , if you have them : understand that mathematics is a language ruled like other verbal languages , or like verbal language generally , by its own grammar and system of logic .
any person with average quantitative intelligence who learns to read and write mathematics at an elementary level will , as in verbal language , have little difficulty picking up most of the fundamentals if they choose to master the mathspeak of most disciplines of science .
the longer you wait to become at least semi-literate the harder the language of mathematics will be to master , just as again in any verbal language , but it can be done at any age .
i speak as an authority on that subject , because i 'm an extreme case .
i didn 't take algebra until my freshman year at the university of alabama .
they didn 't teach it before then .
i finally got around to calculus as a 32-year-old tenured professor at harvard , where i sat uncomfortably in classes with undergraduate students , little more than half my age .
a couple of them were students in a course i was giving on evolutionary biology .
i swallowed my pride , and i learned calculus .
i found out that in science and all its applications , what is crucial is not that technical ability , but it is imagination in all of its applications .
the ability to form concepts with images of entities and processes pictured by intuition . i found out that advances in science rarely come upstream from an ability to stand at a blackboard and conjure images from unfolding mathematical propositions and equations .
they are instead the products of downstream imagination leading to hard work , during which mathematical reasoning may or may not prove to be relevant .
ideas emerge when a part of the real or imagined world is studied for its own sake .
of foremost importance is a thorough , well-organized knowledge of all that is known of the relevant entities and processes that might be involved in that domain you propose to enter .
when something new is discovered , it 's logical then that one of the follow-up steps is to find the mathematical and statistical methods to move its analysis forward .
if that step proves too difficult for the person or team that made the discovery , a mathematician can then be added by them as a collaborator .
consider the following principle , which i will modestly call wilson 's principle number one : it is far easier for scientists including medical researchers , to require needed collaboration in mathematics and statistics than it is for mathematicians and statisticians to find scientists able to make use of their equations .
it is important in choosing the direction to take in science to find the subject at your level of competence that interests you deeply , and focus on that .
keep in mind , then , wilson 's second principle : for every scientist , whether researcher , technician , teacher , manager or businessman , working at any level of mathematical competence , there exists a discipline in science or medicine for which that level is enough to achieve excellence .
now i 'm going to offer quickly several more principles that will be useful in organizing your education and career , or if you 're teaching , how you might enhance your own teaching and counseling of young scientists .
in selecting a subject in which to conduct original research , or to develop world-class expertise , take a part of the chosen discipline that is sparsely inhabited .
judge opportunity by how few other students and researchers are on hand .
this is not to de-emphasize the essential requirement of broad training , or the value of apprenticing yourself in ongoing research to programs of high quality .
it is important also to acquire older mentors within these successful programs , and to make friends and colleagues of your age for mutual support .
but through it all , look for a way to break out , to find a field and subject not yet popular .
we have seen this demonstrated already in the talks preceding mine .
there is the quickest way advances are likely to occur , as measured in discoveries per investigator per year .
you may have heard the military dictum for the gathering of armies : march to the sound of the guns .
in science , the exact opposite is the case : march away from the sound of the guns .
so wilson 's principle number three : march away from the sound of the guns .
observe from a distance , but do not join the fray .
make a fray of your own .
once you have settled on a specialty , and the profession you can love , and you 've secured opportunity , your potential to succeed will be greatly enhanced if you study it enough to become an expert .
there are thousands of professionally delimited subjects sprinkled through physics and chemistry to biology and medicine . and on then into the social sciences , where it is possible in short time to acquire the status of an authority .
when the subject is still very thinly populated , you can with diligence and hard work become the world authority . the world needs this kind of expertise , and it rewards the kind of people willing to acquire it .
the existing information and what you self-discover may at first seem skimpy and difficult to connect to other bodies of knowledge . well , if that 's the case , good . why hard instead of easy ?
the answer deserves to be stated as principle number four .
in the attempt to make scientific discoveries , every problem is an opportunity , and the more difficult the problem , the greater will be the importance of its solution .
now this brings me to a basic categorization in the way scientific discoveries are made .
scientists , pure mathematicians among them , follow one or the other of two pathways : first through early discoveries , a problem is identified and a solution is sought .
the problem may be relatively small ; for example , where exactly in a cruise ship does the norovirus begin to spread ?
or larger , what 's the role of dark matter in the expansion of the universe ?
as the answer is sought , other phenomena are typically discovered and other questions are asked .
this first of the two strategies is like a hunter , exploring a forest in search of a particular quarry , who finds other quarries along the way .
the second strategy of research is to study a subject broadly searching for unknown phenomena or patterns of known phenomena like a hunter in what we call " the naturalist 's trance , " the researcher of mind is open to anything interesting , any quarry worth taking .
the search is not for the solution of the problem , but for problems themselves worth solving .
the two strategies of research , original research , can be stated as follows , in the final principle i 'm going to offer you : for every problem in a given discipline of science , there exists a species or entity or phenomenon ideal for its solution .
and conversely , for every species or other entity or phenomenon , there exist important problems for the solution of which , those particular objects of research are ideally suited .
find out what they are .
you 'll find your own way to discover , to learn , to teach .
the decades ahead will see dramatic advances in disease prevention , general health , the quality of life . all of humanity depends on the knowledge and practice of the medicine and the science behind it you will master .
you have chosen a calling that will come in steps to give you satisfaction , at its conclusion , of a life well lived .
and i thank you for having me here tonight .
oh , thank you .
thank you very much .
i salute you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / drew _ berry _ animations _ of _ unseeable _ biology.html
we have no ways to directly observe molecules and what they do -- drew berry wants to change that . at tedxsydney he shows his scientifically accurate animations that help researchers see unseeable processes within our own cells .
arts , biology , science , visualizations
1322
drew berry : animations of unseeable biology
what i 'm going to show you are the astonishing molecular machines that create the living fabric of your body .
now molecules are really , really tiny .
and by tiny , i mean really .
they 're smaller than a wavelength of light , so we have no way to directly observe them .
but through science , we do have a fairly good idea of what 's going on down at the molecular scale .
so what we can do is actually tell you about the molecules , but we don 't really have a direct way of showing you the molecules .
one way around this is to draw pictures .
and this idea is actually nothing new .
scientists have always created pictures as part of their thinking and discovery process .
they draw pictures of what they 're observing with their eyes , through technology like telescopes and microscopes , and also what they 're thinking about in their minds .
i picked two well-known examples , because they 're very well-known for expressing science through art .
and i start with galileo who used the world 's first telescope to look at the moon .
and he transformed our understanding of the moon .
the perception in the 17th century was the moon was a perfect heavenly sphere .
but what galileo saw was a rocky , barren world , which he expressed through his watercolor painting .
another scientist with very big ideas , the superstar of biology , is charles darwin .
and with this famous entry in his notebook , he begins in the top left-hand corner with , " i think , " and then sketches out the first tree of life , which is his perception of how all the species , all living things on earth , are connected through evolutionary history -- the origin of species through natural selection and divergence from an ancestral population .
even as a scientist , i used to go to lectures by molecular biologists and find them completely incomprehensible , with all the fancy technical language and jargon that they would use in describing their work , until i encountered the artworks of david goodsell , who is a molecular biologist at the scripps institute .
and his pictures , everything 's accurate and it 's all to scale .
and his work illuminated for me what the molecular world inside us is like .
so this is a transection through blood .
in the top left-hand corner , you 've got this yellow-green area .
the yellow-green area is the fluids of blood , which is mostly water , but it 's also antibodies , sugars , hormones , that kind of thing .
and the red region is a slice into a red blood cell .
and those red molecules are hemoglobin .
they are actually red ; that 's what gives blood its color .
and hemoglobin acts as a molecular sponge to soak up the oxygen in your lungs and then carry it to other parts of the body .
i was very much inspired by this image many years ago , and i wondered whether we could use computer graphics to represent the molecular world .
what would it look like ?
and that 's how i really began . so let 's begin .
this is dna in its classic double helix form .
and it 's from x-ray crystallography , so it 's an accurate model of dna .
if we unwind the double helix and unzip the two strands , you see these things that look like teeth .
those are the letters of genetic code , the 25,000 genes you 've got written in your dna .
this is what they typically talk about -- the genetic code -- this is what they 're talking about .
but i want to talk about a different aspect of dna science , and that is the physical nature of dna .
it 's these two strands that run in opposite directions for reasons i can 't go into right now .
but they physically run in opposite directions , which creates a number of complications for your living cells , as you 're about to see , most particularly when dna is being copied .
and so what i 'm about to show you is an accurate representation of the actual dna replication machine that 's occurring right now inside your body , at least 2002 biology .
so dna 's entering the production line from the left-hand side , and it hits this collection , these miniature biochemical machines , that are pulling apart the dna strand and making an exact copy .
so dna comes in and hits this blue , doughnut-shaped structure and it 's ripped apart into its two strands .
one strand can be copied directly , and you can see these things spooling off to the bottom there .
but things aren 't so simple for the other strand because it must be copied backwards .
so it 's thrown out repeatedly in these loops and copied one section at a time , creating two new dna molecules .
now you have billions of this machine right now working away inside you , copying your dna with exquisite fidelity .
it 's an accurate representation , and it 's pretty much at the correct speed for what is occurring inside you .
i 've left out error correction and a bunch of other things .
this was work from a number of years ago .
thank you .
this is work from a number of years ago , but what i 'll show you next is updated science , it 's updated technology .
so again , we begin with dna .
and it 's jiggling and wiggling there because of the surrounding soup of molecules , which i 've stripped away so you can see something .
dna is about two nanometers across , which is really quite tiny .
but in each one of your cells , each strand of dna is about 30 to 40 million nanometers long .
so to keep the dna organized and regulate access to the genetic code , it 's wrapped around these purple proteins -- or i 've labeled them purple here .
it 's packaged up and bundled up .
all this field of view is a single strand of dna .
this huge package of dna is called a chromosome .
and we 'll come back to chromosomes in a minute .
we 're pulling out , we 're zooming out , out through a nuclear pore , which is the gateway to this compartment that holds all the dna called the nucleus .
all of this field of view is about a semester 's worth of biology , and i 've got seven minutes .
so we 're not going to be able to do that today ?
no , i 'm being told , " no . "
this is the way a living cell looks down a light microscope .
and it 's been filmed under time-lapse , which is why you can see it moving .
the nuclear envelope breaks down .
these sausage-shaped things are the chromosomes , and we 'll focus on them .
they go through this very striking motion that is focused on these little red spots .
when the cell feels it 's ready to go , it rips apart the chromosome .
one set of dna goes to one side , the other side gets the other set of dna -- identical copies of dna .
and then the cell splits down the middle .
and again , you have billions of cells undergoing this process right now inside of you .
now we 're going to rewind and just focus on the chromosomes and look at its structure and describe it .
so again , here we are at that equator moment .
the chromosomes line up .
and if we isolate just one chromosome , we 're going to pull it out and have a look at its structure .
so this is one of the biggest molecular structures that you have , at least as far as we 've discovered so far inside of us .
so this is a single chromosome .
and you have two strands of dna in each chromosome .
one is bundled up into one sausage .
the other strand is bundled up into the other sausage .
these things that look like whiskers that are sticking out from either side are the dynamic scaffolding of the cell .
they 're called mircrotubules . that name 's not important .
but what we 're going to focus on is this red region -- i 've labeled it red here -- and it 's the interface between the dynamic scaffolding and the chromosomes .
it is obviously central to the movement of the chromosomes .
we have no idea really as to how it 's achieving that movement .
we 've been studying this thing they call the kinetochore for over a hundred years with intense study , and we 're still just beginning to discover what it 's all about .
it is made up of about 200 different types of proteins , thousands of proteins in total .
it is a signal broadcasting system .
it broadcasts through chemical signals telling the rest of the cell when it 's ready , when it feels that everything is aligned and ready to go for the separation of the chromosomes .
it is able to couple onto the growing and shrinking microtubules .
it 's involved with the growing of the microtubules , and it 's able to transiently couple onto them .
it 's also an attention sensing system .
it 's able to feel when the cell is ready , when the chromosome is correctly positioned .
it 's turning green here because it feels that everything is just right .
and you 'll see , there 's this one little last bit that 's still remaining red .
and it 's walked away down the microtubules .
that is the signal broadcasting system sending out the stop signal .
and it 's walked away . i mean , it 's that mechanical .
it 's molecular clockwork .
this is how you work at the molecular scale .
so with a little bit of molecular eye candy , we 've got kinesins , which are the orange ones .
they 're little molecular courier molecules walking one way .
and here are the dynein . they 're carrying that broadcasting system .
and they 've got their long legs so they can step around obstacles and so on .
so again , this is all derived accurately from the science .
the problem is we can 't show it to you any other way .
exploring at the frontier of science , at the frontier of human understanding , is mind-blowing .
discovering this stuff is certainly a pleasurable incentive to work in science .
but most medical researchers --
discovering the stuff is simply steps along the path to the big goals , which are to eradicate disease , to eliminate the suffering and the misery that disease causes and to lift people out of poverty .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / howard _ rheingold _ on _ collaboration.html
howard rheingold talks about the coming world of collaboration , participatory media and collective action -- and how wikipedia is really an outgrowth of our natural human instinct to work as a group .
business , collaboration , communication , community , cooperation , culture , global issues , humanity , wikipedia
216
howard rheingold : the new power of collaboration
i 'm here to enlist you in helping reshape the story about how humans and other critters get things done . here is the old story -- we 've already heard a little bit about it :
biology is war in which only the fiercest survive ;
businesses and nations succeed only by defeating , destroying and dominating competition ;
politics is about your side winning at all costs .
but i think we can see the very beginnings of a new story beginning to emerge .
it 's a narrative spread across a number of different disciplines , in which cooperation , collective action and complex interdependencies play a more important role .
and the central , but not all-important , role of competition and survival of the fittest shrinks just a little bit to make room .
i started thinking about the relationship between communication , media and collective action when i wrote " smart mobs , " and i found that when i finished the book , i kept thinking about it .
in fact , if you look back , human communication media and the ways in which we organize socially have been co-evolving for quite a long time .
humans have lived for much , much longer than the approximately 10,000 years of settled agricultural civilization
in small family groups . nomadic hunters bring down rabbits , gathering food .
the form of wealth in those days was enough food to stay alive .
but at some point , they banded together to hunt bigger game .
and we don 't know exactly how they did this ,
although they must have solved some collective action problems ;
it only makes sense that you can 't hunt mastodons while you 're fighting with the other groups .
and again , we have no way of knowing , but it 's clear that a new form of wealth must have emerged .
more protein than a hunter 's family could eat before it rotted .
so that raised a social question that i believe must have driven new social forms .
did the people who ate that mastodon meat owe something to the hunters and their families ?
and if so , how did they make arrangements ?
again , we can 't know , but we can be pretty sure that some form of symbolic communication must have been involved .
of course , with agriculture came the first big civilizations , the first cities built of mud and brick , the first empires .
and it was the administers of these empires who began hiring people to keep track of the wheat and sheep and wine that was owed and the taxes that was owed on them by making marks ; marks on clay in that time .
not too much longer after that , the alphabet was invented .
and this powerful tool was really reserved , for thousands of years , for the elite administrators who kept track of accounts for the empires .
and then another communication technology enabled new media :
the printing press came along , and within decades , millions of people became literate .
and from literate populations , new forms of collective action emerged in the spheres of knowledge , religion and politics .
we saw scientific revolutions , the protestant reformation , constitutional democracies possible where they had not been possible before .
not created by the printing press , but enabled by the collective action that emerges from literacy .
and again , new forms of wealth emerged .
now , commerce is ancient . markets are as old as the crossroads .
but capitalism , as we know it , is only a few hundred years old , enabled by cooperative arrangements and technologies , such as the joint-stock ownership company , shared liability insurance , double-entry bookkeeping .
now of course , the enabling technologies are based on the internet ,
and in the many-to-many era , every desktop is now a printing press , a broadcasting station , a community or a marketplace .
evolution is speeding up .
more recently , that power is untethering and leaping off the desktops ,
and very , very quickly , we 're going to see a significant proportion , if not the majority of the human race , walking around holding , carrying or wearing supercomputers linked at speeds greater than what we consider to be broadband today .
now , when i started looking into collective action , the considerable literature on it is based on what sociologists call " social dilemmas . "
and there are a couple of mythic narratives of social dilemmas .
i 'm going to talk briefly about two of them : the prisoner 's dilemma and the tragedy of the commons .
now , when i talked about this with kevin kelly , he assured me that everybody in this audience pretty much knows the details of the prisoner 's dilemma ,
so i 'm just going to go over that very , very quickly .
if you have more questions about it , ask kevin kelly later .
the prisoner 's dilemma is actually a story that 's overlaid on a mathematical matrix that came out of the game theory in the early years of thinking about nuclear war : two players who couldn 't trust each other .
let me just say that every unsecured transaction is a good example of a prisoner 's dilemma .
person with the goods , person with the money , because they can 't trust each other , are not going to exchange .
neither one wants to be the first one or they 're going to get the sucker 's payoff ,
but both lose , of course , because they don 't get what they want .
if they could only agree , if they could only turn a prisoner 's dilemma into a different payoff matrix called an assurance game , they could proceed .
twenty years ago , robert axelrod used the prisoner 's dilemma as a probe of the biological question : if we are here because our ancestors were such fierce competitors , how does cooperation exist at all ?
he started a computer tournament for people to submit prisoner 's dilemma strategies and discovered , much to his surprise , that a very , very simple strategy won --
it won the first tournament , and even after everyone knew it won , it won the second tournament -- that 's known as tit for tat .
another economic game that may not be as well known as the prisoner 's dilemma is the ultimatum game ,
and it 's also a very interesting probe of our assumptions about the way people make economic transactions .
here 's how the game is played : there are two players ;
they 've never played the game before ,
they will not play the game again , they don 't know each other ,
and they are , in fact , in separate rooms .
first player is offered a hundred dollars and is asked to propose a split : 50 / 50 , 90 / 10 ,
whatever that player wants to propose . the second player either accepts the split -- both players are paid and the game is over --
or rejects the split -- neither player is paid and the game is over .
now , the fundamental basis of neoclassical economics would tell you it 's irrational to reject a dollar because someone you don 't know in another room is going to get 99 .
yet in thousands of trials with american and european and japanese students , a significant percentage would reject any offer that 's not close to 50 / 50 .
and although they were screened and didn 't know about the game and had never played the game before , proposers seemed to innately know this because the average proposal was surprisingly close to 50 / 50 .
now , the interesting part comes in more recently when anthropologists began taking this game to other cultures and discovered , to their surprise , that slash-and-burn agriculturalists in the amazon or nomadic pastoralists in central asia or a dozen different cultures -- each had radically different ideas of what is fair .
which suggests that instead of there being an innate sense of fairness , that somehow the basis of our economic transactions can be influenced by our social institutions , whether we know that or not .
the other major narrative of social dilemmas is the tragedy of the commons .
garrett hardin used it to talk about overpopulation in the late 1960s .
he used the example of a common grazing area in which each person by simply maximizing their own flock led to overgrazing and the depletion of the resource .
he had the rather gloomy conclusion that humans will inevitably despoil any common pool resource in which people cannot be restrained from using it .
now , elinor ostrom , a political scientist , in 1990 asked the interesting question that any good scientist should ask ,
which is : is it really true that humans will always despoil commons ?
so she went out and looked at what data she could find .
she looked at thousands of cases of humans sharing watersheds , forestry resources , fisheries , and discovered that yes , in case after case , humans destroyed the commons that they depended on .
but she also found many instances in which people escaped the prisoner 's dilemma ;
in fact , the tragedy of the commons is a multiplayer prisoner 's dilemma .
and she said that people are only prisoners if they consider themselves to be .
they escape by creating institutions for collective action .
and she discovered , i think most interestingly , that among those institutions that worked , there were a number of common design
principles , and those principles seem to be missing from those institutions that don 't work .
i 'm moving very quickly over a number of disciplines . in biology , the notions of symbiosis , group selection , evolutionary psychology are contested , to be sure .
but there is really no longer any major debate over the fact that cooperative arrangements have moved from a peripheral role to a central role in biology , from the level of the cell to the level of the ecology .
and again , our notions of individuals as economic beings have been overturned .
rational self-interest is not always the dominating factor .
in fact , people will act to punish cheaters , even at a cost to themselves .
and most recently , neurophysiological measures have shown that people who punish cheaters in economic games show activity in the reward centers of their brain .
which led one scientist to declare that altruistic punishment may be the glue that holds societies together .
now , i 've been talking about how new forms of communication and new media in the past have helped create new economic forms .
commerce is ancient . markets are very old . capitalism is fairly recent ;
socialism emerged as a reaction to that .
and yet we see very little talk about how the next form may be emerging .
jim surowiecki briefly mentioned yochai benkler 's paper about open source , pointing to a new form of production : peer-to-peer production .
i simply want you to keep in mind that if in the past , new forms of cooperation enabled by new technologies create new forms of wealth , we may be moving into yet another economic form that is significantly different from previous ones .
very briefly , let 's look at some businesses . ibm , as you know , hp , sun -- some of the most fierce competitors in the it world are open sourcing their software , are providing portfolios of patents for the commons .
eli lilly -- in , again , the fiercely competitive pharmaceutical world -- has created a market for solutions for pharmaceutical problems .
toyota , instead of treating its suppliers as a marketplace , treats them as a network and trains them to produce better , even though they are also training them to produce better for their competitors .
now none of these companies are doing this out of altruism ;
they 're doing it because they 're learning that a certain kind of sharing is in their self-interest .
open source production has shown us that world-class software , like linux and mozilla , can be created with neither the bureaucratic structure of the firm nor the incentives of the marketplace as we 've known them .
google enriches itself by enriching thousands of bloggers through adsense .
amazon has opened its application programming interface to 60,000 developers , countless amazon shops .
they 're enriching others , not out of altruism but as a way of enriching themselves .
ebay solved the prisoner 's dilemma and created a market where none would have existed by creating a feedback mechanism that turns a prisoner 's dilemma game into an assurance game .
instead of , " neither of us can trust each other , so we have to make suboptimal moves , " it 's , " you prove to me that you are trustworthy and i will cooperate . "
wikipedia has used thousands of volunteers to create a free encyclopedia with a million and a half articles in 200 languages in just a couple of years .
we 've seen that thinkcycle has enabled ngos in developing countries to put up problems to be solved by design students around the world , including something that 's being used for tsunami relief right now :
it 's a mechanism for rehydrating cholera victims that 's so simple to use it , illiterates can be trained to use it .
bittorrent turns every downloader into an uploader , making the system more efficient the more it is used .
millions of people have contributed their desktop computers when they 're not using them to link together through the internet into supercomputing collectives that help solve the protein folding problem for medical researchers --
that 's folding @ home at stanford --
to crack codes , to search for life in outer space .
i don 't think we know enough yet .
i don 't think we 've even begun to discover what the basic principles are ,
but i think we can begin to think about them .
and i don 't have enough time to talk about all of them ,
but think about self-interest .
this is all about self-interest that adds up to more .
in el salvador , both sides that withdrew from their civil war took moves that had been proven to mirror a prisoner 's dilemma strategy .
in the u.s. , in the philippines , in kenya , around the world , citizens have self-organized political protests and get out the vote campaigns using mobile devices and sms .
is an apollo project of cooperation possible ?
a transdisciplinary study of cooperation ?
i believe that the payoff would be very big .
i think we need to begin developing maps of this territory so that we can talk about it across disciplines .
and i am not saying that understanding cooperation and sometimes people cooperate to do bad things --
but i will remind you that a few hundred years ago , people saw their loved ones die from diseases they thought were caused by sin or foreigners or evil spirits .
descartes said we need an entire new way of thinking .
when the scientific method provided that new way of thinking and biology showed that microorganisms caused disease , suffering was alleviated .
what forms of suffering could be alleviated , what forms of wealth could be created if we knew a little bit more about cooperation ?
i don 't think that this transdisciplinary discourse is automatically going to happen ;
it 's going to require effort .
so i enlist you to help me get the cooperation project started .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / blaise _ aguera.html
in a demo that drew gasps at ted2010 , blaise aguera y arcas demos new augmented-reality mapping technology from microsoft .
design , map , technology
766
blaise aguera y arcas demos augmented-reality maps
about a year and a half ago , stephen lawler , who also gave a talk here at ted in 2007 on virtual earth , brought me over to become the architect of bing maps , which is microsoft 's online-mapping effort .
in the past two and a half , we 've been very hard at work on redefining the way maps work online .
and we really are seeing this in very different terms from the kind of mapping and direction site that one is used to .
so , the first thing that you might notice about the mapping site is just the fluidity of the zooming and the panning , which , if you 're familiar at all with seadragon , that 's where it comes from .
mapping is , of course , not just about cartography , it 's also about imagery .
so , as we zoom-in beyond a certain level this resolves into a kind of sim city-like virtual view at 45 degrees .
this can be viewed from any of the cardinal directions to show you the 3d structure of the city , all the facades .
now , we see this space , this three-dimensional environment , as being a canvas on which all sorts of applications can play out ,
and map 's directions are really just one of them .
if you click on this , you 'll see some of the ones that we 've put out , just in the past couple of months since we 've launched .
so , for example , a couple of days after the disaster in haiti , we had an earthquake map that showed before and after pictures from the sky .
this wonderful one which i don 't have time to show you is taking hyper-local blogs in real time and mapping those stories , those entries to the places that are referred to on the blogs .
it 's wonderful .
but i 'm going to show you some more candy sort of stuff .
so , we see the imagery , of course , not stopping at the sky .
these little green bubbles represent photosynths that users have made .
i 'm not going to dive into them either , but photosynths are integrated into the map .
everything that 's cased in blue is an area where we 've taken imagery on the ground as well .
and so , when you fly down -- thank you . when you fly down to the ground , and you see this kind of panoramic imagery , the first thing that you might notice is that it 's not just a picture , there 's just as much three-dimensional understanding of this environment as there is of the three-dimensional city from above , so if i click on something to get a closer view of it , then , the fact that that transition looks as it does , is a function of all of that geometry , all of that 3d understanding behind this model .
now , i 'll show you a fun app that -- we 've been working on a collaboration with our friends at flickr .
this takes flickr , georegistered imagery and uses photosynth-like processes to connect that imagery to our imagery , so -- i 'm not sure if that 's the one i actually meant to pull up , but -- but notice -- this is , of course , a popular tourist site , and there are lots of photos around here , and these photos are all taken at different times .
so this one was taken around five .
so that 's the flickr photo , that 's our imagery .
so you really see how this kind of crowd-sourced imagery is integrating , in a very deep way , into the map itself .
thank you .
there are several reasons why this is interesting and one of them , of course , is time travel .
and i 'm not going to show you some of the wonderful historic imagery in here , but there are some with horses and carriages and so on as well .
but what 's cool about this is that , not only is it augmenting this visual representation of the world with things that are coming in from users , but it also is the foundation for augmented reality , and that 's something that i 'll be showing you more of in just a moment .
now i just made a transition indoors . that 's also interesting .
ok , notice there 's now a roof above us .
we 're inside the pike place market .
and this is something that we 're able to do with a backpack camera ,
so , we 're now not only imaging in the street with this camera on tops of cars , but we 're also imaging inside .
and from here , we 're able to do the same sorts of registration , not only of still images , but also of video .
so this is something that we 're now going to try for the first time , live , and this is really , truly , very frightening .
ok .
all right , guys , are you there ?
all right . i 'm hitting it . i 'm punching play .
i 'm live . all right . there we go .
so , these are our friends in pike place market , the lab .
so they 're broadcasting this live .
ok , george , can you pan back over to the corner market ?
because i want to show points of interest .
no , no . the other way .
yeah , yeah , back to the corner , back to the corner .
i don 't want to see you guys yet .
ok , ok , back to the corner , back to the corner , back to the corner .
ok , never mind .
what i wanted to show you was these points of interest over here on top of the image because what that gives you a sense of is the way , if you 're actually on the spot ,
you can think about this -- this is taking a step in addition to augmented reality .
what the hell are you guys -- oh , sorry .
we 're doing two different --
ok , i 'm hanging up now .
we 're doing two different things here .
one of them is to take that real ...
all right , let me just take a moment and thank the team .
they 've done a fantastic job of pulling this together .
i 'm going to abandon them now and walk back outside .
and while i walk outside , i 'll just mention that here we 're using this for telepresence , but you can equally well use this on the spot , for augmented reality .
when you use it on the spot , it means that you 're able to bring all of that metadata and information about the world to you .
so here , we 're taking the extra step of also broadcasting it .
that was being broadcast , by the way , on a 4g network from the market .
all right , and now there 's one last ted talk that microsoft has given in the past several years .
and that 's curtis wong , worldwide telescope .
so , we 're going to head over to the dumpsters , where it 's traditional , after a long day at the market , to go out for a break , but also stare up at the sky .
this is the integration of worldwide telescope into our maps .
this is the current -- thank you -- this is the current time . if we scrub the time , then we can see how the sky will look at different times , and we can get all of this very detailed information about different times , different dates :
let 's move the moon a little higher in the sky , maybe change the date .
i would like to kind of zoom in on the moon .
so , this is an astronomically complete representation of the sky integrated right into the earth .
all right now , i 've overrun my time , so i 've got to stop .
thank you all very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / sophal _ ear _ escaping _ the _ khmer _ rouge.html
ted fellow sophal ear shares the compelling story of his family 's escape from cambodia under the rule of the khmer rouge . he recounts his mother 's cunning and determination to save her children .
asia , adventure , development , south asia , storytelling , third world , war
592
sophal ear : escaping the khmer rouge
i normally teach courses on how to rebuild states after war .
but today i 've got a personal story to share with you .
this is a picture of my family , my four siblings -- my mom and i -- taken in 1977 .
and we 're actually cambodians .
and this picture is taken in vietnam .
so how did a cambodian family end up in vietnam in 1977 ?
well to explain that , i 've got a short video clip to explain the khmer rouge regime during 1975 and 1979 .
video : april 17th , 1975 .
the communist khmer rouge enters phnom penh to liberate their people from the encroaching conflict in vietnam , and american bombing campaigns .
led by peasant-born pol pot , the khmer rouge evacuates people to the countryside in order to create a rural communist utopia , much like mao tse-tung 's cultural revolution in china .
the khmer rouge closes the doors to the outside world .
but after four years the grim truth seeps out .
in a country of only seven million people , one and a half million were murdered by their own leaders , their bodies piled in the mass graves of the killing fields .
sophal ear : so , notwithstanding the 1970s narration , on april 17th 1975 we lived in phnom penh .
and my parents were told by the khmer rouge to evacuate the city because of impending american bombing for three days .
and here is a picture of the khmer rouge .
they were young soldiers , typically child soldiers .
and this is very normal now , of modern day conflict ,
because they 're easy to bring into wars .
the reason that they gave about american bombing wasn 't all that far off .
i mean , from 1965 to 1973 there were more munitions that fell on cambodia than in all of world war ii japan , including the two nuclear bombs of august 1945 .
the khmer rouge didn 't believe in money .
so the equivalent of the federal reserve bank in cambodia was bombed .
but not just that , they actually banned money .
i think it 's the only precedent in which money has ever been stopped from being used .
and we know money is the root of all evil , but it didn 't actually stop evil from happening in cambodia , in fact .
my family was moved from phnom penh to pursat province .
this is a picture of what pursat looks like .
it 's actually a very pretty area of cambodia , where rice growing takes place .
and in fact they were forced to work the fields .
so my father and mother ended up in a sort of concentration camp , labor camp .
and it was at that time that my mother got word from the commune chief that the vietnamese were actually asking for their citizens to go back to vietnam .
and she spoke some vietnamese , as a child having grown up with vietnamese friends .
and she decided , despite the advice of her neighbors , that she would take the chance and claim to be vietnamese so that we could have a chance to survive ,
because at this point they 're forcing everybody to work .
and they 're giving about -- in a modern-day , caloric-restriction diet , i guess -- they 're giving porridge , with a few grains of rice .
and at about this time actually my father got very sick .
and he didn 't speak vietnamese .
so he died actually , in january 1976 .
and it made it possible , in fact , for us to take on this plan .
so the khmer rouge took us from a place called pursat to kaoh tiev ,
which is across from the border from vietnam .
and there they had a detention camp where alleged vietnamese would be tested , language tested .
and my mother 's vietnamese was so bad that to make our story more credible , she 'd given all the boys and girls new vietnamese names .
but she 'd given the boys girls ' names , and the girls boys ' names .
and it wasn 't until she met a vietnamese lady who told her this , and then tutored her for two days intensively , that she was able to go into her exam and -- you know , this was a moment of truth .
if she fails , we 're all headed to the gallows ;
if she passes , we can leave to vietnam .
and she actually , of course -- i 'm here , she passes .
and we end up in hong ngu on the vietnamese side .
and then onwards to chau doc .
and this is a picture of hong ngu , vietnam today .
a pretty idyllic place on the mekong delta .
but for us it meant freedom .
and freedom from persecution from the khmer rouge .
last year , the khmer rouge tribunal , which the u.n. is helping cambodia take on , started , and i decided that as a matter of record i should file a civil complaint with the tribunal about my father 's passing away .
and i got word last month that the complaint was officially accepted by the khmer rouge tribunal .
and it 's for me a matter of justice for history , and accountability for the future ,
because cambodia remains a pretty lawless place , at times .
five years ago my mother and i went back to chau doc .
and she was able to return to a place that for her meant freedom , but also fear , because we had just come out of cambodia .
i 'm happy , actually , today , to present her .
she 's here today with us in the audience .
thank you mother .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / inge _ missmahl _ brings _ peace _ to _ the _ minds _ of _ afghanistan.html
when jungian analyst inge missmahl visited afghanistan , she saw the inner wounds of war -- widespread despair , trauma and depression . and yet , in this county of 30 million people , there were only two dozen psychiatrists . missmahl talks about her work helping to build the country 's system of psychosocial counseling , promoting both individual and , perhaps , national healing .
brain , culture , global issues , peace , politics , potential , poverty , psychology , violence , war
968
inge missmahl brings peace to the minds of afghanistan
so i want to tell you a story -- an encouraging story -- about addressing desperation , depression and despair in afghanistan , and what we have learned from it , and how to help people to overcome traumatic experiences and how to help them to regain some confidence in the time ahead -- in the future -- and how to participate again in everyday life .
so , i am a jungian psychoanalyst , and i went to afghanistan in january 2004 , by chance , on an assignment for medica mondiale .
jung in afghanistan -- you get the picture .
afghanistan is one of the poorest countries in the world , and 70 percent of the people are illiterate .
war and malnutrition kills people together with hope .
you may know this from the media ,
but what you may not know is that the average age of the afghan people is 17 years old , which means they grow up in such an environment and -- i repeat myself -- in 30 years of war .
so this translates into ongoing violence , foreign interests , bribery , drugs , ethnic conflicts , bad health , shame , fear and cumulative traumatic experiences .
local and foreign military are supposed to build peace together with the donors and the governmental and non-governmental organizations .
and people had hope , yes , but until they realized their situation worsens every day -- either because they are being killed or because , somehow , they are poorer than eight years ago .
one figure for that : 54 percent of the children under the age of five years suffer from malnutrition .
yet , there is hope .
one day a man told me , " my future does not look brilliant , but i want to have a brilliant future for my son . "
this is a picture i took in 2005 , walking on fridays over the hills in kabul ,
and for me it 's a symbolic picture of an open future for a young generation .
so , doctors prescribe medication .
and donors are supposed to bring peace by building schools and roads .
military collect weapons , and depression stays intact .
why ?
because people don 't have tools to cope with it , to get over it .
so , soon after my arrival , i had confirmed something which i had already known ; that my instruments come from the heart of modern europe , yes .
however , what can wound us and our reaction to those wounds -- they are universal .
and the big challenge was how to understand the meaning of the symptom in this specific cultural context .
after a counseling session , a woman said to me , " because you have felt me , i can feel myself again , and i want to participate again in my family life . "
this was very important , because the family is central in afghans ' social system .
no one can survive alone .
and if people feel used , worthless and ashamed , because something horrible has happened to them , then they retreat , and they fall into social isolation , and they do not dare to tell this evil to other people or to their loved ones , because they do not want to burden them .
and very often violence is a way to cope with it .
traumatized people also easily lose control -- symptoms are hyper-arousal and memory flashbacks -- so people are in a constant fear that those horrible feelings of that traumatic event might come back unexpectedly , suddenly , and they cannot control it .
to compensate this loss of inner control , they try to control the outside , very understandably -- mostly the family -- and unfortunately , this fits very well into the traditional side , regressive side , repressive side , restrictive side of the cultural context .
so , husbands start beating wives , mothers and fathers beat their children , and afterward , they feel awful .
they did not want to do this , it just happened --
they lost control .
the desperate try to restore order and normality , and if we are not able to cut this circle of violence , it will be transferred to the next generation without a doubt .
and partly this is already happening .
so everybody needs a sense for the future ,
and the afghan sense of the future is shattered .
but let me repeat the words of the woman . " because you have felt me , i can feel myself again . "
so the key here is empathy .
somebody has to be a witness to what has happened to you .
somebody has to feel how you felt .
and somebody has to see you and listen to you .
everybody must be able to know what he or she has experienced is true ,
and this only goes with another person .
so everybody must be able to say , " this happened to me , and it did this with me , but i 'm able to live with it , to cope with it , and to learn from it .
and i want to engage myself in the bright future for my children and the children of my children , and i will not marry-off my 13 year-old daughter , " -- what happens too often in afghanistan .
so something can be done , even in such extreme environments as afghanistan .
and i started thinking about a counseling program .
but , of course , i needed help and funds .
and one evening , i was sitting next to a very nice gentleman in kabul , and he asked what i thought would be good in afghanistan .
and i explained to him quickly , i would train psycho-social counselors , i would open centers , and i explained to him why .
this man gave me his contact details at the end of the evening and said , " if you want to do this , call me . "
at that time , it was the head of caritas germany .
so , i was able to launch a three-year project with caritas germany , and we trained 30 afghan women and men , and we opened 15 counseling centers in kabul .
this was our sign -- it 's hand-painted ,
and we had 45 all over kabul .
eleven thousand people came -- more than that .
and 70 percent regained their lives .
this was a very exciting time , developing this with my wonderful afghan team .
and they are working with me up to today .
we developed a culturally-sensitive psycho-social counseling approach .
so , from 2008 up until today , a substantial change and step forward has been taking place .
the european union delegation in kabul came into this and hired me to work inside the ministry of public health , to lobby this approach --
we succeeded .
we revised the mental health component of the primary health care services by adding psycho-social care and psycho-social counselors to the system .
this means , certainly , to retrain all health staff .
but for that , we already have the training manuals , which are approved by the ministry and moreover , this approach is now part of the mental health strategy in afghanistan .
so we also have implemented it already in some selected clinics in three provinces , and you are the first to see the results .
we wanted to know if what is being done is effective .
and here you can see the patients all had symptoms of depression , moderate and severe .
and the red line is the treatment as usual -- medication with a medical doctor .
and all the symptoms stayed the same or even got worse .
and the green line is treatment with psycho-social counseling only , without medication .
and you can see the symptoms almost completely go away , and the psycho-social stress has dropped significantly , which is explicable , because you cannot take away the psycho-social stresses , but you can learn how to cope with them .
so this makes us very happy , because now we also have some evidence that this is working .
so here you see , this is a health facility in northern afghanistan , and every morning it looks like this all over .
and doctors usually have three to six minutes for the patients ,
but now this will change .
they go to the clinics , because they want to cure their immediate symptoms , and they will find somebody to talk to and discuss these issues and talk about what is burdening them and find solutions , develop their resources , learn tools to solve their family conflicts and gain some confidence in the future .
and i would like to share one short vignette .
one hazara said to his pashtun counselor , " if we were to have met some years ago , then we would have killed each other .
and now you are helping me to regain some confidence in the future . "
and another counselor said to me after the training , " you know , i never knew why i survived the killings in my village ,
but now i know , because i am part of a nucleus of a new peaceful society in afghanistan . "
so i believe this kept me running .
and this is a really emancipatory and political contribution to peace and reconciliation .
and also -- i think -- without psycho-social therapy , and without considering this in all humanitarian projects , we cannot build-up civil societies .
i thought it was an idea worth spreading , and i think it must be , can be , could be replicated elsewhere .
i thank you for your attention .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jose _ abreu _ on _ kids _ transformed _ by _ music.html
jose antonio abreu is the charismatic founder of a youth orchestra system that has transformed thousands of kids ' lives in venezuela . here he shares his amazing story and unveils a ted prize wish that could have a big impact in the us and beyond .
ted prize , ted2009 , arts , culture , education , entertainment , global issues , music , philanthropy , poverty
464
jose abreu on kids transformed by music
chris anderson : let 's now see the extraordinary speech that we captured a couple weeks ago .
jose antonio abreu : my dear friends , ladies and gentlemen , i am overjoyed today at being awarded the ted prize on behalf of all the distinguished music teachers , artists and educators from venezuela who have selflessly and loyally accompanied me for 35 years in founding , growing and developing in venezuela the national system of youth and children 's orchestras and choirs .
since i was a boy , in my early childhood , i always wanted to be a musician ,
and , thank god , i made it .
from my teachers , my family and my community , i had all the necessary support to become a musician .
all my life i 've dreamed that all venezuelan children have the same opportunity that i had .
from that desire and from my heart stemmed the idea to make music a deep and global reality for my country .
from the very first rehearsal , i saw the bright future ahead .
because the rehearsal meant a great challenge to me .
i had received a donation of 50 music stands to be used by 100 boys in that rehearsal .
when i arrived at the rehearsal , only 11 kids had shown up , and i said to myself , " do i close the program or multiply these kids ? "
i decided to face the challenge , and on that same night , i promised those 11 children i 'd turn our orchestra into one of the leading orchestras in the world .
two months ago , i remembered that promise i made , when a distinguished english critic published an article in the london times , asking who could be the winner of the orchestra world cup .
he mentioned four great world orchestras , and the fifth one was venezuela 's youth symphony orchestra .
today we can say that art in latin america is no longer a monopoly of elites and that it has become a social right , a right for all the people .
child : there is no difference here between classes , nor white or black , nor if you have money or not .
simply , if you are talented , if you have the vocation and the will to be here , you get in . you share with us and make music .
ja : during the recent tour by the simon bolivar youth orchestra of venezuela of u.s. and europe , we saw how our music moved young audiences to the bottom of their souls , how children and adolescents rushed up to the stage to receive the jackets from our musicians , how the standing ovations , sometimes 30 minutes long , seemed to last forever , and how the public , after the concert was over , went out into the street to greet our young people in triumph .
this meant not only an artistic triumph , but also a profound emotional sympathy between the public of the most advanced nations of the world and the musical youth of latin america , as seen in venezuela , giving these audiences a message of music , vitality , energy , enthusiasm and strength .
in its essence , the orchestra and the choir are much more than artistic structures . they are examples and schools of social life , because to sing and to play together means to intimately coexist toward perfection and excellence , following a strict discipline of organization and coordination in order to seek the harmonic interdependence
of voices and instruments .
that 's how they build a spirit of solidarity and fraternity among them , develop their self-esteem and foster the ethical and aesthetical values
related to the music in all its senses .
this is why music is immensely important in the awakening of sensibility , in the forging of values and in the training of youngsters
to teach other kids .
child : after all this time here , music is life . nothing else .
music is life .
ja : each teenager and child in el sistema has his own story , and they are all important and of great significance to me .
let me mention the case of edicson ruiz .
he is a boy from a parish in caracas who passionately attended to his double bass lessons at the san agustin 's junior orchestra .
with his effort , and the support of his mother , his family and his community , he became a principal member in the double bass segment of the berlin philharmonic orchestra .
we have another well-known case -- gustavo dudamel .
he started as a boy member of the children 's orchestra in his hometown , barquisimeto .
there , he grew as a violinist and as a conductor .
he became the conductor of venezuela 's junior orchestras , and today conducts the world 's greatest orchestras .
he is the musical director of los angeles philharmonic , and is still the overall leader of venezuela 's junior orchestras .
he was the conductor of the gothenburg symphony orchestra , and he 's an unbeatable example for young musicians in latin america and the world .
the structure of el sistema is based on a new and flexible managing style adapted to the features of each community and region , and today attends to 300,000 children of the lower and middle class all over venezuela .
it 's a program of social rescue and deep cultural transformation designed for the whole venezuelan society with absolutely no distinctions whatsoever , but emphasizing the vulnerable and endangered social groups .
the effect of el sistema is felt in three fundamental circles : in the personal / social circle ,
in the family circle and in the community .
in the personal / social circle , the children in the orchestras and choirs develop their intellectual and emotional side .
the music becomes a source for developing the dimensions of the human being , thus elevating the spirit and leading man to a full development of his personality .
so , the emotional and intellectual profits are huge -- the acquisition of leadership , teaching and training principles , the sense of commitment , responsibility , generosity and dedication to others , and the individual contribution to achieve great collective goals .
all this leads to the development of self-esteem and confidence .
mother teresa of calcutta insisted on something that always impressed me : the most miserable and tragic thing about poverty is not the lack of bread or roof , but the feeling of being no-one -- the feeling of not being anyone , the lack of identification , the lack of public esteem .
that 's why the child 's development in the orchestra and the choir provides him with a noble identity and makes him a role model for his family and community .
it makes him a better student at school because it inspires in him a sense of responsibility , perseverance and punctuality that will greatly help him at school .
within the family , the parents ' support is unconditional .
the child becomes a role model for both his parents , and this is very important for a poor child .
once the child discovers he is important to his family , he begins to seek new ways of improving himself and hopes better for himself and his community .
also , he hopes for social and economic improvements for his own family .
all this makes up a constructive and ascending social dynamic .
the large majority of our children belong , as i already mentioned , to the most vulnerable strata of the venezuelan population .
that encourages them to embrace new dreams , new goals , and progress in the various opportunities
that music has to offer .
finally , in the circle of the community , the orchestras prove to be the creative spaces of culture and sources of exchange and new meanings .
the spontaneity music has excludes it as a luxury item and makes it a patrimony of society .
it 's what makes a child play a violin at home , while his father works in his carpentry .
it 's what makes a little girl play the clarinet at home , while her mother does the housework .
the idea is that the families join with pride and joy in the activities of the orchestras and the choirs
that their children belong to .
the huge spiritual world that music produces in itself , which also lies within itself , ends up overcoming material poverty .
from the minute a child 's taught how to play an instrument , he 's no longer poor . he becomes a child in progress heading for a professional level , who 'll later become a full citizen .
needless to say that music is the number one prevention against prostitution , violence , bad habits , and everything degrading in the life of a child .
a few years ago , historian arnold toynbee said that the world was suffering a huge spiritual crisis .
not an economic or social crisis , but a spiritual one .
i believe that to confront such a crisis , only art and religion can give proper answers to humanity , to mankind 's deepest aspirations , and to the historic demands of our times .
education -- the synthesis of wisdom and knowledge -- is the means to strive for a more perfect , more aware , more noble and more just society .
with passion and enthusiasm we pay profound respects to ted for its outstanding humanism , the scope of its principles , for its open and generous promotion of young values .
we hope that ted can contribute in a full and fundamental way to the building of this new era in the teaching of music , in which the social , communal , spiritual and vindicatory aims of the child and the adolescent become a beacon and a goal for a vast social mission .
no longer putting society at the service of art , and much less at the services of monopolies of the elite , but instead art at the service of society , at the service of the weakest , at the service of the children , at the service of the sick , at the service of the vulnerable , and at the service of all those who cry for vindication through the spirit of their human condition and the raising up of their dignity .
ca : we are going live now to caracas . we are going live to caracas to hear maestro abreu 's ted prize wish .
ja : here is my ted prize wish : i wish that you 'll help to create and document a special training program for 50 gifted young musicians , passionate about their art and social justice , and dedicated to bringing el sistema to the united states
and other countries .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / nicholas _ negroponte _ in _ 1984 _ makes _ 5 _ predictions.html
with surprising accuracy , nicholas negroponte predicts what will happen with cd-roms , web interfaces , service kiosks , the touchscreen interface of the iphone and his own one laptop per child project .
demo , design , education , entertainment , future , interface design , media , technology
230
nicholas negroponte , in 1984 , makes 5 predictions
in this rather long sort of marathon presentation , i 've tried to break it up into three parts : the first being a whole lot of examples on how it can be a little bit more pleasurable to deal with a computer and really address the qualities of the human interface .
and these will be some simple design qualities and they will also be some qualities of , if you will , the intelligence of interaction .
then the second part will really just be examples of new technologies -- new media falling very much into that mold .
again , i will go through them as fast as possible .
and then the last one will be some examples i 've been able to collect , which i think illustrate this at least as best i can , in the world of entertainment .
people have this belief -- and i share most of it -- that we will be using the tv screens or their equivalents for electronic books of the future . but then you think , " my god ! what a terrible image you get when you look at still pictures on tv . "
well , it doesn 't have to be terrible .
and that is a slide taken from a tv set and it was pre-processed to be very sympathetic to the tv medium , and it absolutely looks beautiful .
well , what 's happened ? how did people get into this mess ?
where you are now , all of a sudden , sitting in front of personal computers and video text -- teletext systems , and somewhat horrified by what you see on the screen ?
well , you have to remember that tv was designed to be looked at eight times the distance of the diagonal .
so you get a 13-inch , 19-inch , whatever , tv ,
and then you should multiply that by eight and that 's the distance you should sit away from the tv set .
now we 've put people 18 inches in front of a tv , and all the artifacts that none of the original designers expected to be seen , all of a sudden , are staring you in the face : the shadow mask , the scan lines , all of that .
and they can be treated very easily ;
there are actually ways of getting rid of them ,
there are actually ways of just making absolutely beautiful pictures .
i 'm talking here a little bit about display technologies .
let me talk about how you might input information .
and my favorite example is always fingers . i 'm very interested in touch-sensitive displays . high-tech , high-touch . isn 't that what some of you said ?
it 's certainly a very important medium for input ,
and a lot of people think that fingers are a very low-resolution sort of stylus for inputting to a display .
in fact , they 're not : it 's really a very , very high-resolution input medium --
you have to just do it twice , you have to touch the screen and then rotate your finger slightly --
and you can move a cursor with great accuracy .
and so when you see on the market these systems that have just a few light emitting diodes on the side and are very low resolution , it 's nice that they exist because it still is better than nothing .
but it , in some sense , misses the point : namely , that fingers are a very , very high-resolution input medium .
now , what are some of the other advantages ?
well , the one advantage is that you don 't have to pick them up ,
and people don 't realize how important that is -- not having to pick up your fingers to use them .
when you think for a second of the mouse on macintosh -- and i will not criticize the mouse too much -- when you 're typing -- what you have -- you want to now put something -- first of all , you 've got to find the mouse .
you have to probably stop . maybe not come to a grinding halt , but you 've got to sort of find that mouse . then you find the mouse , and you 're going to have to wiggle it a little bit to see where the cursor is on the screen .
and then when you finally see where it is , then you 've got to move it to get the cursor over there , and then -- " bang " -- you 've got to hit a button or do whatever .
that 's four separate steps versus typing and then touching and typing and just doing it all in one motion -- or one-and-a-half , depending on how you want to count .
again , what i 'm trying to do is just illustrate the kinds of problems that i think face the designers of new computer systems and entertainment systems and educational systems from the perspective of the quality of that interface .
and another advantage , of course , of using fingers is you have 10 of them .
and we have never known how to do this technically ,
so this slide is a fake slide .
we never succeeded in using ten fingers , but there are certain things you can do , obviously , with more than one-finger input , which is rather fascinating .
what we did stumble across was something ... again , which is typical of the computer field , is when you have a bug that you can 't get rid of you turn it into a feature .
and maybe ... maybe a mouse is a new kind of bug .
but the bug in our case was in touch-sensitive displays :
we wanted to be able to draw -- you know , rub your finger across the screen to input continuous points --
and there was just too much friction created between your finger and the glass -- if glass was the substrate , which it usually is .
so we found that that actually was a feature in the sense you could build a pressure-sensitive display .
and when you touch it with your finger , you can actually , then , introduce all the forces on the face of that screen , and that actually has a certain amount of value .
let me see if i can load another disc and show you , quickly , an example .
now , imagine a screen , which is not only touch-sensitive now , it 's pressure-sensitive .
and it 's pressure-sensitive to the forces both in the plane of the screen -- x , y , and z at least in one direction ; we couldn 't figure out how to come in the other direction .
but let me get rid of the slide ,
and let 's see if this comes on .
ok . so there is the pressure-sensitive display in operation .
the person 's just , if you will , pushing on the screen to make a curve .
but this is the interesting part .
i want to stop it for a second because the movie is very badly made .
and the particular display was built about six years ago , and when we moved from one room to another room , a rather large person sat on it and it got destroyed .
so all we have is this record .
but imagine that screen having lots of objects on it
and the person has touched an object -- one of n -- like he did there , and then pushed on it .
now , imagine a program where some of those objects are physically heavy and some are light :
one is an anvil on a fuzzy rug and the other one is a ping-pong ball on a sheet of glass .
and when you touch it , you have to really push very hard to move that anvil across the screen ,
and yet you touch the ping-pong ball very lightly and it just scoots across the screen .
and what you can do -- oops , i didn 't mean to do that -- what you can do is actually feed back to the user the feeling of the physical properties .
so again , they don 't have to be weight ;
they could be a general trying to move troops , and he 's got to move an aircraft carrier versus a little boat .
in fact , they funded it for that very reason .
the whole notion , then , is one that at the interface there are physical properties in that transducer -- in this case it 's pressure and touches -- that allow you to present things to the user that you could never present before .
so it 's not simply looking at the quality or , if you will , the luxury of that interface , but it 's actually looking at the idea of presenting things that previously couldn 't be presented before .
i want to move on to another example , which is one of a different sort , where we 're trying to use computer and video disc technology now to come up with a new kind of book .
here , the idea is that you 're going to take this book , if you will , and it 's going to come alive .
you 're going to sort of breathe life into it .
we are so used to doing monologues .
filmmakers , for example , are the experts in monologue making :
you make a film and it has a well-formed beginning , middle and end ,
and in some sense the art of it is that .
and you then say , " there 's an opportunity for making conversational movies . " well , what does that mean ?
and it sort of nibbles at the core of the whole profession and all the assumptions of that medium .
so , book writing is the same thing .
what i 'll show you very quickly is a new kind of book where it is mixed now with ... all sorts of things live in there , but you have to keep a few things in mind .
one is that this book knows about itself .
each frame of the movie has information about itself .
so it knows , or at least there is computer-readable information in the medium itself . it 's just not a static movie frame .
that 's one thing . the other is that you have to realize that it is a random access medium , and you can , in fact , branch and expand and elaborate and shrink .
and here -- again , my favorite example -- is the cookbook , the " larousse gastronomique . "
and i think i use the example all too often , but it 's a great one because there is a classic ending in that little encyclopedia-style cookbook that tells you how to do something like penguin , and you get to the end of the recipe and it says , " cook until done . "
now , that would be , if you will , the top green track , which doesn 't mean too much . but you might have to elaborate for me or for somebody who isn 't an expert , and say , " cook at 380 degrees for 45 minutes . "
and then for a real beginner , you would go down even further and elaborate more -- say , " open the oven , preheat , wait for the light to go out , open the door , don 't leave it open too long , put the penguin in and shut the door ... " whatever .
and that 's a much more elaborate one than you dribble back .
that 's one kind of use of random access . and the other is where you want to explain the same thing in different ways .
if you 're in a classroom situation and somebody asks a question , the last thing you do is repeat what you just said .
you try and think of a different way of saying the same thing , or if you know the particular student and that student 's cognitive style , then you might say it in a way that you think would have a good impedance match with that student .
there are all sorts of techniques you will use -- and again , this is a different kind of branching .
so , what i will show you is ... it 's a rather boring book , but i 'm afraid sometimes you have to do boring books because your sponsors aren 't necessarily interested in fiction and entertainment . and this is a book on how to repair a transmission .
now , i don 't even know what vintage the transmission is , but let me just show you very quickly some of it , and we 'll move on .
nicholas negroponte : now , this is his table of contents .
just a picture of the transmission , and as you rub your finger across the transmission
it highlights the various parts .
narrator : when i find a chapter that i want to see , i just touch the text and the system will format pages for me to read .
the words or phrases that are lit up in red are glossary words , so i can get a different definition by just touching the word , and the definition appears , superimposed over the illustration .
nn : this is about the oil pan , or the oil filter and all that .
this is relatively important because it sets the page ... narrator : this is another example of a page with glossary words highlighted in red .
i can get a definition of these words just by touching them , and the definition will appear in the illustration corner .
i can get back to the illustration , but in this case it 's not a single frame ,
but it 's actually a movie of someone coming into the frame and doing the repair that 's described in the text .
the two-headed slider is a speed control that allows me to watch the movie at various speeds , in forward or reverse .
and the movie is displayed as a full frame movie .
i can go back to the beginning ... and play the movie at full speed .
here 's another step-by-step procedure , only in this case -- nn : okay , this movie is ... everybody 's heard of sound-sync movies --
this is text-sync movies , so as the movie plays , the text gets highlighted . we highlight the text as we go through the movie .
repairman : ... not too far out . front poles , preferably .
don 't loosen them too far . if you loosen them too far , you 'll have a big mess .
nn : i suspect that some of you might not even understand that language .
ok . i 'm at the third and last part of this , which i said i would make an attempt to at least give you some examples that may be more directly related to the world of entertainment .
and of course , good education has got to be good entertainment ,
so my first example will be drawn from a very recent experiment that we 've been doing -- in this case , in senegal -- where we have tried to use personal computers as a pedagogical medium . but not as teaching machines at all ;
the whole notion is to use this as an instrument where there is a complete reversal of roles --
the child is , if you will , the teacher and the machine is the student --
and the art of computer programming is a vehicle that sort of approximates thinking about thinking .
but teaching kids programming per se is utterly irrelevant .
and there are just a few slides i want to go through , but there 's a story i 'd like to tell . and that was when , before we did this in any developing countries -- we 're doing it , in fact , in three developing countries right now : pakistan , colombia and senegal --
we did it in some pretty rough areas of new york city .
and one child , whose name i 've forgotten , was about seven or eight years old , absolutely considered mentally handicapped -- couldn 't read , didn 't even make it in the lowest section of the school 's classes --
and was pretty much not in school , though physically there .
but did hang around the , quote , " computer room , " where there were quite a few computers , and learned this particular language called logo --
and learned it with great ease and found it a lot of fun ,
it was very interesting . and one day , by chance , some visitors from the nie came by in their double-breasted suits looking at this setup , and none of the children who were normally there , except for this one child , were there .
he was , and he said , " let me show you how this works , "
and they got an absolutely ingenuous , wonderful description of logo .
and the child was just zipping right through it , showing them all sorts of things until they asked him how to do something which he couldn 't explain
and so he flipped through the manual , found the explanation and typed the command and got it to do what they asked .
they were delighted , and by the time it was time to go see the principal , whom they 'd actually come to see -- not the computer room -- they went upstairs and they said , " this is absolutely remarkable !
that child was very articulate and showed us and even dealt with the things he couldn 't do automatically with that manual . it was just absolutely fantastic . "
the principal said , " there 's a dreadful mistake , because that child can 't read .
and you obviously have been hoodwinked or you 've talked about somebody else . "
and they all got up and they all went downstairs
and the child was still there . and they did something very intelligent : they asked the child , " can you read ? "
and the child said , " no , i can 't . "
and then they said , " but wait a minute . you just looked through that manual and you found ... " and he said , " oh , but that 's not reading . "
and so they said , " well , what 's reading then ? "
he says , " well , reading is this junk they give me in little books to read .
it 's absolutely irrelevant , and i get nothing for it .
but here , with a little bit of effort i get a lot of return . "
and it really meant something to the child .
the child read beautifully , it turned out , and was really very competent . so it actually meant something .
and that story has many other anecdotes that are similar , but wow . the key to the future of computers in education is right there ,
and it is : when does it mean something to a child ?
there is a myth , and it truly is a myth : we believe -- and i 'm sure a lot of you believe in this room -- that it is harder to read and write than it is to learn how to speak .
and it 's not , but we think speech -- " my god , little children pick it up somehow ,
and by the age of two they 're doing a mediocre job ,
and by three and four they 're speaking reasonably well .
and yet you 've got to go to school to learn how to read ,
and you have to sit in a classroom and somebody has to teach you . hence , it must be harder . " well , it 's not harder .
what the truth is is that speaking has great value to a child ;
the child can get a great deal by talking to you .
reading and writing is utterly useless .
there is no reason for a child to read and write except blind faith , and that it 's going to help you .
so what happens is you go to school and people say , " just believe me , you 're going to like it .
you 're going to like reading , " and just read and read .
on the other hand , you give a kid -- a three-year-old kid -- a computer
and they type a little command and -- poof ! -- something happens .
and all of a sudden ... you may not call that reading and writing , but a certain bit of typing and reading stuff on the screen has a huge payoff , and it 's a lot of fun .
and in fact , it 's a powerful educational instrument .
well , in senegal we found that this was the traditional classroom : 120 kids -- three per desk -- one teacher , a little bit of chalk .
this student was one of our first students , and it 's the girl on the left leaning with her chalkboard ,
and she came ... within two days -- i want to show you the program she wrote , and remember her hairstyle . and that is the program she made .
that 's what meant something to her , is doing the hair pattern , and actually did it within two days -- an hour each day -- and found it was , to her , absolutely the most meaningful piece ...
but rooted in that , little did she know how much knowledge she was acquiring about geometry and just math and logic and all the rest .
and again , i could talk for three hours about this subject .
i will come to my last example and then quit .
and my last example -- as some of my former colleagues , whom i see in the room , can imagine what it will be .
yes , it is . it 's our work -- that was a while ago , and it still is my favorite project -- of teleconferencing .
and the reason it remains a favorite project is that we were asked to do a teleconferencing system where you had the following situation : you had five people at five different sites -- they were known people --
and you had to have these people in teleconference , such that each one was utterly convinced that the other four were physically present .
now , that is sufficiently zany that we would , obviously , jump to the bait , and we did .
and the fact that we knew the people -- we had to take a page out of the history of walt disney --
we actually went so far as to build crts in the shapes of the people 's faces .
so if i wanted to call my friend peter sprague on the phone , my secretary would get his head out and bring it and set it on the desk ,
and that would be the tv used for the occasion .
and it 's uncanny : there 's no way i can explain to you the amount of eye contact you get with that physical face projected on a 3d crt of that sort .
the next thing that we had to do is to persuade them that there needed to be spatial correspondence , which is straightforward , but again , it 's something that didn 't fall naturally out of a telecommunications or computing style of thinking ;
it was a very , if you will , architectural or spatial concept . and that was to recognize that when you sit around the table , the actual location of the people becomes rather important .
and when somebody gets up , in fact , to go answer a phone or use a bathroom or something , the empty seat becomes , if you will , that person . and you point frequently to the empty seat and you say , " he or she wouldn 't agree , "
and the empty chair is that person and the spatiality is crucial .
so we said , " well , these will be on round tables and the order around the table had to be the same ,
so that at my site , i would be , if you will , real
and then at each other 's site you 'd have these plastic heads .
and the plastic heads , sometimes you want to project them . and there are a number of schemes , which i don 't want to dwell on ,
but this is the one that we finally used where we projected onto rear screen material that was molded in the face -- literally in the face of the person .
and i 'll show you one more slide , where this is actually made from something called a solid photograph and is the screen .
now , we track , on the person 's head , the head motions --
so we transmit with a video the head positions --
and so this head moves in about two axes .
so if i , all of a sudden , turn to the person to my left and start talking to that person , then at the person to my right 's site , he 'll see these two plastic heads talking to each other .
and then if that person interrupts , then those two heads may turn .
and it really is reconstructing , quite accurately , teleconferencing .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eric _ dishman _ take _ health _ care _ off _ the _ mainframe.html
at tedmed , eric dishman makes a bold argument : the us health care system is like computing circa 1959 , tethered to big , unwieldy central systems : hospitals , doctors , nursing homes . as our aging population booms , it 's imperative , he says , to create personal , networked , home-based health care for all .
business , health , health care , science , technology
797
eric dishman : take health care off the mainframe
if you think about the phone -- and intel has tested a lot of the things i 'm going to show you , over the last 10 years , in about 600 elderly households -- 300 in ireland , and 300 in portland -- trying to understand : how do we measure and monitor behavior in a medically meaningful way ?
and if you think about the phone , right , it 's something that we can use for some incredible ways to help people actually take the right medication at the right time .
we 're testing these kinds of simple sensor-network technologies in the home so that any phone that a senior is already comfortable with can help them deal with their medications .
and a lot of what they do is they pick up the phone , and it 's our system whispering to them which pill they need to take , and they fake like they 're having a conversation with a friend .
and they 're not embarrassed by a meds caddy that 's ugly , that sits on their kitchen table and says , " i 'm old . i 'm frail . "
it 's surreptitious technology that 's helping them do a simple task of taking the right pill at the right time .
now , we also do some pretty amazing things with these phones .
because that moment when you answer the phone is a cognitive test every time that you do it .
think about it , all right ? i 'm going to answer the phone three different times .
" hello ? hey . "
all right ? that 's the first time .
" hello ? uh , hey . "
" hello ? uh , who ?
oh , hey . "
all right ? very big differences between the way i answered the phone the three times .
and as we monitor phone usage by seniors over a long period of time , down to the tenths of a microsecond , that recognition moment of whether they can figure out that person on the other end is a friend and we start talking to them immediately , or they do a lot of what 's called trouble talk , where they 're like , " wait , who is this ? oh . " right ?
waiting for that recognition moment may be the best early indicator of the onset of dementia than anything that shows up clinically today .
we call these behavioral markers .
there 's lots of others . is the person going to the phone as quickly , when it rings , as they used to ?
is it a hearing problem or is it a physicality problem ?
has their voice gotten more quiet ? we 're doing a lot of work with people with alzheimer 's and particularly with parkinson 's ,
where that quiet voice that sometimes shows up with parkinson 's patients may be the best early indicator of parkinson 's five to 10 years before it shows up clinically .
but those subtle changes in your voice over a long period of time are hard for you or your spouse to notice until it becomes so extreme and your voice has become so quiet .
so , sensors are looking at that kind of voice .
when you pick up the phone , how much tremor are you having , and what is that like , and what is that trend like over a period of time ?
are you having more trouble dialing the phone than you used to ?
is it a dexterity problem ? is it the onset of arthritis ?
are you using the phone ? are you socializing less than you used to ?
and looking at that pattern . and what does that decline in social health mean , as a kind of a vital sign of the future ?
and then wow , what a radical idea , we -- except in the united states -- might be able to use this newfangled technology to actually interact with a nurse or a doctor on the other end of the line .
wow , what a great day that will be once we 're allowed to actually do those kinds of things .
so , these are what i would call behavioral markers .
and it 's the whole field that we 've been trying to work on for the last 10 years at intel .
how do you put simple disruptive technologies , and the first of five phrases that i 'm going to talk about in this talk ?
behavioral markers matter .
how do we change behavior ?
how do we measure changes in behavior in a meaningful way that 's going to help us with prevention of disease , early onset of disease , and tracking the progression of disease over a long period of time ?
now , why would intel let me spend a lot of time and money , over the last 10 years , trying to understand the needs of seniors and start thinking about these kinds of behavioral markers ?
this is some of the field work that we 've done .
we have now lived with 1,000 elderly households in 20 countries over the last 10 years .
we study people in rochester , new york .
we go live with them in the winter because what they do in the winter , and their access to healthcare , and how much they socialize , is very different than in the summer .
if they have a hip fracture we go with them and we study their entire discharge experience .
if they have a family member who is a key part of their care network , we fly and study them as well .
so , we study the holistic health experience of 1,000 seniors over the last 10 years in 20 different countries .
why is intel willing to fund that ?
it 's because of the second slogan that i want to talk about . ten years ago , when i started trying to convince intel to let me go start looking at disruptive technologies that could help with independent living , this is what i called it : " y2k + 10 . " you know , back in 2000 , we were all so obsessed with paying attention to the aging of our computers , and whether or not they were going to survive the tick of the clock from 1999 to 2000 , that we missed a moment that only demographers were paying attention to .
it was right around new years .
and that switchover , when we had the larger number of older people on the planet , for the first time than younger people .
for the first time in human history -- and barring aliens landing or some major other pandemic , that 's the expectation from demographers , going forward .
and 10 years ago it seemed like i had a lot of time to convince intel to work on this . right ?
y2k + 10 was coming , the baby boomers starting to retire .
well folks , it 's like we know these demographics here .
this is a map of the entire world . it 's like the lights are on , but nobody 's home on this demographic y2k + 10 problem . right ?
i mean we sort of get it here , but we don 't get it here ,
and we 're not doing anything about it .
the health reform bill is largely ignoring the realities of the age wave that 's coming , and the implications for what we need to do to change not only how we pay for care , but deliver care in some radically different ways .
and in fact , it 's upon us .
i mean you probably saw these headlines . this is catherine casey who is the first boomer to actually get social security .
that actually occurred this year . she took early retirement .
she was born one second after midnight in 1946 .
a retired school teacher ,
there she is with a social security administrator .
the first boomer actually , we didn 't even wait till 2011 , next year .
we 're already starting to see early retirement occur this year .
all right , so it 's here . this y2k + 10 problem is at our door .
this is 50 tsunamis scheduled on the calendar ,
but somehow we can 't sort of marshal our government and innovative forces to sort of get out in front of it and do something about it . we 'll wait until it 's more of a catastrophe , and react , as opposed to prepare for it .
so , one of the reasons it 's so challenging to prepare for this y2k problem is , i want to argue , we have what i would call mainframe poisoning .
andy grove , about six or seven years ago , he doesn 't even know or remember this , in a fortune magazine article he used the phrase " mainframe healthcare , " and i 've been extending and expanding this .
he saw it written down somewhere . he 's like , " eric that 's a really cool concept . "
i was like , " actually it was your idea . you said it in a fortune magazine article .
i just extended it . "
you know , this is the mainframe .
this mentality of traveling to and timesharing large , expensive healthcare systems actually began in 1787 .
this is the first general hospital in vienna .
and actually the second general hospital in vienna , in about 1850 , was where we started to build out an entire curriculum for teaching med students specialties .
and it 's a place in which we started developing architecture that literally divided the body , and divided care into departments and compartments .
and it was reflected in our architecture ,
it was reflected in the way that we taught students ,
and this mainframe mentality persists today .
now , i 'm not anti-hospital .
with my own healthcare problems , i 've taken drug therapies , i 've traveled to this hospital and others , many , many times .
but we worship the high hospital on a hill . right ?
and this is mainframe healthcare .
and just as 30 years ago we couldn 't conceive that we would have the power of a mainframe computer that took up a room this size in our purses and on our belts , that we 're carrying around in our cell phone today ,
and suddenly , computing , that used to be an expert driven system , it was a personal system that we all owned as part of our daily lives --
that shift from mainframe to personal computing is what we have to do for healthcare .
we have to shift from this mainframe mentality of healthcare to a personal model of healthcare .
we are obsessed with this way of thinking .
when intel does surveys all around the world and we say , " quick response : healthcare . " the first word that comes up is " doctor . "
the second that comes up is " hospital . " and the third is " illness " or " sickness . " right ?
we are wired , in our imagination , to think about healthcare and healthcare innovation as something that goes into that place .
our entire health reform discussion right now , health i.t. , when we talk with policy makers , equals " how are we going to get doctors using electronic medical records in the mainframe ? "
we 're not thinking about how do we shift from the mainframe to the home .
and the problem with this is the way we conceive healthcare . right ?
this is a very reactive , crisis-driven system .
we 're doing 15-minute exams with patients .
it 's population-based .
we collect a bunch of biological information in this artificial setting ,
and we fix them up , like humpty-dumpty all over again , and send them home , and hope -- we might hand them a brochure , maybe an interactive website -- that they do as asked and don 't come back into the mainframe .
and the problem is we can 't afford it today , folks .
we can 't afford mainframe healthcare today to include the uninsured .
and now we want to do a double-double of the age wave coming through ?
business as usual in healthcare is broken and we 've got to do something different .
we 've got to focus on the home .
we 've got to focus on a personal healthcare paradigm that moves care to the home . how do we be more proactive , prevention-driven ?
how do we collect vital signs and other kinds of information 24 by 7 ?
how do we get a personal baseline about what 's going to work for you ?
how do we collect not just biological data but behavioral data , psychological data , relational data , in and on and around the home ?
and how do we drive compliance to be a customized care plan that uses all this great technology that 's around us to change our behavior ?
that 's what we need to do for our personal health model .
i want to give you a couple of examples . this is mimi from one of our studies -- in her 90s , had to move out of her home because her family was worried about falls .
raise your hand if you had a serious fall in your household , or any of your loved ones , your parents or so forth . right ?
classic . hip fracture often leads to institutionalization of a senior .
this is what was happening to mimi ; the family was worried about it , moved her out of her own home into an assisted living facility .
she tripped over her oxygen tank .
many people in this generation won 't press the button , even if they have an alert call system , because they don 't want to bother anybody , even though they 've been paying 30 dollars a month .
boomers will press the button . trust me .
they 're going to be pressing that button non-stop . right ?
mimi broke her pelvis , lay all night , all morning , finally somebody came in and found her , sent her to the hospital .
they fixed her back up . she was never going to be able to move back into the assisted living . they put her into the nursing home unit .
first night in the nursing home unit where she had been in the same assisted living facility , moved her from one bed to another , kind of threw her , rebroke her pelvis ,
sent her back to the hospital that she had just come from , no one read the chart , put her on tylenol , which she is allergic to , broke out , got bedsores , basically , had heart problems , and died from the fall and the complications and the errors that were there .
now , the most frightening thing about this is this is my wife 's grandmother .
now , i 'm eric dishman . i speak english ,
i work for intel , i make a good salary ,
i 'm smart about falls and fall-related injuries --
it 's an area of research that i work on .
i have access to senators and ceos .
i can 't stop this from happening .
what happens if you don 't have money , you don 't speak english or don 't have the kind of access to deal with these kinds of problems that inevitably occur ?
how do we actually prevent the vast majority of falls from ever occurring in the first place ?
let me give you a quick example of work that we 're doing to try to do exactly that .
i 've been wearing a little technology that we call shimmer .
it 's a research platform .
it has accelerometry . you can plug in a three-lead ecg .
there is all kinds of sort of plug-and-play kind of legos that you can do to capture , in the wild , in the real world , things like tremor , gait , stride length and those kinds of things .
the problem is , our understanding of falls today , like mimi , is get a survey in the mail three months after you fell ,
from the state , saying , " what were you doing when you fell ? "
that 's sort of the state of the art .
but with something like shimmer , or we have something called the magic carpet , embedded sensors in carpet , or camera-based systems that we borrowed from sports medicine , we 're starting for the first time in those 600 elderly households to collect actual kinematic motion data to understand : what are the subtle changes that are occurring that can show us that mom has become risk at falls ?
and most often we can do two interventions , fix the meds mix .
i 'm a qualitative researcher , but when i look at these data streams coming in from these homes , i can look at the data and tell you the day that some doctor prescribed them something that nobody else knew that they were on , because we see the changes in their patterns in the household . right ?
these discoveries of behavioral markers , and behavioral changes are game changing , and like the discovery of the microscope because of our collecting data streams that we 've actually never done before .
this is an example in our tril clinic in ireland of -- actually what you 're seeing is she 's looking at data , in this picture , from the magic carpet .
so , we have a little carpet that you can look at your amount of postural sway , and look at the changes in your postural sway over many months .
here 's what some of this data might look like .
this is actually sensor firings .
these are two different subjects in our study .
it 's about a year 's worth of data .
the color represents different rooms they are in the house .
this person on the left is living in their own home .
this person on the right is actually living in an assisted living facility .
i know this because look at how punctuated meal time is when they are no longer in their particular rooms here . right ?
now , this doesn 't mean that much to you .
but when we look at these cycles of data over a longer period of time -- and we 're looking at everything from motion around different rooms in the house , to sort of micro-motions that shimmer picks up , about gait and stride length -- these streams of data are starting to tell us things about behavioral patterns that we 've never understood before .
you can go to orcatech.org -- it has nothing to do with whales , it 's the oregon center for aging and technology --
to see more about that .
the problem is , intel is still one of the largest funders in the world of independent living technology research .
i 'm not bragging about how much we fund ; it 's how little anyone else actually pays attention to aging and funds innovation on aging , chronic disease management and independent living in the home .
so , my mantra here , my fourth slogan is : 10,000 households or bust .
we need to drive a national , if not international , framingham-type heart study of independent living technologies , where we have 10,000 elderly connected households with broadband , full medical characterization , and a platform by which we can start to experiment and turn these from 20-household anecdotal studies that the universities fund , to large clinical trials that prove out the value of these technologies .
so , 10,000 households or bust .
these are just some of the households that we 've done in the intel studies .
my fifth and final phrase : i have tried for two years , and there were moments when we were quite close , to make this healthcare reform bill be about reform from something and to something ,
from a mainframe model to a personal health model , or to mean something more than just a debate about the public option and how we 're going to finance .
it doesn 't matter how we finance healthcare .
we 're going to figure something out for the next 10 years , and try it .
no matter who pays for it , we better start doing care in a fundamentally different way and treating the home and the patient and the family member and the caregivers as part of these coordinated care teams
and using disruptive technologies that are already here to do care in some pretty fundamental different ways .
the president needs to stand up and say , at the end of a healthcare reform debate , " our goal as a country is to move 50 percent of care out of institutions , clinics , hospitals and nursing homes , to the home , in 10 years . "
it 's achievable . we should do it economically ,
we should do it morally ,
and we should do it for quality of life .
but there is no goal within this health reform .
it 's just a mess today .
so , you know , that 's my last message to you .
how do we set a going-to-the-moon goal of dealing with the y2k + 10 problem that 's coming ?
it 's not that innovation and technology is going to be the magic pill that cures all , but it 's going to be part of the solution .
and if we don 't create a personal health movement , something that we 're all aiming towards in reform , then we 're going to move nowhere .
so , i hope you 'll turn this conference into that kind of movement forward .
thanks very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / tristram _ stuart _ the _ global _ food _ waste _ scandal.html
western countries throw out nearly half of their food , not because it 's inedible -- but because it doesn 't look appealing . tristram stuart delves into the shocking data of wasted food , calling for a more responsible use of global resources .
environment , food
1565
tristram stuart : the global food waste scandal
the job of uncovering the global food waste scandal started for me when i was 15 years old .
i bought some pigs . i was living in sussex .
and i started to feed them in the most traditional and environmentally friendly way .
i went to my school kitchen , and i said , " give me the scraps that my school friends have turned their noses up at . " i went to the local baker and took their stale bread .
i went to the local greengrocer , and i went to a farmer who was throwing away potatoes because they were the wrong shape or size for supermarkets .
this was great . my pigs turned that food waste into delicious pork . i sold that pork to my school friends ' parents , and i made a good pocket money addition to my teenage allowance .
but i noticed that most of the food that i was giving my pigs was in fact fit for human consumption , and that i was only scratching the surface , and that right the way up the food supply chain , in supermarkets , greengrocers , bakers , in our homes , in factories and farms , we were hemorrhaging out food .
supermarkets didn 't even want to talk to me about how much food they were wasting .
i 'd been round the back . i 'd seen bins full of food being locked and then trucked off to landfill sites , and i thought , surely there is something more sensible to do with food than waste it .
one morning , when i was feeding my pigs , i noticed a particularly tasty-looking sun-dried tomato loaf that used to crop up from time to time .
i grabbed hold of it , sat down , and ate my breakfast with my pigs .
that was the first act of what i later learned to call freeganism , really an exhibition of the injustice of food waste , and the provision of the solution to food waste , which is simply to sit down and eat food , rather than throwing it away .
that became , as it were , a way of confronting large businesses in the business of wasting food , and exposing , most importantly , to the public , that when we 're talking about food being thrown away , we 're not talking about rotten stuff , we 're not talking about stuff that 's beyond the pale .
we 're talking about good , fresh food that is being wasted on a colossal scale .
eventually , i set about writing my book , really to demonstrate the extent of this problem
on a global scale . what this shows is a nation-by-nation breakdown of the likely level of food waste in each country in the world .
unfortunately , empirical data , good , hard stats , don 't exist ,
and therefore to prove my point , i first of all had to find some proxy way of uncovering how much food was being wasted .
so i took the food supply of every single country and i compared it to what was actually likely to be being consumed in each country .
that 's based on diet intake surveys , it 's based on levels of obesity , it 's based on a range of factors that gives you an approximate guess as to how much food is actually going into people 's mouths .
that black line in the middle of that table is the likely level of consumption with an allowance for certain levels of inevitable waste .
there will always be waste . i 'm not that unrealistic that i think we can live in a waste-free world .
but that black line shows what a food supply should be in a country if they allow for a good , stable , secure , nutritional diet for every person in that country .
any dot above that line , and you 'll quickly notice that that includes most countries in the world , represents unnecessary surplus , and is likely to reflect levels of waste in each country .
as a country gets richer , it invests more and more in getting more and more surplus into its shops and restaurants , and as you can see , most european and north american countries fall between 150 and 200 percent of the nutritional requirements of their populations .
so a country like america has twice as much food on its shop shelves and in its restaurants than is actually required to feed the american people .
but the thing that really struck me , when i plotted all this data , and it was a lot of numbers , was that you can see how it levels off .
countries rapidly shoot towards that 150 mark , and then they level off , and they don 't really go on rising as you might expect .
so i decided to unpack that data a little bit further to see if that was true or false .
and that 's what i came up with .
if you include not just the food that ends up in shops and restaurants , but also the food that people feed to livestock , the maize , the soy , the wheat , that humans could eat but choose to fatten livestock instead to produce increasing amounts of meat and dairy products , what you find is that most rich countries have between three and four times the amount of food that their population needs to feed itself .
a country like america has four times the amount of food that it needs .
when people talk about the need to increase global food production to feed those nine billion people that are expected on the planet by 2050 , i always think of these graphs .
the fact is , we have an enormous buffer in rich countries between ourselves and hunger .
we 've never had such gargantuan surpluses before .
in many ways , this is a great success story of human civilization , of the agricultural surpluses that we set out to achieve 12,000 years ago .
it is a success story . it has been a success story .
but what we have to recognize now is that we are reaching the ecological limits that our planet can bear , and when we chop down forests , as we are every day , to grow more and more food , when we extract water from depleting water reserves , when we emit fossil fuel emissions in the quest to grow more and more food , and then we throw away so much of it , we have to think about what we can start saving .
and yesterday , i went to one of the local supermarkets that i often visit to inspect , if you like , what they 're throwing away .
i found quite a few packets of biscuits amongst all the fruit and vegetables and everything else that was in there .
and i thought , well this could serve as a symbol for today .
so i want you to imagine that these nine biscuits that i found in the bin represent the global food supply ,
okay ? we start out with nine .
that 's what 's in fields around the world every single year .
the first biscuit we 're going to lose before we even leave the farm .
that 's a problem primarily associated with developing work agriculture , whether it 's a lack of infrastructure , refrigeration , pasteurization , grain stores , even basic fruit crates , which means
that food goes to waste before it even leaves the fields .
the next three biscuits are the foods that we decide to feed to livestock , the maize , the wheat and the soya .
unfortunately , our beasts are inefficient animals , and they turn two-thirds of that into feces and heat ,
so we 've lost those two , and we 've only kept this one in meat and dairy products .
two more we 're going to throw away directly into bins .
this is what most of us think of when we think of food waste , what ends up in the garbage , what ends up in supermarket bins , what ends up in restaurant bins . we 've lost another two , and we 've left ourselves with just four biscuits to feed on .
that is not a superlatively efficient use of global resources , especially when you think of the billion hungry people that exist already in the world .
having gone through the data , i then needed to demonstrate where that food ends up .
where does it end up ? we 're used to seeing the stuff
on our plates , but what about all the stuff that goes missing in between ?
supermarkets are an easy place to start .
this is the result of my hobby , which is unofficial bin inspections .
strange you might think , but if we could rely on corporations to tell us what they were doing in the back of their stores , we wouldn 't need to go sneaking around the back , opening up bins and having a look at what 's inside .
but this is what you can see more or less on every street corner in britain , in europe , in north america .
it represents a colossal waste of food , but what i discovered whilst i was writing my book was that this very evident abundance of waste was actually the tip of the iceberg .
when you start going up the supply chain , you find where the real food waste is happening on a gargantuan scale .
can i have a show of hands if you have a loaf of sliced bread in your house ?
who lives in a household where that crust -- that slice at the first and last end of each loaf -- who lives in a household where it does get eaten ?
okay , most people , not everyone , but most people , and this is , i 'm glad to say , what i see across the world ,
and yet has anyone seen a supermarket or sandwich shop anywhere in the world that serves sandwiches with crusts on it ?
i certainly haven 't .
so i kept on thinking , where do those crusts go ?
this is the answer , unfortunately : 13,000 slices of fresh bread coming out of this one single factory every single day , day-fresh bread .
in the same year that i visited this factory , i went to pakistan , where people in 2008 were going hungry as a result of a squeeze on global food supplies .
we contribute to that squeeze by depositing food in bins here in britain and elsewhere in the world . we take food
off the market shelves that hungry people depend on .
go one step up , and you get to farmers , who throw away sometimes a third or even more of their harvest because of cosmetic standards .
this farmer , for example , has invested 16,000 pounds in growing spinach , not one leaf of which he harvested , because there was a little bit of grass growing in amongst it .
potatoes that are cosmetically imperfect , all going for pigs .
parsnips that are too small for supermarket specifications , tomatoes in tenerife , oranges in florida , bananas in ecuador , where i visited last year , all being discarded . this is one day 's waste from one banana plantation in ecuador .
all being discarded , perfectly edible , because they 're the wrong shape or size .
if we do that to fruit and vegetables , you bet we can do it to animals too .
liver , lungs , heads , tails , kidneys , testicles , all of these things which are traditional , delicious and nutritious parts of our gastronomy go to waste . offal consumption has halved in britain and america in the last 30 years .
as a result , this stuff gets fed to dogs at best , or is incinerated .
this man , in kashgar , xinjiang province , in western china , is serving up his national dish .
it 's called sheep 's organs .
it 's delicious , it 's nutritious , and as i learned when i went to kashgar , it symbolizes their taboo against food waste .
i was sitting in a roadside cafe .
a chef came to talk to me , i finished my bowl , and halfway through the conversation , he stopped talking and he started frowning into my bowl .
i thought , " my goodness , what taboo have i broken ?
how have i insulted my host ? " he pointed at three grains of rice at the bottom of my bowl , and he said , " clean . " i thought , " my god , you know , i go around the world telling people to stop wasting food .
this guy has thrashed me at my own game . " but it gave me faith . it gave me faith that we , the people , do have the power to stop this tragic waste of resources if we regard it as socially unacceptable to waste food on a colossal scale , if we make noise about it , tell corporations about it , tell governments we want to see an end to food waste , we do have the power to bring about that change .
fish , 40 to 60 percent of european fish are discarded at sea , they don 't even get landed .
in our homes , we 've lost touch with food .
this is an experiment i did on three lettuces .
who keeps lettuces in their fridge ?
most people . the one on the left
was kept in a fridge for 10 days .
the one in the middle , on my kitchen table . not much difference .
the one on the right i treated like cut flowers .
it 's a living organism , cut the slice off , stuck it in a vase of water , it was all right for another two weeks after this .
some food waste , as i said at the beginning , will inevitably arise , so the question is , what is the best thing to do with it ?
i answered that question when i was 15 .
in fact , humans answered that question 6,000 years ago : we domesticated pigs to turn food waste back into food .
and yet , in europe , that practice has become illegal since 2001 as a result of the foot-and-mouth outbreak .
it 's unscientific . it 's unnecessary .
if you cook food for pigs , just as if you cook food for humans , it is rendered safe .
it 's also a massive saving of resources .
at the moment , europe depends on importing millions of tons of soy from south america , where its production contributes to global warming , to deforestation , to biodiversity loss , to feed livestock here in europe .
at the same time we throw away millions of tons of food waste which we could and should be feeding them .
if we did that , and fed it to pigs , we would save that amount of carbon .
if we feed our food waste which is the current government favorite way of getting rid of food waste , to anaerobic digestion , which turns food waste into gas to produce electricity , you save a paltry 448 kilograms of carbon dioxide per ton of food waste . it 's much better to feed it to pigs .
we knew that during the war .
a silver lining : it has kicked off globally , the quest to tackle food waste .
feeding the 5,000 is an event i first organized in 2009 .
we fed 5,000 people all on food that otherwise would have been wasted .
since then , it 's happened again in london , it 's happening internationally , and across the country .
it 's a way of organizations coming together to celebrate food , to say the best thing to do with food is to eat and enjoy it , and to stop wasting it .
for the sake of the planet we live on , for the sake of our children , for the sake of all the other organisms that share our planet with us , we are a terrestrial animal , and we depend on our land
for food . at the moment , we are trashing our land to grow food that no one eats .
stop wasting food . thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jack _ horner _ building _ a _ dinosaur _ from _ a _ chicken.html
renowned paleontologist jack horner has spent his career trying to reconstruct a dinosaur . he 's found fossils with extraordinarily well-preserved blood vessels and soft tissues , but never intact dna . so , in a new approach , he 's taking living descendants of the dinosaur and genetically engineering them to reactivate ancestral traits - including teeth , tails , and even hands - to make a " chickenosaurus . "
genetics , paleontology , science
1163
jack horner : building a dinosaur from a chicken
when i was growing up in montana , i had two dreams .
i wanted to be a paleontologist , a dinosaur paleontologist , and i wanted to have a pet dinosaur .
and so that 's what i 've been striving for all of my life .
i was very fortunate early in my career .
i was fortunate in finding things .
i wasn 't very good at reading things .
in fact , i don 't read much of anything .
i am extremely dyslexic , and so reading is the hardest thing i do .
but instead , i go out and i find things .
then i just pick things up .
i basically practice for finding money on the street .
and i wander about the hills ,
and i have found a few things .
and i have been fortunate enough to find things like the first eggs in the western hemisphere and the first baby dinosaurs in nests , the first dinosaur embryos and massive accumulations of bones .
and it happened to be at a time when people were just starting to begin to realize that dinosaurs weren 't the big , stupid , green reptiles that people had thought for so many years .
people were starting to get an idea that dinosaurs were special .
and so , at that time , i was able to make some interesting hypotheses along with my colleagues .
we were able to actually say that dinosaurs -- based on the evidence we had -- that dinosaurs built nests and lived in colonies and cared for their young , brought food to their babies and traveled in gigantic herds .
so it was pretty interesting stuff .
i have gone on to find more things and discover that dinosaurs really were very social .
we have found a lot of evidence that dinosaurs changed from when they were juveniles to when they were adults .
the appearance of them would have been different -- which it is in all social animals .
in social groups of animals , the juveniles always look different than the adults .
the adults can recognize the juveniles ; the juveniles can recognize the adults .
and so we 're making a better picture of what a dinosaur looks like .
and they didn 't just all chase jeeps around .
but it is that social thing that i guess attracted michael crichton .
and in his book , he talked about the social animals .
and then steven spielberg , of course , depicts these dinosaurs as being very social creatures .
the theme of this story is building a dinosaur , and so we come to that part of " jurassic park . "
michael crichton really was one of the first people to talk about bringing dinosaurs back to life .
you all know the story , right .
i mean , i assume everyone here has seen " jurassic park . "
if you want to make a dinosaur , you go out , you find yourself a piece of petrified tree sap -- otherwise known as amber -- that has some blood-sucking insects in it , good ones , and you get your insect and you drill into it and you suck out some dna , because obviously all insects that sucked blood in those days sucked dinosaur dna out .
and you take your dna back to the laboratory and you clone it .
and i guess you inject it into maybe an ostrich egg , or something like that ,
and then you wait , and , lo and behold , out pops a little baby dinosaur .
and everybody 's happy about that .
and they 're happy over and over again .
they keep doing it ; they just keep making these things .
and then , then , then , and then ...
then the dinosaurs , being social , act out their socialness ,
and they get together , and they conspire . and , of course , that 's what makes steven spielberg 's movie -- conspiring dinosaurs chasing people around . so i assume everybody knows that if you actually had a piece of amber and it had an insect in it , and you drilled into it , and you got something out of that insect , and you cloned it , and you did it over and over and over again , you 'd have a room full of mosquitoes .
and probably a whole bunch of trees as well .
now if you want dinosaur dna , i say go to the dinosaur .
so that 's what we 've done .
back in 1993 when the movie came out , we actually had a grant from the national science foundation to attempt to extract dna from a dinosaur ,
and we chose the dinosaur on the left , a tyrannosaurus rex , which was a very nice specimen . and one of my former doctoral students , dr. mary schweitzer , actually had the background to do this sort of thing .
and so she looked into the bone of this t. rex , one of the thigh bones , and she actually found some very interesting structures in there .
they found these red circular-looking objects , and they looked , for all the world , like red blood cells .
and they 're in what appear to be the blood channels that go through the bone .
and so she thought , well , what the heck .
so she sampled some material out of it .
now it wasn 't dna ; she didn 't find dna .
but she did find heme , which is the biological foundation of hemoglobin .
and that was really cool .
that was interesting .
that was -- here we have 65-million-year-old heme .
well we tried and tried and we couldn 't really get anything else out of it .
so a few years went by , and then we started the hell creek project .
and the hell creek project was this massive undertaking to get as many dinosaurs as we could possibly find , and hopefully find some dinosaurs that had more material in them .
and out in eastern montana there 's a lot of space , a lot of badlands , and not very many people ,
and so you can go out there and find a lot of stuff .
and we did find a lot of stuff .
we found a lot of tyrannosaurs , but we found one special tyrannosaur , and we called it b-rex .
and b-rex was found under a thousand cubic yards of rock .
it wasn 't a very complete t. rex , and it wasn 't a very big t. rex , but it was a very special b-rex .
and i and my colleagues cut into it , and we were able to determine , by looking at lines of arrested growth , some lines in it , that b-rex had died at the age of 16 .
we don 't really know how long dinosaurs lived , because we haven 't found the oldest one yet .
but this one died at the age of 16 .
we gave samples to mary schweitzer , and she was actually able to determine that b-rex was a female based on medullary tissue found on the inside of the bone .
medullary tissue is the calcium build-up , the calcium storage basically , when an animal is pregnant , when a bird is pregnant .
so here was the character that linked birds and dinosaurs .
but mary went further .
she took the bone , and she dumped it into acid .
now we all know that bones are fossilized , and so if you dump it into acid , there shouldn 't be anything left .
but there was something left .
there were blood vessels left .
there were flexible , clear blood vessels .
and so here was the first soft tissue from a dinosaur .
it was extraordinary .
but she also found osteocytes , which are the cells that laid down the bones .
and try and try , we could not find dna , but she did find evidence of proteins .
but we thought maybe -- well , we thought maybe that the material was breaking down after it was coming out of the ground .
we thought maybe it was deteriorating very fast .
and so we built a laboratory in the back of an 18-wheeler trailer , and actually took the laboratory to the field where we could get better samples .
and we did . we got better material .
the cells looked better .
the vessels looked better .
found the protein collagen .
i mean , it was wonderful stuff .
but it 's not dinosaur dna .
so we have discovered that dinosaur dna , and all dna , just breaks down too fast .
we 're just not going to be able to do what they did in " jurassic park . "
we 're not going to be able to make a dinosaur based on a dinosaur .
but birds are dinosaurs .
birds are living dinosaurs .
we actually classify them as dinosaurs .
we now call them non-avian dinosaurs and avian dinosaurs .
so the non-avian dinosaurs are the big clunky ones that went extinct .
avian dinosaurs are our modern birds .
so we don 't have to make a dinosaur because we already have them .
i know , you 're as bad as the sixth-graders .
the sixth-graders look at it and they say , " no . "
" you can call it a dinosaur , but look at the velociraptor : the velociraptor is cool . "
" the chicken is not . "
so this is our problem , as you can imagine .
the chicken is a dinosaur .
i mean it really is .
you can 't argue with it because we 're the classifiers and we 've classified it that way .
but the sixth-graders demand it .
" fix the chicken . "
so that 's what i 'm here to tell you about : how we are going to fix a chicken .
so we have a number of ways that we actually can fix the chicken .
because evolution works , we actually have some evolutionary tools .
we 'll call them biological modification tools .
we have selection .
and we know selection works .
we started out with a wolf-like creature and we ended up with a maltese .
i mean , that 's -- that 's definitely genetic modification .
or any of the other funny-looking little dogs .
we also have transgenesis .
transgenesis is really cool too .
that 's where you take a gene out of one animal and stick it in another one .
that 's how people make glofish .
you take a glow gene out of a coral or a jellyfish and you stick it in a zebrafish , and , puff , they glow .
and that 's pretty cool .
and they obviously make a lot of money off of them .
and now they 're making glow-rabbits and glow-all-sorts-of-things .
i guess we could make a glow chicken .
but i don 't think that 'll satisfy the sixth-graders either .
but there 's another thing .
there 's what we call atavism activation .
and atavism activation is basically -- an atavism is an ancestral characteristic .
you heard that occasionally children are born with tails , and it 's because it 's an ancestral characteristic .
and so there are a number of atavisms that can happen .
snakes are occasionally born with legs .
and here 's an example .
this is a chicken with teeth .
a fellow by the name of matthew harris at the university of wisconsin in madison actually figured out a way to stimulate the gene for teeth , and so was able to actually turn the tooth gene on and produce teeth in chickens .
now that 's a good characteristic .
we can save that one .
we know we can use that .
we can make a chicken with teeth .
that 's getting closer .
that 's better than a glowing chicken .
a friend of mine , a colleague of mine , dr. hans larsson at mcgill university , is actually looking at atavisms .
and he 's looking at them by looking at the embryo genesis of birds and actually looking at how they develop ,
and he 's interested in how birds actually lost their tail .
he 's also interested in the transformation of the arm , the hand , to the wing .
he 's looking for those genes as well .
and i said , " well , if you can find those , i can just reverse them and make what i need to make for the sixth-graders . "
and so he agreed .
and so that 's what we 're looking into .
if you look at dinosaur hands , a velociraptor has that cool-looking hand with the claws on it .
archaeopteryx , which is a bird , a primitive bird , still has that very primitive hand .
but as you can see , the pigeon , or a chicken or anything else , another bird , has kind of a weird-looking hand , because the hand is a wing .
but the cool thing is that , if you look in the embryo , as the embryo is developing the hand actually looks pretty much like the archaeopteryx hand .
it has the three fingers , the three digits .
but a gene turns on that actually fuses those together .
and so what we 're looking for is that gene .
we want to stop that gene from turning on , fusing those hands together , so we can get a chicken that hatches out with a three-fingered hand , like the archaeopteryx .
and the same goes for the tails .
birds have basically rudimentary tails .
and so we know that in embryo , as the animal is developing , it actually has a relatively long tail .
but a gene turns on and resorbs the tail , gets rid of it .
so that 's the other gene we 're looking for .
we want to stop that tail from resorbing .
so what we 're trying to do really is take our chicken , modify it and make the chickenosaurus .
it 's a cooler-looking chicken .
but it 's just the very basics .
so that really is what we 're doing .
and people always say , " why do that ?
why make this thing ?
what good is it ? "
well , that 's a good question .
actually , i think it 's a great way to teach kids about evolutionary biology and developmental biology and all sorts of things .
and quite frankly , i think if colonel sanders was to be careful how he worded it , he could actually advertise an extra piece .
anyway -- when our dino-chicken hatches , it will be , obviously , the poster child , or what you might call a poster chick , for technology , entertainment and design .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / danny _ hillis _ the _ internet _ could _ crash _ we _ need _ a _ plan _ b.html
in the 1970s and 1980s , a generous spirit suffused the internet , whose users were few and far between . but today , the net is ubiquitous , connecting billions of people , machines and essential pieces of infrastructure -- leaving us vulnerable to cyber-attack or meltdown . internet pioneer danny hillis argues that the internet wasn 't designed for this kind of scale , and sounds a clarion call for us to develop a plan b : a parallel system to fall back on if -- or when -- the internet crashes .
internet , computers , technology
1693
danny hillis : the internet could crash . we need a plan b
so , this book that i have in my hand is a directory of everybody who had an email address in 1982 .
actually , it 's deceptively large .
there 's actually only about 20 people on each page , because we have the name , address and telephone number of every single person .
and , in fact , everybody 's listed twice , because it 's sorted once by name and once by email address .
obviously a very small community .
there were only two other dannys on the internet then .
i knew them both .
we didn 't all know each other , but we all kind of trusted each other , and that basic feeling of trust permeated the whole network , and there was a real sense that we could depend on each other to do things .
so just to give you an idea of the level of trust in this community , let me tell you what it was like to register a domain name in the early days .
now , it just so happened that i got to register the third domain name on the internet .
so i could have anything i wanted other than bbn.com and symbolics.com .
so i picked think.com , but then i thought , you know , there 's a lot of really interesting names out there .
maybe i should register a few extras just in case .
and then i thought , " nah , that wouldn 't be very nice . " that attitude of only taking what you need was really what everybody had on the network in those days , and in fact , it wasn 't just the people on the network , but it was actually kind of built into the protocols of the internet itself .
so the basic idea of i.p. , or internet protocol , and the way that the -- the routing algorithm that used it , were fundamentally " from each according to their ability , to each according to their need . " and so , if you had some extra bandwidth , you 'd deliver a message for someone .
if they had some extra bandwidth , they would deliver a message for you .
you 'd kind of depend on people to do that , and that was the building block .
it was actually interesting that such a communist principle was the basis of a system developed during the cold war by the defense department , but it obviously worked really well , and we all saw what happened with the internet .
it was incredibly successful .
in fact , it was so successful that there 's no way that these days you could make a book like this .
my rough calculation is it would be about 25 miles thick .
but , of course , you couldn 't do it , because we don 't know the names of all the people with internet or email addresses , and even if we did know their names , i 'm pretty sure that they would not want their name , address and telephone number published to everyone .
so the fact is that there 's a lot of bad guys on the internet these days , and so we dealt with that by making walled communities , secure subnetworks , vpns , little things that aren 't really the internet but are made out of the same building blocks , but we 're still basically building it out of those same building blocks with those same assumptions of trust .
and that means that it 's vulnerable to certain kinds of mistakes that can happen , or certain kinds of deliberate attacks , but even the mistakes can be bad .
so , for instance , in all of asia recently , it was impossible to get youtube for a little while because pakistan made some mistakes in how it was censoring youtube in its internal network .
they didn 't intend to screw up asia , but they did because of the way that the protocols work .
another example that may have affected many of you in this audience is , you may remember a couple of years ago , all the planes west of the mississippi were grounded because a single routing card in salt lake city had a bug in it .
now , you don 't really think that our airplane system depends on the internet , and in some sense it doesn 't .
i 'll come back to that later .
but the fact is that people couldn 't take off because something was going wrong on the internet , and the router card was down .
and so , there are many of those things that start to happen .
now , there was an interesting thing that happened last april .
all of a sudden , a very large percentage of the traffic on the whole internet , including a lot of the traffic between u.s. military installations , started getting re-routed through china .
so for a few hours , it all passed through china .
now , china telecom says it was just an honest mistake , and it is actually possible that it was , the way things work , but certainly somebody could make a dishonest mistake of that sort if they wanted to , and it shows you how vulnerable the system is even to mistakes .
imagine how vulnerable the system is to deliberate attacks .
so if somebody really wanted to attack the united states or western civilization these days , they 're not going to do it with tanks .
that will not succeed .
what they 'll probably do is something very much like the attack that happened on the iranian nuclear facility .
nobody has claimed credit for that .
there was basically a factory of industrial machines .
it didn 't think of itself as being on the internet .
it thought of itself as being disconnected from the internet , but it was possible for somebody to smuggle a usb drive in there , or something like that , and software got in there that causes the centrifuges , in that case , to actually destroy themselves .
now that same kind of software could destroy an oil refinery or a pharmaceutical factory or a semiconductor plant .
and so there 's a lot of -- i 'm sure you 've read a lot in papers , about worries about cyber attacks and defenses against those .
but the fact is , people are mostly focused on defending the computers on the internet , and there 's been surprisingly little attention to defending the internet itself as a communications medium .
and i think we probably do need to pay some more attention to that , because it 's actually kind of fragile .
so actually , in the early days , back when it was the arpanet , there were actually times -- there was a particular time it failed completely because one single message processor actually got a bug in it .
and the way the internet works is the routers are basically exchanging information about how they can get messages to places , and this one processor , because of a broken card , decided it could actually get a message to some place in negative time .
so , in other words , it claimed it could deliver a message before you sent it .
so of course , the fastest way to get a message anywhere was to send it to this guy , who would send it back in time and get it there super early , so every message in the internet started getting switched through this one node , and of course that clogged everything up .
everything started breaking .
the interesting thing was , though , that the sysadmins were able to fix it , but they had to basically turn every single thing on the internet off .
now , of course you couldn 't do that today .
i mean , everything off , it 's like the service call you get from the cable company , except for the whole world .
now , in fact , they couldn 't do it for a lot of reasons today .
one of the reasons is a lot of their telephones use ip protocol and use things like skype and so on that go through the internet right now , and so in fact we 're becoming dependent on it for more and more different things , like when you take off from lax , you 're really not thinking you 're using the internet .
when you pump gas , you really don 't think you 're using the internet .
what 's happening increasingly , though , is these systems are beginning to use the internet .
most of them aren 't based on the internet yet , but they 're starting to use the internet for service functions , for administrative functions , and so if you take something like the cell phone system , which is still relatively independent of the internet for the most part , internet pieces are beginning to sneak into it in terms of some of the control and administrative functions ,
and it 's so tempting to use these same building blocks because they work so well , they 're cheap , they 're repeated , and so on .
so all of our systems , more and more , are starting to use the same technology and starting to depend on this technology .
and so even a modern rocket ship these days actually uses internet protocol to talk from one end of the rocket ship to the other .
that 's crazy . it was never designed to do things like that .
so we 've built this system where we understand all the parts of it , but we 're using it in a very , very different way than we expected to use it , and it 's gotten a very , very different scale than it was designed for .
and in fact , nobody really exactly understands all the things it 's being used for right now .
it 's turning into one of these big emergent systems like the financial system , where we 've designed all the parts but nobody really exactly understands how it operates and all the little details of it and what kinds of emergent behaviors it can have .
and so if you hear an expert talking about the internet and saying it can do this , or it does do this , or it will do that , you should treat it with the same skepticism that you might treat the comments of an economist about the economy or a weatherman about the weather , or something like that .
they have an informed opinion , but it 's changing so quickly that even the experts don 't know exactly what 's going on .
so if you see one of these maps of the internet , it 's just somebody 's guess .
nobody really knows what the internet is right now because it 's different than it was an hour ago .
it 's constantly changing . it 's constantly reconfiguring .
and the problem with it is , i think we are setting ourselves up for a kind of disaster like the disaster we had in the financial system , where we take a system that 's basically built on trust , was basically built for a smaller-scale system , and we 've kind of expanded it way beyond the limits of how it was meant to operate .
and so right now , i think it 's literally true that we don 't know what the consequences of an effective denial-of-service attack on the internet would be , and whatever it would be is going to be worse next year , and worse next year , and so on .
but so what we need is a plan b .
there is no plan b right now .
there 's no clear backup system that we 've very carefully kept to be independent of the internet , made out of completely different sets of building blocks .
so what we need is something that doesn 't necessarily have to have the performance of the internet , but the police department has to be able to call up the fire department even without the internet , or the hospitals have to order fuel oil .
this doesn 't need to be a multi-billion-dollar government project .
it 's actually relatively simple to do , technically , because it can use existing fibers that are in the ground , existing wireless infrastructure .
it 's basically a matter of deciding to do it .
but people won 't decide to do it until they recognize the need for it , and that 's the problem that we have right now .
so there 's been plenty of people , plenty of us have been quietly arguing that we should have this independent system for years , but it 's very hard to get people focused on plan b when plan a seems to be working so well .
so i think that , if people understand how much we 're starting to depend on the internet , and how vulnerable it is , we could get focused on just wanting this other system to exist , and i think if enough people say , " yeah , i would like to use it , i 'd like to have such a system , " then it will get built .
it 's not that hard a problem .
it could definitely be done by people in this room .
and so i think that this is actually , of all the problems you 're going to hear about at the conference , this is probably one of the very easiest to fix .
so i 'm happy to get a chance to tell you about it .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / charles _ fleischer _ insists _ all _ things _ are _ moleeds.html
in a presentation that can only be described as epic , comedian charles fleischer delivers a hysterical send-up of a time-honored ted theme : the map . geometry , numbers , charts and stamp art also factor in , as he weaves together a unique theory of everything called " moleeds . "
astronomy , comedy , humor , map , science
738
charles fleischer insists : all things are moleeds
i am going to be talking about secrets .
obviously the best way to divulge a secret is to tell someone to not say anything about it .
secrets . i 'm using powerpoint this year just because , you know , i 'm into the ted thing .
and when you use these things you don 't have to go like that .
you just press it .
oh , man . um , yes .
yes . i 'm sure ! just change it !
is bill gates here ?
change it ! come on ! what ?
ah ! okay .
that 's not my slides , but it 's okay .
as you can see , these are all maps .
and maps are important devices for transferring information , especially if you have human cognitive ability .
we can see that all formulas are really maps .
now , as humans , we make maps of places that we seldom even go ,
which seems a little wasteful of time .
this , of course , is a map of the moon .
there 're some very delightful names .
tranquilacalitis , [ unclear ] . my favorite is frigoris .
what are these people thinking ? frigoris ?
what the frigoris you doing ? names are important .
frigoris ? this is the moon . people could live there one day .
i 'll meet you at frigoris . no . i don 't think so .
there we see mars , again with various names .
and this is all done , by the way , by the international astronomical union .
this is an actual group of people that sit around naming planetary objects .
this is from their actual book .
these are some of the names that they have chosen , ladies and gentlemen .
i 'll go through a little of them . bolotnitsa .
that , of course , is the slavic swamp mermaid .
now i think the whole concept of a mermaid doesn 't really blend into the swamp feel .
" oh look ! mermaid come out of swamp . oh boy !
it 's time for bolotnitsa ! " djabran fluctus .
if that don 't flow off the tongue , what does ?
i mean kids are studying this stuff and they 've got the word " fluctus " up there . that 's wrong .
one dyslexic kid and he could be ruining his life .
" it fluctus up , mama . "
hikuleo fluctus .
that 's a little more flowing . hikuleo sounds like a kind of a leonardo dicaprio 17 syllable thing .
and that 's the tonga underworld .
and one of my favorites is the itoki fluctus , who is the nicaraguan goddess of insects , stars , and planets .
now , if you 're a goddess of stars and planets wouldn 't you relegate insects to somebody else ?
" no , no , really , i 'm so busy with the stars .
would you mind taking the insects ? thank you darling .
oh take the spiders too . i know they 're not insects , but i don 't care .
monkeys , chimps , just get rid of the hairy creatures . " now , we 're going to be going to mars one day . and when we do , it 's going to be unfair for the people that are living there to have to live with these ridiculous names .
so , you 'll be on mars , and you 're at hellespointica depressio which has got to be a really " up " place .
yeah , i 'm at the depressio , and i want to get over to amazonis so i plug it into the mars map , and click the button and there 's my directions .
i go to chrysokeras .
left to the thymiamata .
then to niliacus lacus , which is not a bad name .
niliacus lacus , try to get the practice , slick-a-tick-a-bacus .
that 's a cool name . i will say that .
so , i hold back a little of my venom for these astronomical misnomers .
and then of course arnon to thoth .
and of course there will be advertisements .
this is from their rule book , the international astronomical union .
and you know they 're international because they put it " en francais " as well .
l 'union astronomique internationale , for those of you who don 't speak french .
i thought i 'd translate for you .
from the rulebook : nomenclature is a tool .
the first consideration , make it clear , simple and unambiguous .
and i think that djabran fluctus , that fits that mode .
that 's simple , the goddess of goats , very simple .
djabran fluctus .
" now , frank is this clear to you , djabran fluctus ? "
" yeah , that 's the goat goddess right ? the abacazanian ?
it 's clear to me . "
" listen , i 'm going back to the swamp mermaid . can you call me in a little while ? "
also , from the actual document i highlighted a part i thought may be of interest .
anyone can suggest changing a name .
so , i look to you , fellow member of the earth community .
we 've got to change this stuff up fast .
so , these are actual names of people that work there .
i did some more investigation .
these are more people working for this group .
and , as you can see , they don 't use their first names .
these are people naming planets , and they won 't use their first names .
something is askew here .
is it because his name is really jupiter blunck ?
is that ganymede andromeda burba ?
is that mars ya marov ?
i don 't know . but it 's investigative material , no doubt .
there are some mapping people who do use their names .
witness please , eugene shoemaker , who , diligently , from a young boy decided he wanted to make maps of celestial bodies .
must have been a very interesting day in the shoemaker house .
" mom , i want to make maps . "
" that 's wonderful eugene . you could make maps of toronto . "
" no , i want to make maps of planets . "
" yeah , go to your room . "
martians , venusians , jovians .
we have names for places where people don 't exist .
that seems a little silly to me .
there are no jovians .
getting back to my premise , i used stamps , by the way , because you don 't have to pay anybody for the rights .
there is obviously einstein , niels bohr , de fermat 's last theorem , and i 'm not sure whether that 's james coburn or richard harris .
it 's definitely one of the two . i 'm not really clear which one .
but obviously the point is that numbers are maps .
and within numbers , is there an underlying secret to the universe ?
that is the premise of this particular presentation .
by the way , that 's a natural picture of saturn , no adjustments . i mean that 's just beautiful .
so beautiful that i will even give up a laugh to explain my love of this particular planet , and the day saturday , named after it , wonderfully .
so , formulas relate number to form .
that 's euler , his formula was one of the inspirations that lead to the beginning of string theory which is kind of cool , not that funny , but it is cool .
he was also famous for having no body .
which a lot of you are like , " how did he figure that out ? "
he 's got no body , no man , just a head floating high .
here comes euler .
and that 's an icosahedron , which is one of the five sacred solids , very important shapes .
you see the icosahedron again .
the dodecahedron , it 's dual .
there is a dodecahedron which i had to do in my room last night .
the five sacred solids , as you can see there .
which is not to be confused with the five sacred salads .
blue cheese , ranch , oil and vinegar , thousand islands and house .
