http : / / www.ted.com / talks / stephen _ palumbi _ following _ the _ mercury _ trail.html
there 's a tight and surprising link between the ocean 's health and ours , says marine biologist stephen palumbi . he shows how toxins at the bottom of the ocean food chain find their way into our bodies , with a shocking story of toxic contamination from a japanese fish market . his work points a way forward for saving the oceans ' health -- and humanity 's .
fish , health , mission blue , oceans , science
899
stephen palumbi : following the mercury trail
it can be a very complicated thing , the ocean .
and it can be a very complicated thing , what human health is .
and bringing those two together might seem a very daunting task ,
but what i 'm going to try to say is that even in that complexity , there 's some simple themes that i think , if we understand , we can really move forward .
and those simple themes aren 't really themes about the complex science of what 's going on , but things that we all pretty well know .
and i 'm going to start with this one : if momma ain 't happy , ain 't nobody happy .
we know that , right ? we 've experienced that .
and if we just take that and we build from there , then we can go to the next step , which is that if the ocean ain 't happy , ain 't nobody happy .
that 's the theme of my talk .
and we 're making the ocean pretty unhappy in a lot of different ways .
this is a shot of cannery row in 1932 .
cannery row , at the time , had the biggest industrial canning operation on the west coast .
we piled enormous amounts of pollution into the air and into the water .
rolf bolin , who was a professor at the hopkin 's marine station where i work , wrote in the 1940s that " the fumes from the scum floating on the inlets of the bay were so bad they turned lead-based paints black . "
people working in these canneries could barely stay there all day because of the smell ,
but you know what they came out saying ?
they say , " you know what you smell ?
you smell money . "
that pollution was money to that community ,
and those people dealt with the pollution and absorbed it into their skin and into their bodies because they needed the money .
we made the ocean unhappy ; we made people very unhappy , and we made them unhealthy .
the connection between ocean health and human health is actually based upon another couple simple adages ,
and i want to call that " pinch a minnow , hurt a whale . "
the pyramid of ocean life ...
now , when an ecologist looks at the ocean -- i have to tell you -- we look at the ocean in a very different way , and we see different things than when a regular person looks at the ocean because when an ecologist looks at the ocean , we see all those interconnections .
we see the base of the food chain , the plankton , the small things , and we see how those animals are food to animals in the middle of the pyramid , and on so up this diagram .
and that flow , that flow of life , from the very base up to the very top , is the flow that ecologists see .
and that 's what we 're trying to preserve
when we say , " save the ocean . heal the ocean . "
it 's that pyramid .
now why does that matter for human health ?
because when we jam things in the bottom of that pyramid that shouldn 't be there , some very frightening things happen .
pollutants , some pollutants have been created by us : molecules like pcbs that can 't be broken down by our bodies .
and they go in the base of that pyramid , and they drift up ; they 're passed up that way , on to predators and on to the top predators ,
and in so doing , they accumulate .
now , to bring that home , i thought i 'd invent a little game .
we don 't really have to play it ; we can just think about it here .
it 's the styrofoam and chocolate game .
imagine that when we got on this boat , we were all given two styrofoam peanuts .
can 't do much with them : put them in your pocket .
suppose the rules are : every time you offer somebody a drink , you give them the drink , and you give them your styrofoam peanuts too .
what 'll happen is that the styrofoam peanuts will start moving through our society here , and they will accumulate in the drunkest , stingiest people .
there 's no mechanism in this game for them to go anywhere but into a bigger and bigger pile of indigestible styrofoam peanuts .
and that 's exactly what happens with pdbs in this food pyramid :
they accumulate into the top of it .
now suppose , instead of styrofoam peanuts , we take these lovely little chocolates that we get and we had those instead .
well , some of us would be eating those chocolates instead of passing them around ,
and instead of accumulating , they will just pass into our group here and not accumulate in any one group
because they 're absorbed by us .
and that 's the difference between a pcb and , say , something natural like an omega-3 , something we want out of the marine food chain .
pcbs accumulate .
we have great examples of that , unfortunately .
pcbs accumulate in dolphins in sarasota bay , in texas , in north carolina .
they get into the food chain .
the dolphins eat the fish that have pcbs from the plankton , and those pcbs , being fat-soluble , accumulate in these dolphins .
now , a dolphin , mother dolphin , any dolphin -- there 's only one way that a pcb can get out of a dolphin .
and what 's that ?
in mother 's milk .
here 's a diagram of the pcb load of dolphins in sarasota bay .
adult males : a huge load .
juveniles : a huge load .
females after their first calf is already weaned : a lower load .
those females , they 're not trying to .
those females are passing the pcbs in the fat of their own mother 's milk into their offspring ,
and their offspring don 't survive .
the death rate in these dolphins , for the first calf born of every female dolphin , is 60 to 80 percent .
these mothers pump their first offspring full of this pollutant ,
and most of them die .
now , the mother then can go and reproduce , but what a terrible price to pay for the accumulation of this pollutant in these animals -- the death of the first-born calf .
there 's another top predator in the ocean , it turns out .
that top predator , of course , is us .
and we also are eating meat that comes from some of these same places .
this is whale meat that i photographed in a grocery store in tokyo -- or is it ?
in fact , what we did a few years ago was learn how to smuggle a molecular biology lab into tokyo and use it to genetically test the dna out of whale meat samples and identify what they really were .
and some of those whale meat samples were whale meat .
some of them were illegal whale meat , by the way .
that 's another story .
but some of them were not whale meat at all .
even though they were labeled whale meat , they were dolphin meat .
some of them were dolphin liver . some of them were dolphin blubber .
and those dolphin parts had a huge load of pcbs , dioxins and heavy metals .
and that huge load was passing into the people that ate this meat .
it turns out that a lot of dolphins are being sold as meat in the whale meat market around the world .
that 's a tragedy for those populations ,
but it 's also a tragedy for the people eating them because they don 't know that that 's toxic meat .
we had these data a few years ago .
i remember sitting at my desk being about the only person in the world who knew that whale meat being sold in these markets was really dolphin meat , and it was toxic .
it had two-to-three-to-400 times the toxic loads ever allowed by the epa .
and i remember there sitting at my desk thinking , " well , i know this . this is a great scientific discovery , "
but it was so awful .
and for the very first time in my scientific career , i broke scientific protocol , which is that you take the data and publish them in scientific journals and then begin to talk about them .
we sent a very polite letter to the minister of health in japan and simply pointed out that this is an intolerable situation , not for us , but for the people of japan
because mothers who may be breastfeeding , who may have young children , would be buying something that they thought was healthy , but it was really toxic .
that led to a whole series of other campaigns in japan ,
and i 'm really proud to say that at this point , it 's very difficult to buy anything in japan that 's labeled incorrectly , even though they 're still selling whale meat , which i believe they shouldn 't .
but at least it 's labeled correctly ,
and you 're no longer going to be buying toxic dolphin meat instead .
it isn 't just there that this happens , but in a natural diet of some communities in the canadian arctic and in the united states and in the european arctic , a natural diet of seals and whales leads to an accumulation of pcbs that have gathered up from all parts of the world and ended up in these women .
these women have toxic breast milk .
they cannot feed their offspring , their children , their breast milk because of the accumulation of these toxins in their food chain , in their part of the world 's ocean pyramid .
that means their immune systems are compromised .
it means that their children 's development can be compromised .
and the world 's attention on this over the last decade has reduced the problem for these women , not by changing the pyramid , but by changing what they particularly eat out of it .
we 've taken them out of their natural pyramid in order to solve this problem .
that 's a good thing for this particular acute problem , but it does nothing to solve the pyramid problem .
there 's other ways of breaking the pyramid .
the pyramid , if we jam things in the bottom , can get backed up like a sewer line that 's clogged .
and if we jam nutrients , sewage , fertilizer in the base of that food pyramid , it can back up all through it .
we end up with things we 've heard about before : red tides , for example , which are blooms of toxic algae floating through the oceans causing neurological damage .
we can also see blooms of bacteria , blooms of viruses in the ocean .
these are two shots of a red tide coming on shore here and a bacteria in the genus vibrio , which includes the genus that has cholera in it .
how many people have seen a " beach closed " sign ?
why does that happen ?
it happens because we have jammed so much into the base of the natural ocean pyramid that these bacteria clog it up and overfill onto our beaches .
often what jams us up is sewage .
now how many of you have ever gone to a state park or a national park where you had a big sign at the front saying , " closed because human sewage is so far over this park that you can 't use it " ?
not very often . we wouldn 't tolerate that .
we wouldn 't tolerate our parks being swamped by human sewage ,
but beaches are closed a lot in our country . they 're closed more and more and more all around the world for the same reason ,
and i believe we shouldn 't tolerate that either .
it 's not just a question of cleanliness ;
it 's also a question of how those organisms then turn into human disease .
these vibrios , these bacteria , can actually infect people .
they can go into your skin and create skin infections .
this is a graph from noaa 's ocean and human health initiative , showing the rise of the infections by vibrio in people over the last few years .
surfers , for example , know this incredibly .
and if you can see on some surfing sites , in fact , not only do you see what the waves are like or what the weather 's like , but on some surf rider sites , you see a little flashing poo alert .
that means that the beach might have great waves , but it 's a dangerous place for surfers to be because they can carry with them , even after a great day of surfing , this legacy of an infection that might take a very long time to solve .
some of these infections are actually carrying antibiotic resistance genes now ,
and that makes them even more difficult .
these same infections create harmful algal blooms .
those blooms are generating other kinds of chemicals .
this is just a simple list of some of the types of poisons that come out of these harmful algal blooms : shellfish poisoning , fish ciguatera , diarrheic shellfish poisoning -- you don 't want to know about that -- neurotoxic shellfish poisoning , paralytic shellfish poisoning .
these are things that are getting into our food chain because of these blooms .
rita calwell very famously traced a very interesting story of cholera into human communities , brought there , not by a normal human vector , but by a marine vector , this copepod .
copepods are small crustaceans .
they 're a tiny fraction of an inch long ,
and they can carry on their little legs some of the cholera bacteria that then leads to human disease .
that has sparked cholera epidemics in ports along the world and has led to increased concentration on trying to make sure shipping doesn 't move these vectors of cholera around the world .
so what do you do ?
we have major problems in disrupted ecosystem flow that the pyramid may not be working so well , that the flow from the base up into it is being blocked and clogged .
what do you do when you have this sort of disrupted flow ?
well , there 's a bunch of things you could do .
you could call joe the plumber , for example .
and he could come in and fix the flow .
but in fact , if you look around the world , not only are there hope spots for where we may be able to fix problems , there have been places where problems have been fixed , where people have come to grips with these issues and begun to turn them around .
monterey is one of those .
i started out showing how much we had distressed the monterey bay ecosystem with pollution and the canning industry and all of the attendant problems .
in 1932 , that 's the picture .
in 2009 , the picture is dramatically different .
the canneries are gone . the pollution has abated .
but there 's a greater sense here that what the individual communities need is working ecosystems .
they need a functioning pyramid from the base all the way to the top .
and that pyramid in monterey , right now , because of the efforts of a lot of different people , is functioning better than it 's ever functioned for the last 150 years .
it didn 't happen accidentally .
it happened because many people put their time and effort and their pioneering spirit into this .
on the left there , julia platt , the mayor of my little hometown in pacific grove .
at 74 years old , became mayor because something had to be done to protect the ocean .
in 1931 , she produced california 's first community-based marine protected area , right next to the biggest polluting cannery , because julia knew that when the canneries eventually were gone , the ocean needed a place to grow from , that the ocean needed a place to spark a seed ,
and she wanted to provide that seed .
other people , like david packard and julie packard , who were instrumental in producing the monterey bay aquarium to lock into people 's notion that the ocean and the health of the ocean ecosystem were just as important to the economy of this area as eating the ecosystem would be .
that change in thinking has led to a dramatic shift , not only in the fortunes of monterey bay , but other places around the world .
well , i want to leave you with the thought that what we 're really trying to do here is protect this ocean pyramid ,
and that ocean pyramid connects to our own pyramid of life .
it 's an ocean planet , and we think of ourselves as a terrestrial species ,
but the pyramid of life in the ocean and our own lives on land are intricately connected .
and it 's only through having the ocean being healthy that we can remain healthy ourselves .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jessa _ gamble _ how _ to _ sleep.html
in today 's world , balancing school , work , kids and more , most of us can only hope for the recommended eight hours of sleep . examining the science behind our body 's internal clock , jessa gamble reveals the surprising and substantial program of rest we should be observing .
evolution , humanity , personal growth , science , self
957
jessa gamble : our natural sleep cycle
let 's start with day and night .
life evolved under conditions of light and darkness , light and then darkness .
and so plants and animals developed their own internal clocks so that they would be ready for these changes in light .
these are chemical clocks , and they 're found in every known being that has two or more cells and in some that only have one cell .
i 'll give you an example --
if you take a horseshoe crab off the beach , and you fly it all the way across the continent , and you drop it into a sloped cage , it will scramble up the floor of the cage as the tide is rising on its home shores , and it 'll skitter down again right as the water is receding thousands of miles away .
it 'll do this for weeks , until it kind of gradually loses the plot .
and it 's incredible to watch , but there 's nothing psychic or paranormal going on ; it 's simply that these crabs have internal cycles that correspond , usually , with what 's going on around it .
so , we have this ability as well .
and in humans , we call it the " body clock . "
you can see this most clearly when you take away someone 's watch and you shut them into a bunker , deep underground , for a couple of months .
people actually volunteer for this , and they usually come out kind of raving about their productive time in the hole .
so , no matter how atypical these subjects would have to be , they all show the same thing .
they get up just a little bit later every day -- say 15 minutes or so -- and they kind of drift all the way around the clock like this over the course of the weeks .
and so , in this way we know that they are working on their own internal clocks , rather than somehow sensing the day outside .
so fine , we have a body clock , and it turns out that it 's incredibly important in our lives .
it 's a huge driver for culture and i think that it 's the most underrated force on our behavior .
we evolved as a species near the equator , and so we 're very well-equipped to deal with 12 hours of daylight and 12 hours of darkness .
but of course , we 've spread to every corner of the globe and in arctic canada , where i live , we have perpetual daylight in summer and 24 hours of darkness in winter .
so the culture , the northern aboriginal culture , traditionally has been highly seasonal .
in winter , there 's a lot of sleeping going on ;
you enjoy your family life inside .
and in summer , it 's almost manic hunting and working activity very long hours , very active .
so , what would our natural rhythm look like ?
what would our sleeping patterns be in the sort of ideal sense ?
well , it turns out that when people are living without any sort of artificial light at all , they sleep twice every night .
they go to bed around 8 : 00 p.m .
until midnight and then again , they sleep from about 2 : 00 a.m. until sunrise .
and in-between , they have a couple of hours of sort of meditative quiet in bed .
and during this time , there 's a surge of prolactin , the likes of which a modern day never sees .
the people in these studies report feeling so awake during the daytime , that they realize they 're experiencing true wakefulness for the first time in their lives .
so , cut to the modern day .
we 're living in a culture of jet lag , global travel , 24-hour business , shift work .
and you know , our modern ways of doing things have their advantages , but i believe we should understand the costs .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / handpring _ puppet _ co _ the _ genius _ puppetry _ behind _ war _ horse.html
" puppets always have to try to be alive , " says adrian kohler of the handspring puppet company , a gloriously ambitious troupe of human and wooden actors . beginning with the tale of a hyena 's subtle paw , puppeteers kohler and basil jones build to the story of their latest astonishment : the wonderfully life-like joey , the war horse , who trots convincingly onto the ted stage .
animals , arts , design , entertainment , theater
1108
handspring puppet co . : the genius puppetry behind war horse
adrian kohler : well , we 're here today to talk about the evolution of a puppet horse .
basil jones : but actually we 're going to start this evolution with a hyena .
ak : the ancestor of the horse .
okay , we 'll do something with it .
hahahaha .
the hyena is the ancestor of the horse because it was part of a production called " faustus in africa , " a handspring production from 1995 , where it had to play draughts with helen of troy .
this production was directed by south african artist and theater director , william kentridge .
so it needed a very articulate front paw .
but , like all puppets , it has other attributes .
bj : one of them is breath , and it kind of breathes .
ak : haa haa haaa .
bj : breath is really important for us .
it 's the kind of original movement for any puppet for us onstage .
it 's the thing that distinguishes the puppet -- ak : oops .
bj : from an actor .
puppets always have to try to be alive .
it 's their kind of ur-story onstage , that desperation to live .
ak : yeah , it 's basically a dead object , as you can see , and it only lives because you make it .
an actor struggles to die onstage , but a puppet has to struggle to live .
and in a way that 's a metaphor for life .
bj : so every moment it 's on the stage , it 's making the struggle .
so we call this a piece of emotional engineering that uses up-to-the-minute 17th century technology -- to turn nouns into verbs .
ak : well actually i prefer to say that it 's an object constructed out of wood and cloth with movement built into it to persuade you to believe that it has life .
bj : okay so .
ak : it has ears that move passively when the head goes .
bj : and it has these bulkheads made out of plywood , covered with fabric -- curiously similar , in fact , to the plywood canoes that adrian 's father used to make when he was a boy in their workshop . ak : in port elizabeth , the village outside port elizabeth in south africa .
bj : his mother was a puppeteer .
and when we met at art school and fell in love in 1971 , i hated puppets .
i really thought they were so beneath me .
i wanted to become an avant-garde artist -- and punch and judy was certainly not where i wanted to go . and , in fact , it took about 10 years
to discover the bambara bamana puppets of mali in west africa , where there 's a fabulous tradition of puppetry , to learn a renewed , or a new , respect for this art form .
ak : so in 1981 , i persuaded basil and some friends of mine to form a puppet company .
and 20 years later , miraculously , we collaborated with a company from mali , the sogolon marionette troupe of bamako , where we made a piece about a tall giraffe .
it was just called " tall horse , " which was a life-sized giraffe .
bj : and here again , you see the same structure .
the bulkheads have now turned into hoops of cane , but it 's ultimately the same structure .
it 's got two people inside it on stilts , which give them the height , and somebody in the front who 's using a kind of steering wheel to move that head .
ak : the person in the hind legs is also controlling the tail , a bit like the hyena -- same mechanism , just a bit bigger .
and he 's controlling the ear movement .
bj : so this production was seen by tom morris of the national theatre in london .
and just around that time , his mother had said , " have you seen this book by michael morpurgo called ' war horse ' ? "
ak : it 's about a boy who falls in love with a horse .
the horse is sold to the first world war , and he joins up to find his horse .
bj : so tom gave us a call and said , " do you think you could make us a horse for a show to happen at the national theatre ? "
ak : it seemed a lovely idea .
bj : but it had to ride . it had to have a rider .
ak : it had to have a rider , and it had to participate in cavalry charges .
a play about early 20th century plowing technology and cavalry charges was a little bit of a challenge for the accounting department at the national theatre in london .
but they agreed to go along with it for a while .
so we began with a test .
bj : this is adrian and thys stander , who went on to actually design the cane system for the horse , and our next-door neighbor katherine , riding on a ladder .
the weight is really difficult when it 's up above your head .
ak : and once we put katherine through that particular brand of hell , we knew that we might be able to make a horse , which could be ridden .
so we made a model .
this is a cardboard model , a little bit smaller than the hyena .
you 'll notice that the legs are plywood legs and the canoe structure is still there .
bj : and the two manipulators are inside .
but we didn 't realize at the time that we actually needed a third manipulator , because we couldn 't manipulate the neck from inside and walk the horse at the same time .
ak : we started work on the prototype after the model was approved , and the prototype took a bit longer than we anticipated .
we had to throw out the plywood legs and make new cane ones .
and we had a crate built for it .
it had to be shipped to london .
we were going to test-drive it on the street outside of our house in cape town , and it got to midnight and we hadn 't done that yet .
bj : so we got a camera , and we posed the puppet in various galloping stances .
and we sent it off to the national theatre , hoping that they believed that we created something that worked .
ak : a month later , we were there in london with this big box and a studio full of people about to work with us .
bj : about 40 people .
ak : we were terrified .
we opened the lid , we took the horse out , and it did work ; it walked and it was able to be ridden .
here i have an 18-second clip of the very first walk of the prototype .
this is in the national theatre studio , the place where they cook new ideas .
it had by no means got the green light yet .
the choreographer , toby sedgwick , invented a beautiful sequence where the baby horse , which was made out of sticks and bits of twigs , grew up into the big horse .
and nick starr , the director of the national theatre , saw that particular moment , he was standing next to me -- he nearly wet himself .
and so the show was given the green light .
and we went back to cape town and redesigned the horse completely .
here is the plan .
and here is our factory in cape town where we make horses .
you can see quite a lot of skeletons in the background there .
the horses are completely handmade .
there is very little 20th century technology in them .
we used a bit of laser cutting on the plywood and some of the aluminum pieces .
but because they have to be light and flexible , and each one of them is different , they can 't be mass-produced , unfortunately .
so here are some half-finished horses ready to be worked in london .
and now we would like to introduce you to joey .
joey boy , you there ?
joey .
joey .
joey , come here .
no , no , i haven 't got it .
he 's got it ; it 's in his pocket .
bj : joey .
ak : joey , joey , joey , joey .
come here . stand here where people can see you .
move around . come on .
i 'd just like to describe -- i won 't talk too loud . he might get irritated .
here , craig is working the head .
he has bicycle brake cables going down to the head control in his hand .
each one of them operates either an ear , separately , or the head , up and down .
but he also controls the head directly by using his hand .
the ears are obviously a very important emotional indicator of the horse .
when they point right back , the horse is fearful or angry , depending upon what 's going on in front of him , around him .
or , when he 's more relaxed , the head comes down and the ears listen , either side .
horses ' hearing is very important .
it 's almost more important than their eyesight .
over here , tommy 's got what you call the heart position .
he 's working the leg .
you see the string tendon from the hyena , the hyena 's front leg , automatically pulls the hoop up .
horses are so unpredictable .
the way a hoof comes up with a horse immediately gives you the feeling that it 's a convincing horse action .
the hind legs have got the same action .
bj : and mikey also has , in his fingers , the ability to move the tail from left to right , and up and down with the other hand .
and together , there 's quite a complex possibility of tail expression .
ak : you want to say something about the breathing ?
bj : we had a big challenge with breathing .
adrian thought that he was going to have to split the chest of the puppet in two and make it breathe like that -- because that 's how a horse would breathe , with an expanded chest .
but we realized that , if that were to be happening , you wouldn 't , as an audience , see the breath .
so he made a channel in here , and the chest moves up and down in that channel .
so it 's anti-naturalistic really , the up and down movement , but it feels like breath .
and it 's very , very simple because all that happens is that the puppeteer breathes with his knees .
ak : other emotional stuff .
if i were to touch the horse here on his skin , the heart puppeteer can shake the body from inside and get the skin to quiver .
you 'll notice , of course , that the puppet is made out of cane lines .
and i would like you to believe that it was an aesthetic choice , that i was making a three-dimensional drawing of a horse that somehow moves in space .
but of course , it was the cane is light , the cane is flexible , the cane is durable and the cane is moldable .
and so it was a very practical reason why it was made of cane .
the skin itself is made out of a see-through nylon mesh , which , if the lighting designer wants the horse to almost disappear , she can light the background and the horse becomes ghostlike .
you see the skeletal structure of it .
or if you light it from above , it becomes more solid .
again , that was a practical consideration .
the guys inside the horse have to be able to see out .
they have to be able to act along with their fellow actors in the production . and it 's very much an in-the-moment activity that they 're engaged in .
it 's three heads making one character .
but now we would like you to put joey through some paces .
and plant .
thank you .
and now just -- all the way from sunny california we have zem joaquin who 's going to ride the horse for us . so we would like to stress that the performance you see in the horse is three guys who have studied horse behavior incredibly thoroughly .
bj : not being able to talk to one another while they 're onstage because they 're mic 'd .
the sound that that very large chest makes , of the horse -- the whinnying and the nickering and everything -- that starts usually with one performer , carries on with a second person and ends with a third .
ak : mikey brett from leicestershire .
mikey brett , craig , leo , zem joaquin and basil and me .
thank you . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / katherine _ fulton _ you _ are _ the _ future _ of _ philanthropy.html
in this uplifting talk , katherine fulton sketches the new future of philanthropy -- one where collaboration and innovation allow regular people to do big things , even when money is scarce . giving five practical examples of crowd-driven philanthropy , she calls for a new generation of citizen leaders .
activism , bottom-up , community , global issues , philanthropy , potential
585
katherine fulton : you are the future of philanthropy
i want to help you re-perceive what philanthropy is , what it could be , and what your relationship to it is .
and in doing that , i want to offer you a vision , an imagined future , if you will , of how , as the poet seamus heaney has put it , " once in a lifetime the longed-for tidal wave of justice can rise up , and hope and history rhyme . "
i want to start with these word pairs here .
we all know which side of these we 'd like to be on .
when philanthropy was reinvented a century ago , when the foundation form was actually invented , they didn 't think of themselves on the wrong side of these either .
in fact they would never have thought of themselves as closed and set in their ways , as slow to respond to new challenges , as small and risk-averse .
and in fact they weren 't . they were reinventing charity in those times ,
what rockefeller called " the business of benevolence . "
but by the end of the 20th century , a new generation of critics and reformers had come to see philanthropy just this way .
the thing to watch for as a global philanthropy industry comes about -- and that 's exactly what is happening -- is how the aspiration is to flip these old assumptions ,
for philanthropy to become open and big and fast and connected , in service of the long term .
this entrepreneurial energy is emerging from many quarters .
and it 's driven and propelled forward by new leaders , like many of the people here , by new tools , like the ones we 've seen here , and by new pressures .
i 've been following this change for quite a while now , and participating in it .
this report is our main public report .
what it tells is the story of how today actually could be as historic as 100 years ago .
what i want to do is share some of the coolest things that are going on with you .
and as i do that , i 'm not going to dwell much on the very large philanthropy that everybody already knows about -- the gates or the soros or the google .
instead , what i want to do is talk about the philanthropy of all of us :
the democratization of philanthropy .
this is a moment in history when the average person has more power than at any time .
what i 'm going to do is look at five categories of experiments , each of which challenges an old assumption of philanthropy .
the first is mass collaboration , represented here by wikipedia .
now , this may surprise you .
but remember , philanthropy is about giving of time and talent , not just money .
clay shirky , that great chronicler of everything networked , has captured the assumption that this challenges in such a beautiful way .
he said , " we have lived in this world where little things are done for love and big things for money .
now we have wikipedia .
suddenly big things can be done for love . " watch , this spring , for paul hawken 's new book --
author and entrepreneur many of you may know about .
the book is called " blessed unrest . "
and when it comes out , a series of wiki sites under the label wiser , are going to launch at the same time .
wiser stands for world index for social and environmental responsibility .
wiser sets out to document , link and empower what paul calls the largest movement , and fastest-growing movement in human history :
humanity 's collective immune response to today 's threats .
now , all of these big things for love -- experiments -- aren 't going to take off .
but the ones that do are going to be the biggest , the most open , the fastest , the most connected form of philanthropy in human history .
second category is online philanthropy marketplaces .
this is , of course , to philanthropy what ebay and amazon are to commerce .
think of it as peer-to-peer philanthropy .
and this challenges yet another assumption , which is that organized philanthropy is only for the very wealthy .
take a look , if you haven 't , at donorschoose .
omidyar network has made a big investment in donorschoose .
it 's one of the best known of these new marketplaces where a donor can go straight into a classroom and connect with what a teacher says they need .
take a look at changing the present , started by a tedster , next time you need a wedding present or a holiday present .
giveindia is for a whole country .
and it goes on and on .
the third category is represented by warren buffet ,
which i call aggregated giving .
it 's not just that warren buffet was so amazingly generous in that historic act last summer .
it 's that he challenged another assumption , that every giver should have his or her own fund or foundation .
there are now , today , so many new funds that are aggregating giving and investing , bringing together people around a common goal , to think bigger .
one of the best known is acumen fund , led by jacqueline novogratz , a tedster who got a big boost here at ted .
but there are many others : new profit in cambridge , new school 's venture fund in silicon valley , venture philanthropy partners in washington , global fund for women in san francisco .
take a look at these .
these funds are to philanthropy what venture capital , private equity , and eventually mutual funds are to investing ,
but with a twist -- because often a community forms around these funds , as it has at acumen and other places .
now , imagine for a second these first three types of experiments : mass collaboration , online marketplaces , aggregated giving .
and understand how they help us re-perceive what organized philanthropy is .
it 's not about foundations necessarily ; it 's about the rest of us .
and imagine the mash-up , if you will , of these things , in the future , when these things come together in the experiments of the future -- imagine that somebody puts up , say , 100 million dollars for an inspiring goal -- there were 21 gifts of 100 million dollars or more in the us last year , not out of the question -- but only puts it up if it 's matched by millions of small gifts from around the globe ,
thereby engaging lots of people , and building visibility and engaging people in the goal that 's stated .
i 'm going to look quickly at the fourth and fifth categories , which are innovation , competitions and social investing .
they 're betting a visible competition , a prize , can attract talent and money to some of the most difficult issues , and thereby speed the solution .
this tackles yet another assumption , that the giver and the organization is at the center , as opposed to putting the problem at the center .
you can look to these innovators to help us especially with things that require technological or scientific solution .
that leaves the final category , social investing , which is really , anyway , the biggest of them all ,
represented here by xigi.net .
and this , of course , tackles the biggest assumption of all , that business is business , and philanthropy is the vehicle of people who want to create change in the world .
xigi is a new community site that 's built by the community , linking and mapping this new social capital market .
it lists already 1,000 entities that are offering debt and equity for social enterprise .
so we can look to these innovators to help us remember that if we can leverage even a small amount of the capital that seeks a return , the good that can be driven could be astonishing .
now , what 's really interesting here is that we 're not thinking our way into a new way of acting ;
we 're acting our way into a new way of thinking .
philanthropy is reorganizing itself before our very eyes .
and even though all of the experiments and all of the big givers don 't yet fulfill this aspiration , i think this is the new zeitgeist : open , big , fast , connected ,
and , let us also hope , long .
we have got to realize that it is going to take a long time to do these things .
if we don 't develop the stamina to stick with things -- whatever it is you pick , stick with it -- all of this stuff is just going to be , you know , a fad .
but i 'm really hopeful .
and i 'm hopeful because it 's not only philanthropy that 's reorganizing itself ,
it 's also whole other portions of the social sector , and of business , that are busy challenging " business as usual . "
and everywhere i go , including here at ted , i feel that there is a new moral hunger that is growing . what we 're seeing is people really wrestling to describe what is this new thing that 's happening .
words like " philanthrocapitalism , " and " natural capitalism , " and " philanthroentrepreneur , " and " venture philanthropy . "
we don 't have a language for it yet .
whatever we call it , it 's new , it 's beginning , and i think it 's gong to quite significant .
and that 's where my imagined future comes in ,
which i am going to call the social singularity .
many of you will realize that i 'm ripping a bit off of the science fiction writer vernor vinge 's notion of a technological singularity , where a number of trends accelerate and converge and come together to create , really , a shockingly new reality .
it may be that the social singularity ahead is the one that we fear the most :
a convergence of catastrophes , of environmental degradation , of weapons of mass destruction , of pandemics , of poverty .
that 's because our ability to confront the problems that we face has not kept pace with our ability to create them .
and as we 've heard here , it is no exaggeration to say that we hold the future of our civilization in our hands as never before .
the question is , is there a positive social singularity ?
is there a frontier for us of how we live together ?
our future doesn 't have to be imagined .
we can create a future where hope and history rhyme .
but we have a problem .
our experience to date , both individually and collectively , hasn 't prepared us for what we 're going to need to do , or who we 're going to need to be .
we are going to need a new generation of citizen leaders willing to commit ourselves to growing and changing and learning as rapidly as possible .
that 's why i have one last thing i want to show you .
this is a photograph taken about 100 years ago of my grandfather and great-grandfather .
this is a newspaper publisher and a banker .
and they were great community leaders .
and , yes , they were great philanthropists .
i keep this photograph close by to me --
it 's in my office --
because i 've always felt a mystical connection to these two men , both of whom i never knew .
and so , in their honor , i want to offer you this blank slide .
and i want you to imagine that this a photograph of you .
and i want you to think about the community that you want to be part of creating . whatever that means to you .
and i want you to imagine that it 's 100 years from now , and your grandchild , or great-grandchild , or niece or nephew or god-child , is looking at this photograph of you .
what is the story you most want for them to tell ?
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / chris _ gerdes _ the _ future _ race _ car _ 150mph _ and _ no _ driver.html
autonomous cars are coming -- and they 're going to drive better than you . chris gerdes reveals how he and his team are developing robotic race cars that can drive at 150 mph while avoiding every possible accident . and yet , in studying the brainwaves of professional racing drivers , gerdes says he has gained a new appreciation for the instincts of professional drivers . < em > < / em >
cars , future , technology
1506
chris gerdes : the future race car -- 150mph , and no driver
so , how many of you have ever gotten behind the wheel of a car when you really shouldn 't have been driving ?
maybe you 're out on the road for a long day , and you just wanted to get home .
you were tired , but you felt you could drive a few more miles .
maybe you thought , i 've had less to drink than everybody else , i should be the one to go home .
or maybe your mind was just entirely elsewhere .
does this sound familiar to you ?
now , in those situations , wouldn 't it be great if there was a button on your dashboard that you could push , and the car would get you home safely ?
now , that 's been the promise of the self-driving car , the autonomous vehicle , and it 's been the dream since at least 1939 , when general motors showcased this idea at their futurama booth at the world 's fair .
now , it 's been one of those dreams that 's always seemed about 20 years in the future .
now , two weeks ago , that dream took a step forward , when the state of nevada granted google 's self-driving car the very first license for an autonomous vehicle , clearly establishing that it 's legal for them to test it on the roads in nevada .
now , california 's considering similar legislation , and this would make sure that the autonomous car is not one of those things that has to stay in vegas .
now , in my lab at stanford , we 've been working on autonomous cars too , but with a slightly different spin on things . you see , we 've been developing robotic race cars , cars that can actually push themselves to the very limits of physical performance .
now , why would we want to do such a thing ?
well , there 's two really good reasons for this .
first , we believe that before people turn over control to an autonomous car , that autonomous car should be at least as good as the very best human drivers .
now , if you 're like me , and the other 70 percent of the population who know that we are above-average drivers , you understand that 's a very high bar .
there 's another reason as well .
just like race car drivers can use all of the friction between the tire and the road , all of the car 's capabilities to go as fast as possible , we want to use all of those capabilities to avoid any accident we can .
now , you may push the car to the limits not because you 're driving too fast , but because you 've hit an icy patch of road , conditions have changed .
in those situations , we want a car that is capable enough to avoid any accident that can physically be avoided .
i must confess , there 's kind of a third motivation as well .
you see , i have a passion for racing .
in the past , i 've been a race car owner , a crew chief and a driving coach , although maybe not at the level that you 're currently expecting .
one of the things that we 've developed in the lab -- we 've developed several vehicles -- is what we believe is the world 's first autonomously drifting car .
it 's another one of those categories where maybe there 's not a lot of competition .
but this is p1 . it 's an entirely student-built electric vehicle , which through using its rear-wheel drive and front-wheel steer-by-wire can drift around corners .
it can get sideways like a rally car driver , always able to take the tightest curve , even on slippery , changing surfaces , never spinning out .
we 've also worked with volkswagen oracle , on shelley , an autonomous race car that has raced at 150 miles an hour through the bonneville salt flats , gone around thunderhill raceway park in the sun , the wind and the rain , and navigated the 153 turns and 12.4 miles of the pikes peak hill climb route in colorado with nobody at the wheel .
i guess it goes without saying that we 've had a lot of fun doing this .
but in fact , there 's something else that we 've developed in the process of developing these autonomous cars .
we have developed a tremendous appreciation for the capabilities of human race car drivers .
as we 've looked at the question of how well do these cars perform , we wanted to compare them to our human counterparts .
and we discovered their human counterparts are amazing .
now , we can take a map of a race track , we can take a mathematical model of a car , and with some iteration , we can actually find the fastest way around that track .
we line that up with data that we record from a professional driver , and the resemblance is absolutely remarkable .
yes , there are subtle differences here , but the human race car driver is able to go out and drive an amazingly fast line , without the benefit of an algorithm that compares the trade-off between going as fast as possible in this corner , and shaving a little bit of time off of the straight over here .
not only that , they 're able to do it lap after lap after lap .
they 're able to go out and consistently do this , pushing the car to the limits every single time .
it 's extraordinary to watch .
you put them in a new car , and after a few laps , they 've found the fastest line in that car , and they 're off to the races .
it really makes you think , we 'd love to know what 's going on inside their brain .
so as researchers , that 's what we decided to find out .
we decided to instrument not only the car , but also the race car driver , to try to get a glimpse into what was going on in their head as they were doing this .
now , this is dr. lene harbott applying electrodes to the head of john morton .
john morton is a former can-am and imsa driver , who 's also a class champion at le mans .
fantastic driver , and very willing to put up with graduate students and this sort of research .
she 's putting electrodes on his head so that we can monitor the electrical activity in john 's brain as he races around the track .
now , clearly we 're not going to put a couple of electrodes on his head and understand exactly what all of his thoughts are on the track .
however , neuroscientists have identified certain patterns that let us tease out some very important aspects of this .
for instance , the resting brain tends to generate a lot of alpha waves .
in contrast , theta waves are associated with a lot of cognitive activity , like visual processing , things where the driver is thinking quite a bit .
now , we can measure this , and we can look at the relative power between the theta waves and the alpha waves .
this gives us a measure of mental workload , how much the driver is actually challenged cognitively at any point along the track .
now , we wanted to see if we could actually record this on the track , so we headed down south to laguna seca .
laguna seca is a legendary raceway about halfway between salinas and monterey .
it has a curve there called the corkscrew .
now , the corkscrew is a chicane , followed by a quick right-handed turn as the road drops three stories .
now , the strategy for driving this as explained to me was , you aim for the bush in the distance , and as the road falls away , you realize it was actually the top of a tree .
all right , so thanks to the revs program at stanford , we were able to take john there and put him behind the wheel of a 1960 porsche abarth carrera .
life is way too short for boring cars .
so , here you see john on the track , he 's going up the hill -- oh ! somebody liked that -- and you can see , actually , his mental workload -- measuring here in the red bar -- you can see his actions as he approaches .
now watch , he has to downshift .
and then he has to turn left .
look for the tree , and down .
not surprisingly , you can see this is a pretty challenging task .
you can see his mental workload spike as he goes through this , as you would expect with something that requires this level of complexity .
but what 's really interesting is to look at areas of the track where his mental workload doesn 't increase .
i 'm going to take you around now to the other side of the track .
turn three . and john 's going to go into that corner and the rear end of the car is going to begin to slide out .
he 's going to have to correct for that with steering .
so watch as john does this here .
watch the mental workload , and watch the steering .
the car begins to slide out , dramatic maneuver to correct it , and no change whatsoever in the mental workload .
not a challenging task .
in fact , entirely reflexive .
now , our data processing on this is still preliminary , but it really seems that these phenomenal feats that the race car drivers are performing are instinctive .
they are things that they have simply learned to do .
it requires very little mental workload for them to perform these amazing feats .
and their actions are fantastic .
this is exactly what you want to do on the steering wheel to catch the car in this situation .
now , this has given us tremendous insight and inspiration for our own autonomous vehicles .
we 've started to ask the question : can we make them a little less algorithmic and a little more intuitive ?
can we take this reflexive action that we see from the very best race car drivers , introduce it to our cars , and maybe even into a system that could get onto your car in the future ?
that would take us a long step along the road to autonomous vehicles that drive as well as the best humans .
but it 's made us think a little bit more deeply as well .
do we want something more from our car than to simply be a chauffeur ?
do we want our car to perhaps be a partner , a coach , someone that can use their understanding of the situation to help us reach our potential ?
can , in fact , the technology not simply replace humans , but allow us to reach the level of reflex and intuition that we 're all capable of ?
so , as we move forward into this technological future , i want you to just pause and think of that for a moment .
what is the ideal balance of human and machine ?
and as we think about that , let 's take inspiration from the absolutely amazing capabilities of the human body and the human mind .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / stefana _ broadbent _ how _ the _ internet _ enables _ intimacy.html
we worry that im , texting , facebook are spoiling human intimacy , but stefana broadbent 's research shows how communication tech is capable of cultivating deeper relationships , bringing love across barriers like distance and workplace rules .
anthropology , humanity , love , psychology , social media , society , technology
680
stefana broadbent : how the internet enables intimacy
i believe that there are new , hidden tensions that are actually happening between people and institutions -- institutions that are the institutions that people inhabit in their daily life : schools , hospitals , workplaces , factories , offices , etc .
and something that i see happening is something that i would like to call a sort of " democratization of intimacy . "
and what do i mean by that ?
i mean that what people are doing is , in fact , they are sort of , with their communication channels , they are breaking an imposed isolation that these institutions are imposing on them .
how are they doing this ? they 're doing it in a very simple way , by calling their mom from work , by iming from their office to their friends , by texting under the desk .
the pictures that you 're seeing behind me are people that i visited in the last few months .
and i asked them to come along with the person they communicate with most .
and somebody brought a boyfriend , somebody a father .
one young woman brought her grandfather .
for 20 years , i 've been looking at how people use channels such as email , the mobile phone , texting , etc . what we 're actually going to see is that , fundamentally , people are communicating on a regular basis with five , six , seven of their most intimate sphere .
now , lets take some data . facebook .
recently some sociologists from facebook -- facebook is the channel that you would expect is the most enlargening of all channels .
and an average user , said cameron marlow , from facebook , has about 120 friends .
but he actually talks to , has two-way exchanges with , about four to six people on a regular base , depending on his gender .
academic research on instant messaging also shows 100 people on buddy lists , but fundamentally people chat with two , three , four -- anyway , less than five .
my own research on cellphones and voice calls shows that 80 percent of the calls are actually made to four people . 80 percent .
and when you go to skype , it 's down to two people .
a lot of sociologists actually are quite disappointed .
i mean , i 've been a bit disappointed sometimes when i saw this data and all this deployment , just for five people .
and some sociologists actually feel that it 's a closure , it 's a cocooning , that we 're disengaging from the public .
and i would actually , i would like to show you that if we actually look at who is doing it , and from where they 're doing it , actually there is an incredible social transformation .
there are three stories that i think are quite good examples .
the first gentleman , he 's a baker . and so he starts working every morning at four o 'clock in the morning .
and around eight o 'clock he sort of sneaks away from his oven , cleans his hands from the flour and calls his wife .
he just wants to wish her a good day , because that 's the start of her day .
and i 've heard this story a number of times .
a young factory worker who works night shifts , who manages to sneak away from the factory floor , where there is cctv by the way , and find a corner , where at 11 o 'clock at night he can call his girlfriend and just say goodnight .
or a mother who , at four o 'clock , suddenly manages to find a corner in the toilet to check that her children are safely home .
then there is another couple , there is a brazilian couple .
they 've lived in italy for a number of years .
they skype with their families a few times a week .
but once a fortnight , they actually put the computer on their dining table , pull out the webcam and actually have dinner with their family in sao paulo . and they have a big event of it .
and i heard this story the first time a couple of years ago from a very modest family of immigrants from kosovo in switzerland .
they had set up a big screen in their living room ,
and every morning they had breakfast with their grandmother .
but danny miller , who is a very good anthropologist who is working on filipina migrant women who leave their children back in the philippines , was telling me about how much parenting is going on through skype , and how much these mothers are engaged with their children through skype .
and then there is the third couple . they are two friends .
they chat to each other every day , a few times a day actually .
and finally , finally , they 've managed to put instant messaging on their computers at work .
and now , obviously , they have it open .
whenever they have a moment they chat to each other .
and this is exactly what we 've been seeing with teenagers and kids doing it in school , under the table , and texting under the table to their friends .
so , none of these cases are unique .
i mean , i could tell you hundreds of them .
but what is really exceptional is the setting .
so , think of the three settings i 've talked to you about : factory , migration , office .
but it could be in a school , it could be an administration , it could be a hospital .
three settings that , if we just step back 15 years , if you just think back 15 years , when you clocked in , when you clocked in to an office , when you clocked in to a factory , there was no contact for the whole duration of the time , there was no contact with your private sphere .
if you were lucky there was a public phone hanging in the corridor or somewhere .
if you were in management , oh , that was a different story .
maybe you had a direct line .
if you were not , you maybe had to go through an operator .
but basically , when you walked into those buildings , the private sphere was left behind you .
and this has become such a norm of our professional lives , such a norm and such an expectation .
and it had nothing to do with technical capability .
the phones were there . but the expectation was once you moved in there your commitment was fully to the task at hand , fully to the people around you .
that was where the focus had to be .
and this has become such a cultural norm that we actually school our children for them to be capable to do this cleavage .
if you think nursery , kindergarten , first years of school are just dedicated to take away the children , to make them used to staying long hours away from their family .
and then the school enacts perfectly well . it mimics perfectly all the rituals that we will find in offices : rituals of entry , rituals of exit , the schedules , the uniforms in this country , things that identify you , team-building activities ,
team building that will allow you to basically be with a random group of kids , or a random group of people that you will have to be with for a number of time .
and of course , the major thing : learn to pay attention , to concentrate and focus your attention .
this only started about 150 years ago .
it only started with the birth of modern bureaucracy , and of industrial revolution .
when people basically had to go somewhere else to work and carry out the work .
and when with modern bureaucracy there was a very rational approach , where there was a clear distinction between the private sphere and the public sphere .
so , until then , basically people were living on top of their trades .
they were living on top of the land they were laboring .
they were living on top of the workshops where they were working .
and if you think , it 's permeated our whole culture , even our cities .
if you think of medieval cities , medieval cities the boroughs all have the names of the guilds and professions that lived there .
now we have sprawling residential suburbias that are well distinct from production areas and commercial areas .
and actually , over these 150 years , there has been a very clear class system that also has emerged .
so the lower the status of the job and of the person carrying out , the more removed he would be from his personal sphere .
people have taken this amazing possibility of actually being in contact all through the day or in all types of situations .
and they are doing it massively .
the pew institute , which produces good data on a regular basis on , for instance , in the states , says that -- and i think that this number is conservative -- 50 percent of anybody with email access at work is actually doing private email from his office .
i really think that the number is conservative .
in my own research , we saw that the peak for private email is actually 11 o 'clock in the morning , whatever the country .
75 percent of people admit doing private conversations from work on their mobile phones .
100 percent are using text .
the point is that this re-appropriation of the personal sphere is not terribly successful with all institutions .
i 'm always surprised the u.s. army sociologists are discussing of the impact for instance , of soldiers in iraq having daily contact with their families .
but there are many institutions that are actually blocking this access .
and every day , every single day , i read news that makes me cringe , like a $ 15 fine to kids in texas , for using , every time they take out their mobile phone in school .
immediate dismissal to bus drivers in new york , if seen with a mobile phone in a hand .
companies blocking access to im or to facebook .
behind issues of security and safety , which have always been the arguments for social control , in fact what is going on is that these institutions are trying to decide who , in fact , has a right to self determine their attention , to decide , whether they should , or not , be isolated .
and they are actually trying to block , in a certain sense , this movement of a greater possibility of intimacy .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / majora _ carter _ 3 _ stories _ of _ local _ ecoactivism.html
the future of green is local -- and entrepreneurial . at tedxmidwest , majora carter brings us the stories of three people who are saving their own communities while saving the planet . call it " hometown security . "
business , community , economics , green
1041
majora carter : 3 stories of local eco-entrepreneurship
so today , i 'm going to tell you about some people who didn 't move out of their neighborhoods .
the first one is happening right here in chicago .
brenda palms-farber was hired to help ex-convicts reenter society and keep them from going back into prison .
currently , taxpayers spend about 60,000 dollars per year sending a person to jail .
we know that two-thirds of them are going to go back .
i find it interesting that , for every one dollar we spend , however , on early childhood education , like head start , we save 17 dollars on stuff like incarceration in the future .
or -- think about it -- that 60,000 dollars is more than what it costs to send one person to harvard as well .
but brenda , not being phased by stuff like that , took a look at her challenge and came up with a not-so-obvious solution : create a business that produces skin care products from honey .
okay , it might be obvious to some of you ; it wasn 't to me .
it 's the basis of growing a form of social innovation that has real potential .
she hired seemingly unemployable men and women to care for the bees , harvest the honey and make value-added products that they marketed themselves , and that were later sold at whole foods .
she combined employment experience and training with life skills they needed , like anger-management and teamwork , and also how to talk to future employers about how their experiences actually demonstrated the lessons that they had learned and their eagerness to learn more .
less than four percent of the folks that went through her program actually go back to jail .
so these young men and women learned job-readiness and life skills through bee keeping and became productive citizens in the process .
talk about a sweet beginning .
now , i 'm going to take you to los angeles ,
and lots of people know that l.a. has its issues .
but i 'm going to talk about l.a. ' s water issues right now .
they have not enough water on most days and too much to handle when it rains .
currently , 20 percent of california 's energy consumption is used to pump water into mostly southern california .
their spending loads , loads , to channel that rainwater out into the ocean when it rains and floods as well .
now andy lipkis is working to help l.a. cut infrastructure costs associated with water management and urban heat island -- linking trees , people and technology to create a more livable city .
all that green stuff actually naturally absorbs storm water , also helps cool our cities .
because , come to think about it , do you really want air-conditioning , or is it a cooler room that you want ?
how you get it shouldn 't make that much of a difference .
so a few years ago , l.a. county decided that they needed to spend 2.5 billion dollars to repair the city schools .
and andy and his team discovered that they were going to spend 200 million of those dollars on asphalt to surround the schools themselves .
and by presenting a really strong economic case , they convinced the l.a. government that replacing that asphalt with trees and other greenery , that the schools themselves would save the system more on energy than they spend on horticultural infrastructure .
so ultimately , 20 million square feet of asphalt was replaced or avoided , and electrical consumption for air-conditioning went down , while employment for people to maintain those grounds went up , resulting in a net-savings to the system , but also healthier students and schools system employees as well .
now judy bonds is a coal miner 's daughter .
her family has eight generations in a town called whitesville , west virginia .
and if anyone should be clinging to the former glory of the coal mining history , and of the town , it should be judy .
but the way coal is mined right now is different from the deep mines that her father and her father 's father would go down into and that employed essentially thousands and thousands of people .
now , two dozen men can tear down a mountain in several months , and only for about a few years ' worth of coal .
that kind of technology is called " mountaintop removal . "
it can make a mountain go from this to this in a few short months .
just imagine that the air surrounding these places -- it 's filled with the residue of explosives and coal .
when we visited , it gave some of the people we were with this strange little cough after being only there for just a few hours or so -- not just miners , but everybody .
and judy saw her landscape being destroyed and her water poisoned .
and the coal companies just move on after the mountain was emptied , leaving even more unemployment in their wake .
but she also saw the difference in potential wind energy on an intact mountain , and one that was reduced in elevation by over 2,000 feet .
three years of dirty energy with not many jobs , or centuries of clean energy with the potential for developing expertise and improvements in efficiency based on technical skills , and developing local knowledge about how to get the most out of that region 's wind .
she calculated the up-front cost and the payback over time , and it 's a net-plus on so many levels for the local , national and global economy .
it 's a longer payback than mountaintop removal , but the wind energy actually pays back forever .
now mountaintop removal pays very little money to the locals , and it gives them a lot of misery .
the water is turned into goo .
most people are still unemployed , leading to most of the same kinds of social problems that unemployed people in inner cities also experience -- drug and alcohol abuse , domestic abuse , teen pregnancy and poor heath , as well .
now judy and i -- i have to say -- totally related to each other .
not quite an obvious alliance .
i mean , literally , her hometown is called whitesville , west virginia .
i mean , they are not -- they ain 't competing for the birthplace of hip hop title or anything like that .
but the back of my t-shirt , the one that she gave me , says , " save the endangered hillbillies . "
so homegirls and hillbillies we got it together and totally understand that this is what it 's all about .
but just a few months ago , judy was diagnosed with stage-three lung cancer .
yeah .
and it has since moved to her bones and her brain .
and i just find it so bizarre that she 's suffering from the same thing that she tried so hard to protect people from .
but her dream of coal river mountain wind is her legacy .
and she might not get to see that mountaintop .
but rather than writing yet some kind of manifesto or something , she 's leaving behind a business plan to make it happen .
that 's what my homegirl is doing .
so i 'm so proud of that .
but these three people don 't know each other , but they do have an awful lot in common .
they 're all problem solvers , and they 're just some of the many examples that i really am privileged to see , meet and learn from in the examples of the work that i do now .
i was really lucky to have them all featured on my corporation for public radio radio show called thepromisedland.org .
now they 're all very practical visionaries .
they take a look at the demands that are out there -- beauty products , healthy schools , electricity -- and how the money 's flowing to meet those demands .
and when the cheapest solutions involve reducing the number of jobs , you 're left with unemployed people , and those people aren 't cheap .
in fact , they make up some of what i call the most expensive citizens , and they include generationally impoverished , traumatized vets returning from the middle east , people coming out of jail .
and for the veterans in particular , the v.a. said there 's a six-fold increase in mental health pharmaceuticals by vets since 2003 .
i think that number 's probably going to go up .
they 're not the largest number of people , but they are some of the most expensive --
and in terms of the likelihood for domestic abuse , drug and alcohol abuse , poor performance by their kids in schools and also poor health as a result of stress .
so these three guys all understand how to productively channel dollars through our local economies to meet existing market demands , reduce the social problems that we have now and prevent new problems in the future .
and there are plenty of other examples like that .
one problem : waste handling and unemployment .
even when we think or talk about recycling , lots of recyclable stuff ends up getting incinerated or in landfills and leaving many municipalities , diversion rates -- they leave much to be recycled .
and where is this waste handled ? usually in poor communities .
and we know that eco-industrial business , these kinds of business models -- there 's a model in europe called the eco-industrial park , where either the waste of one company is the raw material for another , or you use recycled materials to make goods that you can actually use and sell .
we can create these local markets and incentives for recycled materials to be used as raw materials for manufacturing .
and in my hometown , we actually tried to do one of these in the bronx , but our mayor decided what he wanted to see was a jail on that same spot .
fortunately -- because we wanted to create hundreds of jobs -- but after many years , the city wanted to build a jail . they 've since abandoned that project , thank goodness .
another problem : unhealthy food systems and unemployment .
working-class and poor urban americans are not benefiting economically from our current food system .
it relies too much on transportation , chemical fertilization , big use of water and also refrigeration .
mega agricultural operations often are responsible for poisoning our waterways and our land , and it produces this incredibly unhealthy product that costs us billions in healthcare and lost productivity .
and so we know " urban ag " is a big buzz topic this time of the year , but it 's mostly gardening , which has some value in community building -- lots of it -- but it 's not in terms of creating jobs or for food production .
the numbers just aren 't there .
part of my work now is really laying the groundwork to integrate urban ag and rural food systems to hasten the demise of the 3,000-mile salad by creating a national brand of urban-grown produce in every city , that uses regional growing power and augments it with indoor growing facilities , owned and operated by small growers , where now there are only consumers .
this can support seasonal farmers around metro areas who are losing out because they really can 't meet the year-round demand for produce .
it 's not a competition with rural farm ; it 's actually reinforcements .
it allies in a really positive and economically viable food system .
the goal is to meet the cities ' institutional demands for hospitals , senior centers , schools , daycare centers , and produce a network of regional jobs , as well .
this is smart infrastructure .
and how we manage our built environment affects the health and well-being of people every single day .
our municipalities , rural and urban , play the operational course of infrastructure -- things like waste disposal , energy demand , as well as social costs of unemployment , drop-out rates , incarceration rates and the impacts of various public health costs .
smart infrastructure can provide cost-saving ways for municipalities to handle both infrastructure and social needs .
and we want to shift the systems that open the doors for people who were formerly tax burdens to become part of the tax base .
and imagine a national business model that creates local jobs and smart infrastructure to improve local economic stability .
so i 'm hoping you can see a little theme here .
these examples indicate a trend .
i haven 't created it , and it 's not happening by accident .
i 'm noticing that it 's happening all over the country , and the good news is that it 's growing .
and we all need to be invested in it .
it is an essential pillar to this country 's recovery .
and i call it " hometown security . "
the recession has us reeling and fearful , and there 's something in the air these days that is also very empowering .
it 's a realization that we are the key to our own recovery .
now is the time for us to act in our own communities where we think local and we act local .
and when we do that , our neighbors -- be they next-door , or in the next state , or in the next country -- will be just fine .
the sum of the local is the global .
hometown security means rebuilding our natural defenses , putting people to work , restoring our natural systems .
hometown security means creating wealth here at home , instead of destroying it overseas . tackling social and environmental problems at the same time with the same solution yields great cost savings , wealth generation and national security .
many great and inspiring solutions have been generated across america .
the challenge for us now is to identify and support countless more .
now , hometown security is about taking care of your own , but it 's not like the old saying , " charity begins at home . "
i recently read a book called " love leadership " by john hope bryant .
and it 's about leading in a world that really does seem to be operating on the basis of fear .
and reading that book made me reexamine that theory because i need to explain what i mean by that .
see , my dad was a great , great man in many ways .
he grew up in the segregated south , escaped lynching and all that during some really hard times , and he provided a really stable home for me and my siblings and a whole bunch of other people that fell on hard times .
but , like all of us , he had some problems .
and his was gambling , compulsively .
to him that phrase , " charity begins at home , " meant that my payday -- or someone else 's -- would just happen to coincide with his lucky day .
so you need to help him out .
and sometimes i would loan him money from my after-school or summer jobs , and he always had the great intention of paying me back with interest , of course , after he hit it big .
and he did sometimes , believe it or not , at a racetrack in los angeles -- one reason to love l.a. -- back in the 1940s .
he made 15,000 dollars cash and bought the house that i grew up in .
so i 'm not that unhappy about that .
but listen , i did feel obligated to him , and i grew up -- then i grew up .
and i 'm a grown woman now ,
and i have learned a few things along the way .
to me , charity often is just about giving , because you 're supposed to , or because it 's what you 've always done , or it 's about giving until it hurts .
i 'm about providing the means to build something that will grow and intensify its original investment and not just require greater giving next year -- i 'm not trying to feed the habit .
i spent some years watching how good intentions for community empowerment , that were supposed to be there to support the community and empower it , actually left people in the same , if not worse , position that they were in before .
and over the past 20 years , we 've spent record amounts of philanthropic dollars on social problems , yet educational outcomes , malnutrition , incarceration , obesity , diabetes , income disparity , they 've all gone up with some exceptions -- in particular , infant mortality among people in poverty -- but it 's a great world that we 're bringing them into as well .
and i know a little bit about these issues , because , for many years , i spent a long time in the non-profit industrial complex ,
and i 'm a recovering executive director , two years clean .
but during that time , i realized that it was about projects and developing them on the local level that really was going to do the right thing for our communities .
but i really did struggle for financial support .
the greater our success , the less money came in from foundations .
and i tell you , being on the ted stage and winning a macarthur in the same exact year gave everyone the impression that i had arrived .
and by the time i 'd moved on , i was actually covering a third of my agency 's budget deficit with speaking fees .
and i think because early on , frankly , my programs were just a little bit ahead of their time .
but since then , the park that was just a dump and was featured at a ted2006 talk became this little thing .
but i did in fact get married in it .
over here .
there goes my dog who led me to the park in my wedding .
the south bronx greenway was also just a drawing on the stage back in 2006 .
since then , we got about 50 million dollars in stimulus package money to come and get here .
and we love this , because i love construction now , because we 're watching these things actually happen .
so i want everyone to understand the critical importance of shifting charity into enterprise .
i started my firm to help communities across the country realize their own potential to improve everything about the quality of life for their people .
hometown security is next on my to-do list .
what we need are people who see the value in investing in these types of local enterprises , who will partner with folks like me to identify the growth trends and climate adaptation as well as understand the growing social costs of business as usual .
we need to work together to embrace and repair our land , repair our power systems and repair ourselves .
it 's time to stop building the shopping malls , the prisons , the stadiums and other tributes to all of our collective failures .
it is time that we start building living monuments to hope and possibility .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / britta _ riley _ a _ garden _ in _ my _ apartment.html
britta riley wanted to grow her own food . so she and her friends developed a system for growing plants in discarded plastic bottles -- researching , testing and tweaking the system using social media , trying many variations at once and quickly arriving at the optimal system . call it distributed diy . and the results ? delicious .
collaboration , design , food
1284
britta riley : a garden in my apartment
i , like many of you , am one of the two billion people on earth who live in cities .
and there are days -- i don 't know about the rest of you guys -- but there are days when i palpably feel how much i rely on other people for pretty much everything in my life .
and some days , that can even be a little scary .
but what i 'm here to talk to you about today is how that same interdependence is actually an extremely powerful social infrastructure that we can actually harness to help heal some of our deepest civic issues , if we apply open source collaboration .
a couple of years ago , i read an article by new york times writer michael pollan in which he argued that growing even some of our own food is one of the best things that we can do for the environment .
now at the time that i was reading this , it was the middle of the winter and i definitely did not have room for a lot of dirt in my new york city apartment .
so i was basically just willing to settle for just reading the next wired magazine and finding out how the experts were going to figure out how to solve all these problems for us in the future .
but that was actually exactly the point that michael pollan was making in this article -- was it 's precisely when we hand over the responsibility for all these things to specialists that we cause the kind of messes that we see with the food system .
so , i happen to know a little bit from my own work about how nasa has been using hydroponics to explore growing food in space .
and you can actually get optimal nutritional yield by running a kind of high-quality liquid soil over plants ' root systems .
now to a vegetable plant , my apartment has got to be about as foreign as outer space .
but i can offer some natural light and year-round climate control .
fast-forward two years later : we now have window farms , which are vertical , hydroponic platforms for food-growing indoors .
and the way it works is that there 's a pump at the bottom , which periodically sends some of this liquid nutrient solution up to the top , which then trickles down through plants ' root systems that are suspended in clay pellets -- so there 's no dirt involved .
now light and temperature vary with each window 's microclimate , so a window farm requires a farmer , and she must decide what kind of crops she is going to put in her window farm , and whether she is going to feed her food organically .
back at the time , a window farm was no more than a technically complex idea that was going to require a lot of testing .
and i really wanted it to be an open project , because hydroponics is one of the fastest growing areas of patenting in the united states right now and could possibly become another area like monsanto , where we have a lot of corporate intellectual property in the way of people 's food .
so i decided that , instead of creating a product , what i was going to do was open this up to a whole bunch of co-developers .
the first few systems that we created , they kind of worked .
we were actually able to grow about a salad a week in a typical new york city apartment window .
and we were able to grow cherry tomatoes and cucumbers , all kinds of stuff .
but the first few systems were these leaky , loud power-guzzlers that martha stewart would definitely never have approved .
so to bring on more co-developers , what we did was we created a social media site on which we published the designs , we explained how they worked , and we even went so far as to point out everything that was wrong with these systems .
and then we invited people all over the world to build them and experiment with us .
so actually now on this website , we have 18,000 people .
and we have window farms all over the world .
what we 're doing is what nasa or a large corporation would call r & d , or research and development .
but what we call it is r & d-i-y , or research and develop it yourself .
so for example , jackson came along and suggested that we use air pumps instead of water pumps .
it took building a whole bunch of systems to get it right , but once we did , we were able to cut our carbon footprint nearly in half .
tony in chicago has been taking on growing experiments , like lots of other window farmers , and he 's been able to get his strawberries to fruit for nine months of the year in low-light conditions by simply changing out the organic nutrients .
and window farmers in finland have been customizing their window farms for the dark days of the finnish winters by outfitting them with led grow lights that they 're now making open source and part of the project .
so window farms have been evolving through a rapid versioning process similar to software .
and with every open source project , the real benefit is the interplay between the specific concerns of people customizing their systems for their own particular concerns and the universal concerns .
so my core team and i are able to concentrate on the improvements that really benefit everyone .
and we 're able to look out for the needs of newcomers .
so for do-it-yourselfers , we provide free , very well-tested instructions so that anyone , anywhere around the world , can build one of these systems for free .
and there 's a patent pending on these systems as well that 's held by the community .
and to fund the project , we partner to create products that we then sell to schools and to individuals who don 't have time to build their own systems .
now within our community , a certain culture has appeared .
in our culture , it is better to be a tester who supports someone else 's idea than it is to be just the idea guy .
what we get out of this project is we get support for our own work , as well as an experience of actually contributing to the environmental movement in a way other than just screwing in new light bulbs .
but i think that eileen expresses best what we really get out of this , which is the actual joy of collaboration .
so she expresses here what it 's like to see someone halfway across the world having taken your idea , built upon it and then acknowledging you for contributing .
if we really want to see the kind of wide consumer behavior change that we 're all talking about as environmentalists and food people , maybe we just need to ditch the term " consumer " and get behind the people who are doing stuff .
open source projects tend to have a momentum of their own .
and what we 're seeing is that r & d-i-y has moved beyond just window farms and leds into solar panels and aquaponic systems .
and we 're building upon innovations of generations who went before us .
and we 're looking ahead at generations who really need us to retool our lives now .
so we ask that you join us in rediscovering the value of citizens united , and to declare that we are all still pioneers .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / nicholas _ negroponte _ on _ one _ laptop _ per _ child _ two _ years _ on.html
nicholas negroponte talks about how one laptop per child is doing , two years in . speaking at the eg conference while the first xo laptops roll off the production line , he recaps the controversies and recommits to the goals of this far-reaching project .
one laptop per child , activism , computers , design , technology
288
nicholas negroponte on one laptop per child , two years on
most people don 't know that when i went to high school in this country -- i applied for university at a time when i was convinced i was going to be an artist and be a sculptor .
and i came from a very privileged background . i was very lucky .
my family was wealthy , and my father believed in one thing , and that was to give us all as much education as we wanted .
and i announced i wanted to be a sculptor in paris .
and he was a clever man . he sort of said , " well , that 's ok , but you 've done very well in your math sats . " in fact , i 'd got an 800 . and he thought i did very well -- and i did , too -- in the arts :
this was my passion .
and he said " if you go to mit , " to which i had been given early admission , " i will pay for every year you 're at mit , in graduate or undergraduate -- as much as you want -- i will pay for an equal number of years for you to live in paris . " and i thought that was the best deal in town , so i accepted it immediately .
and i decided that if i was good in art , and i was good in mathematics , i 'd study architecture , which was the blending of the two .
i went and told my headmaster that , at prep school .
and i said to him what i was doing , that i was going to go study architecture because it was art and mathematics put together .
he said to me something that just went completely over my head .
he said , " you know , i like grey suits , and i like pin-striped suits , but i don 't like grey pin-striped suits . " and i thought , " what a turkey this guy is , " and i went off to mit .
i studied architecture , then did a second degree in architecture , and then actually quickly realized that it wasn 't architecture .
that really , the mixing of art and science was computers ,
and that that really was the place to bring both , and enjoyed a career doing that .
and probably , if i were to fill out jim citrin 's scale , i 'd put 100 percent on the side of the equation where you spend time making it possible for others to be creative .
and after doing this for a long time , and the media lab passing the baton on , i thought , " well , maybe it 's time for me to do a project . something that would be important , but also something that would take advantage of all of these privileges that one had . " and in the case of the media lab , knowing a lot of people ,
knowing people who were either executives or wealthy , and also not having , in my own case , a career to worry about anymore .
my career , i mean , i 'd done my career .
didn 't have to worry about earning money . didn 't have to worry about what people thought about me .
and i said , " boy , let 's really do something that takes advantage of all these features , " and thought that if we could address education , by leveraging the children , and bringing to the world the access of the computers , that that was really the thing we should do .
never shown this picture before , and probably going to be sued for it . it 's taken at three o 'clock in the morning , without the permission of the company .
it 's about two weeks old . there they are , folks .
if you look at the picture , you 'll see they 're stacked up .
those are conveyor belts that go around .
this is one of the conveyor belts with the thing going by , but then you 'll see the ones up above .
what happens is , they burn into flash memory the software , and then test them for a few hours .
but you 've got to have the thing moving on the assembly line , because it 's constant .
so they go around in this loop , which is why you see them up there .
so this was great for us because it was a real turning point . but it goes back .
this picture was taken in 1982 , just before the ibm pc was even announced .
seymour papert and i were bringing computers to schools
and developing nations at a time when it was way ahead of itself .
but one thing we learned was that these kids can absolutely jump into it just the same way as our kids do here .
and when people tell me , " who 's going to teach the teachers to teach the kids ? " i say to myself , " what planet do you come from ? " okay , there 's not a person in this room -- i don 't care how techie you are -- there 's not a person in this room that doesn 't give their laptop or cell phone to a kid to help them debug it . ok ?
we all need help , even those of us who are very seasoned .
this picture of seymour -- 25 years ago . seymour made a very simple observation in 1968 , and then basically presented it in 1970 -- april 11 to be precise -- called " teaching children thinking . " what he observed was that kids who write computer programs understand things differently , and when they debug the programs , they come the closest to learning about learning .
that was very important , and in some sense , we 've lost that .
kids don 't program enough and boy , if there 's anything i hope this brings back , it 's programming to kids .
it 's really important . using applications is ok , but programming is absolutely fundamental .
this is being launched with three languages in it : squeak , logo , and a third , that i 've never even seen before .
the point being , this is going to be very , very intensive on the programming side .
this photograph is very important because it 's much later .
this is in the early 2000s . my son , dimitri -- who 's here , many of you know dimitri -- went to cambodia , set up this school that we had built , just as the school connected it to the internet .
and these kids had their laptops . but it was really what spirited this , plus the influence of joe and others . we started one laptop per child .
this is the same village in cambodia , just a couple of months ago .
these kids are real pros . there were just 7,000 machines out there being tested by kids . being a nonprofit is absolutely fundamental .
everybody advised me not to be a nonprofit , but they were all wrong .
and the reason being a nonprofit is important is actually twofold .
there are many reasons , but the two that merit the little bit of time is : one , the clarity of purpose is there . the moral purpose is clear .
i can see any head of state , any executive i want , at any time , because i 'm not selling laptops . ok ? i have no shareholders .
whether we sell , it doesn 't make any difference whatsoever . the clarity of purpose is absolutely critical . and the second is very counterintuitive -- you can get the best people in the world .
if you look at our professional services , including search firms , including communications , including legal services , including banking , they 're all pro bono . and it 's not to save money .
we 've got money in the bank . it 's because you get the best people .
you get the people who are doing it because they believe in the mission , and they 're the best people .
we couldn 't afford to hire a cfo . we put out a job description for a cfo at zero salary , and we had a queue of people .
it allows you to team up with people . the u.n. ' s not going to be our partner if we 're profit making . so announcing this with kofi annan was very important , and the u.n. allowed us to basically reach all the countries . and this was the machine we were showing before i met yves behar .
and while this machine in some sense is silly , in retrospect , it actually served a very important purpose .
that pencil-yellow crank was remembered by everybody .
everybody remembered the pencil-yellow crank . it 's different .
it was getting its power in a different way . it 's kind of childlike .
even though this wasn 't the direction we went because the crank -- it really is stupid to have it on board , by the way .
in spite of what some people in the press don 't get it , didn 't understand it , we didn 't take it off because we didn 't want to do -- having it on the laptop itself is really not what you want .
you want a separate thing , like the ac adaptor .
i didn 't bring one with me , but they really work much better off-board .
and then , i could tell you lots about the laptop , but i decided on just four things .
just keep in mind -- because there are other people , including bill gates , who said , " gee , you 've got a real computer . " that computer is unlike anything you 've had , and does things -- there are four of them -- that you don 't come close to . and it 's very important to be low power , and i hope that 's picked up more by the industry .
that the reason that you want to be below two watts is that 's roughly what you can generate with your upper body .
dual-mode display -- that sunlight display 's fantastic .
we were using it at lunch today in the sunlight , and the more sunlight the better .
and that was really critical . the mesh network , it 'll become commonplace .
and of course , " rugged " goes without saying .
and the reason i think design matters isn 't because i wanted to go to art school .
and by the way , when i graduated from mit , i thought the worst and silliest thing to do would be to go to paris for six years .
so , i didn 't do that . but design matters for a number of reasons .
the most important being that it is the best way to make an inexpensive product .
most people make inexpensive products by taking cheap design , cheap labor , cheap components , and making a cheap laptop .
and , in english , the word " cheap " has a double meaning , which is really appropriate ,
because it 's cheap , in the pejorative sense , as well as inexpensive .
but if you take a different approach , and you think of very large-scale integration , very advanced materials , very advanced manufacturing -- so you 're pouring chemicals in one end , ipods are spewing out the other -- and really cool design , that 's what we wanted to do .
and i can race through these and save a lot of time because yves and i obviously didn 't compare notes .
these are his slides , and so i don 't have to talk about them .
but it was really , to us , very important as a strategy .
it wasn 't just to kind of make it cute , because somebody -- you know , good design is very important .
yves showed one of the power-generating devices .
the mesh network , the reason i -- and i won 't go into it in great detail -- but when we deliver laptops to kids in the remotest and poorest parts of the world , they 're connected . there 's not just laptops .
and so , we have to drop in satellite dishes . we put in generators .
it 's a lot of stuff that goes behind these . these can talk to each other .
if you 're in a desert , they can talk to each other about two kilometers apart .
if you 're in the jungle , it 's about 500 meters . so if a kid bicycles home , or walks a few miles , they 're going to be off the grid , so to speak .
they 're not going to be near another laptop , so you have to nail these onto a tree , and sort of , get it .
you don 't call verizon or sprint . you build your own network .
and that 's very important , the user interface .
we are launching with 18 keyboards . english is by far the minority .
latin is relatively rare , too . you just look at some of the languages .
i 'm willing to suspect some of you hadn 't even heard of them before .
is there anybody in the room , one person , unless you work with olpc , is there anybody in the room that can tell me what language the keyboard is that 's on the screen ? there 's only one hand -- so you get it .
yes , you 're right . he 's right . it 's amharic , it 's ethiopian . in ethiopia , there 's never been a keyboard .
there is no keyboard standard because there 's no market .
and this is the big difference .
again , when you 're a nonprofit , you look at children as a mission , not as a market .
so we went to ethiopia , and we helped them make a keyboard .
and this will become the standard ethiopian keyboard .
so what i want to end with is sort of what we 're doing to roll it out .
and we changed strategy completely . i decided at the beginning -- it was a pretty good thing to decide in the beginning , it 's not what we 're doing now -- is to go to six countries .
big countries , one of them is not so big , but it 's rich .
here 's the six . we went to the six , and in each case the head of state said he would do it , he 'd do a million .
in the case of qaddafi , he 'd do 1.2 million , and that they would launch it .
we thought , this is exactly the right strategy , get it out , and then the little countries could sort of piggyback on these big countries .
and so i went to each of those countries at least six times , met with the head of state probably two or three times .
in each case , got the ministers , went through a lot of the stuff .
this was a period in my life where i was traveling 330 days per year .
not something you 'd envy or want to do .
in the case of libya , it was a lot of fun meeting qaddafi in his tent .
the camel smells were unbelievable .
and it was 45 degrees c. i mean , this was not what you 'd call a cool experience . and former countries -- i say former , because none of them really came through this summer --
there was a big difference between getting a head of state to have a photo opportunity , make a press release . so we went to smaller ones . uruguay , bless their hearts .
small country , not so rich . president said he 'd do it , and guess what ?
he did do it . the tender had nothing in it that related to us , nothing specific about sunlight-readable , mesh-network , low-power , but just a vanilla laptop proposal .
and guess what ? we won it hands down .
when it was announced that they were going to do every child in uruguay , the first 100,000 , boom , went to olpc .
the next day -- the next day , not even 24 hours had passed -- in peru , the president of peru said , " we 'll do 250 . " and boom , a little domino effect .
the president of rwanda stepped in and said he would do it .
the president of ethiopia said he would do it .
and boom , boom , boom . the president of mongolia .
and so what happens is , these things start to happen with these countries --
still not enough .
add up all those countries , it didn 't quite get to thing , so we said , " let 's start a program in the united states . " so , end of august , early september , we decide to do this . we announced it near the middle , end --
just when the clinton initiative was taking place .
we thought that was a good time to announce it .
launched it on the 12 of november .
we said it would be just for a short period until the 26 . we 've extended it until the 31 .
and the " give one , get one " program is really important because it got a lot of people absolutely interested .
the first day it was just wild . and then we said , " well , let 's get people to give many . not just one , and get one , but maybe give 100 , give 1,000 . " and that 's where you come in .
and that 's where i think it 's very important . i don 't want you all to go out and buy 400 dollars worth of laptops . okay ? do it , but that 's not going to help . okay ?
if everybody in this room goes out tonight and orders one of these things for 400 dollars , whatever it is , 300 people in the room doing it -- yeah , great .
i want you do something else .
and it 's not to go out and buy 100 or 1,000 , though , i invite you to do that , and 10,000 would be even better .
tell people about it ! it 's got to become viral , ok ?
use your mailing lists . people in this room have extraordinary mailing lists .
get your friends to give one , get one .
and if each one of you sends it to 300 or 400 people , that would be fantastic .
i won 't dwell on the pricing at all .
just to say that when you do the " give one , get one , " a lot of press is a bit about , " they didn 't make it , it 's 188 dollars , it 's not 100 . " it will be 100 in two years . it will go below 100 .
we 've pledged not to add features , but to bring that price down .
but it was the countries that wanted it to go up , and we let them push it up for all sorts of reasons . so what you can do -- i 've just said it . don 't just give one , get one .
i just want to end with one last one . this one is not even the first kids got their laptops . they got them by ship , and i 'm talking now about 7,000 , 8,000 at a time went out this week .
they went to uruguay , peru , mexico .
and it 's been slow coming , and we 're only making about 5,000 a week , but we hope , we hope , sometime in next year , maybe by the middle of the year , to hit a million a month . now put that number , and a million isn 't so much . it 's not a big number .
we 're selling a billion cell phones worldwide this year .
but a million a month in laptop-land is a big number .
and the world production today , everybody combined , making laptops , is five million a month . so i 'm standing here telling you that sometime next year , we 're going to make 20 percent of the world production .
and if we do that , there are going to be a lot of lucky kids out there .
and we hope if you have eg two years from now , or whenever you have it again , i won 't have bad breath , and i will be invited back , and will have , hopefully by then , maybe 100 million out there to children .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / rodney _ brooks _ on _ robots.html
in this prophetic talk from 2003 , roboticist rodney brooks talks about how robots are going to work their way into our lives -- starting with toys and moving into household chores ... and beyond .
design , humanity , intelligence , robots , singularity , technology
355
rodney brooks says robots will invade our lives
what i want to tell you about today is how i see robots invading our lives at multiple levels , over multiple timescales .
and when i look out in the future , i can 't imagine a world , 500 years from now , where we don 't have robots everywhere . assuming -- despite all the dire predictions from many people about our future -- assuming we 're still around , i can 't imagine the world not being populated with robots .
and then the question is , well , if they 're going to be here in 500 years , are they going to be everywhere sooner than that ?
are they going to be around in 50 years ?
yeah , i think that 's pretty likely -- there 's going to be lots of robots everywhere .
and in fact i think that 's going to be a lot sooner than that .
i think we 're sort of on the cusp of robots becoming common , and i think we 're sort of around 1978 or 1980 in personal computer years , where the first few robots are starting to appear .
computers sort of came around through games and toys .
and you know , the first computer most people had in the house may have been a computer to play pong , a little microprocessor embedded , and then other games that came after that .
and we 're starting to see that same sort of thing with robots : lego mindstorms , furbies -- who here -- did anyone here have a furby ?
yeah , there 's 38 million of them sold worldwide .
they are pretty common . and they 're a little tiny robot , a simple robot with some sensors ,
a little bit of processing actuation .
on the right there is another robot doll , who you could get a couple of years ago .
and just as in the early days , when there was a lot of sort of amateur interaction over computers , you can now get various hacking kits , how-to-hack books .
and on the left there is a platform from evolution robotics , where you put a pc on , and you program this thing with a gui to wander around your house and do various stuff .
and then there 's a higher price point sort of robot toys -- the sony aibo . and on the right there , is one that the nec developed , the papero , which i don 't think they 're going to release .
but nevertheless , those sorts of things are out there .
and we 've seen , over the last two or three years , lawn-mowing robots , husqvarna on the bottom , friendly robotics on top there , an israeli company .
and then in the last 12 months or so we 've started to see a bunch of home-cleaning robots appear .
the top left one is a very nice home-cleaning robot from a company called dyson , in the u.k. except it was so expensive -- 3,500 dollars -- they didn 't release it .
but at the bottom left , you see electrolux , which is on sale .
another one from karcher .
at the bottom right is one that i built in my lab about 10 years ago , and we finally turned that into a product .
and let me just show you that .
we 're going to give this away i think , chris said , after the talk .
this is a robot that you can go out and buy , and that will clean up your floor .
and it starts off sort of just going around in ever-increasing circles .
if it hits something -- you people see that ?
now it 's doing wall-following , it 's following around my feet to clean up around me . let 's see , let 's -- oh , who stole my rice krispies ? they stole my rice krispies ! don 't worry , relax , no , relax , it 's a robot , it 's smart !
see , the three-year-old kids , they don 't worry about it .
it 's grown-ups that get really upset .
we 'll just put some crap here .
okay .
i don 't know if you see -- so , i put a bunch of rice krispies there , i put some pennies , let 's just shoot it at that , see if it cleans up .
yeah , ok . so -- we 'll leave that for later .
part of the trick was building a better cleaning mechanism , actually ; the intelligence on board was fairly simple .
and that 's true with a lot of robots .
we 've all , i think , become , sort of computational chauvinists , and think that computation is everything , but the mechanics still matter .
here 's another robot , the packbot , that we 've been building for a bunch of years .
it 's a military surveillance robot , to go in ahead of troops -- looking at caves , for instance .
but we had to make it fairly robust , much more robust than the robots we build in our labs .
on board that robot is a pc running linux .
it can withstand a 400g shock . the robot has local intelligence : it can flip itself over , can get itself into communication range , can go upstairs by itself , et cetera .
okay , so it 's doing local navigation there .
a soldier gives it a command to go upstairs , and it does .
that was not a controlled descent .
now it 's going to head off .
and the big breakthrough for these robots , really , was september 11th .
we had the robots down at the world trade center late that evening .
couldn 't do a lot in the main rubble pile , things were just too -- there was nothing left to do .
but we did go into all the surrounding buildings that had been evacuated , and searched for possible survivors in the buildings that were too dangerous to go into .
let 's run this video .
reporter : ... battlefield companions are helping to reduce the combat risks .
nick robertson has that story .
rodney brooks : can we have another one of these ?
okay , good .
so , this is a corporal who had seen a robot two weeks previously .
he 's sending robots into caves , looking at what 's going on .
the robot 's being totally autonomous .
the worst thing that 's happened in the cave so far was one of the robots fell down ten meters .
so one year ago , the us military didn 't have these robots .
now they 're on active duty in afghanistan every day .
and that 's one of the reasons they say a robot invasion is happening .
there 's a sea change happening in how -- where technology 's going .
thanks .
and over the next couple of months , we 're going to be sending robots in production down producing oil wells to get that last few years of oil out of the ground .
very hostile environments , 150  c , 10,000 psi .
autonomous robots going down , doing this sort of work .
but robots like this , they 're a little hard to program .
how , in the future , are we going to program our robots and make them easier to use ?
and i want to actually use a robot here -- a robot named chris -- stand up . yeah . okay .
come over here . now notice , he thinks robots have to be a bit stiff .
he sort of does that . but i 'm going to -- chris anderson : i 'm just british . rb : oh .
i 'm going to show this robot a task . it 's a very complex task .
now notice , he nodded there , he was giving me some indication he was understanding the flow of communication .
and if i 'd said something completely bizarre he would have looked askance at me , and regulated the conversation .
so now i brought this up in front of him .
i 'd looked at his eyes , and i saw his eyes looked at this bottle top .
and i 'm doing this task here , and he 's checking up .
his eyes are going back and forth up to me , to see what i 'm looking at -- so we 've got shared attention .
and so i do this task , and he looks , and he looks to me to see what 's happening next . and now i 'll give him the bottle , and we 'll see if he can do the task . can you do that ?
okay . he 's pretty good . yeah . good , good , good .
i didn 't show you how to do that .
now see if you can put it back together .
and he thinks a robot has to be really slow .
good robot , that 's good .
so we saw a bunch of things there .
we saw when we 're interacting , we 're trying to show someone how to do something , we direct their visual attention .
the other thing communicates their internal state to us , whether he 's understanding or not , regulates a social interaction .
there was shared attention looking at the same sort of thing , and recognizing socially communicated reinforcement at the end .
and we 've been trying to put that into our lab robots because we think this is how you 're going to want to interact with robots in the future .
i just want to show you one technical diagram here .
the most important thing for building a robot that you can interact with socially is its visual attention system .
because what it pays attention to is what it 's seeing and interacting with , and what you 're understanding what it 's doing .
so in the videos i 'm about to show you , you 're going to see a visual attention system on a robot which has -- it looks for skin tone in hsv space , so it works across all human colorings .
it looks for highly saturated colors , from toys .
and it looks for things that move around .
and it weights those together into an attention window , and it looks for the highest-scoring place -- the stuff where the most interesting stuff is happening --
and that is what its eyes then segue to .
and it looks right at that .
at the same time , some top-down sort of stuff : might decide that it 's lonely and look for skin tone , or might decide that it 's bored and look for a toy to play with .
and so these weights change .
and over here on the right , this is what we call the steven spielberg memorial module .
did people see the movie " ai " ?
rb : yeah , it was really bad , but -- remember , especially when haley joel osment , the little robot , looked at the blue fairy for 2,000 years without taking his eyes off it ?
well , this gets rid of that , because this is a habituation gaussian that gets negative , and more and more intense as it looks at one thing .
and it gets bored , so it will then look away at something else .
so , once you 've got that -- and here 's a robot , here 's kismet , looking around for a toy . you can tell what it 's looking at .
you can estimate its gaze direction from those eyeballs covering its camera , and you can tell when it 's actually seeing the toy .
and it 's got a little bit of an emotional response here .
but it 's still going to pay attention if something more significant comes into its field of view -- such as cynthia breazeal , the builder of this robot , from the right .
it sees her , pays attention to her .
kismet has an underlying , three-dimensional emotional space , a vector space , of where it is emotionally .
and at different places in that space , it expresses -- can we have the volume on here ?
can you hear that now , out there ?
kismet : do you really think so ? do you really think so ?
do you really think so ?
rb : so it 's expressing its emotion through its face and the prosody in its voice .
and when i was dealing with my robot over here , chris , the robot , was measuring the prosody in my voice ,
and so we have the robot measure prosody for four basic messages that mothers give their children pre-linguistically .
here we 've got naive subjects praising the robot : voice : nice robot .
you 're such a cute little robot .
rb : and the robot 's reacting appropriately .
voice : ... very good , kismet .
voice : look at my smile .
rb : it smiles . she imitates the smile . this happens a lot .
these are naive subjects .
here we asked them to get the robot 's attention and indicate when they have the robot 's attention .
voice : hey , kismet , ah , there it is .
rb : so she realizes she has the robot 's attention .
voice : kismet , do you like the toy ? oh .
rb : now , here they 're asked to prohibit the robot , and this first woman really pushes the robot into an emotional corner .
voice : no . no . you 're not to do that . no .
not appropriate . no . no .
rb : i 'm going to leave it at that .
we put that together . then we put in turn taking .
when we talk to someone , we talk .
then we sort of raise our eyebrows , move our eyes , give the other person the idea it 's their turn to talk .
and then they talk , and then we pass the baton back and forth between each other .
so we put this in the robot .
we got a bunch of naive subjects in , we didn 't tell them anything about the robot , sat them down in front of the robot and said , talk to the robot .
now what they didn 't know was , the robot wasn 't understanding a word they said , and that the robot wasn 't speaking english .
it was just saying random english phonemes .
and i want you to watch carefully , at the beginning of this , where this person , ritchie , who happened to talk to the robot for 25 minutes -- -- says , " i want to show you something .
i want to show you my watch . "
and he brings the watch center , into the robot 's field of vision , points to it , gives it a motion cue , and the robot looks at the watch quite successfully .
we don 't know whether he understood or not that the robot -- notice the turn-taking .
ritchie : ok , i want to show you something . ok , this is a watch that my girlfriend gave me .
robot : oh , cool .
ritchie : yeah , look , it 's got a little blue light in it too . i almost lost it this week .
rb : so it 's making eye contact with him , following his eyes .
ritchie : can you do the same thing ? robot : yeah , sure .
rb : and they successfully have that sort of communication .
and here 's another aspect of the sorts of things that chris and i were doing .
this is another robot , cog .
they first make eye contact , and then , when christie looks over at this toy , the robot estimates her gaze direction and looks at the same thing that she 's looking at .
so we 're going to see more and more of this sort of robot over the next few years in labs .
but then the big questions , two big questions that people ask me are : if we make these robots more and more human-like , will we accept them , will we -- will they need rights eventually ?
and the other question people ask me is , will they want to take over ?
and on the first -- you know , this has been a very hollywood theme with lots of movies . you probably recognize these characters here -- where in each of these cases , the robots want more respect .
well , do you ever need to give robots respect ?
they 're just machines , after all .
but i think , you know , we have to accept that we are just machines .
after all , that 's certainly what modern molecular biology says about us .
you don 't see a description of how , you know , molecule a , you know , comes up and docks with this other molecule .
and it 's moving forward , you know , propelled by various charges , and then the soul steps in and tweaks those molecules so that they connect .
it 's all mechanistic . we are mechanism .
if we are machines , then in principle at least , we should be able to build machines out of other stuff , which are just as alive as we are .
but i think for us to admit that , we have to give up on our special-ness , in a certain way .
and we 've had the retreat from special-ness under the barrage of science and technology many times over the last few hundred years , at least .
500 years ago we had to give up the idea that we are the center of the universe when the earth started to go around the sun ; 150 years ago , with darwin , we had to give up the idea we were different from animals .
and to imagine -- you know , it 's always hard for us .
recently we 've been battered with the idea that maybe we didn 't even have our own creation event , here on earth , which people didn 't like much . and then the human genome said , maybe we only have 35,000 genes . and that was really -- people didn 't like that , we 've got more genes than that .
we don 't like to give up our special-ness , so , you know , having the idea that robots could really have emotions , or that robots could be living creatures -- i think is going to be hard for us to accept .
but we 're going to come to accept it over the next 50 years or so .
and the second question is , will the machines want to take over ?
and here the standard scenario is that we create these things , they grow , we nurture them , they learn a lot from us , and then they start to decide that we 're pretty boring , slow .
they want to take over from us .
and for those of you that have teenagers , you know what that 's like .
but hollywood extends it to the robots .
and the question is , you know , will someone accidentally build a robot that takes over from us ?
and that 's sort of like this lone guy in the backyard , you know -- " i accidentally built a 747 . "
i don 't think that 's going to happen .
and i don 't think -- -- i don 't think we 're going to deliberately build robots that we 're uncomfortable with .
we 'll -- you know , they 're not going to have a super bad robot .
before that has to come to be a mildly bad robot , and before that a not so bad robot .
and we 're just not going to let it go that way .
so , i think i 'm going to leave it at that : the robots are coming , we don 't have too much to worry about , it 's going to be a lot of fun , and i hope you all enjoy the journey over the next 50 years .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / richard _ seymour _ how _ beauty _ feels.html
a story , a work of art , a face , a designed object -- how do we tell that something is beautiful ? and why does it matter so much to us ? designer richard seymour explores our response to beauty and the surprising power of objects that exhibit it .
arts , beauty , design , happiness
1243
richard seymour : how beauty feels
when i was little -- and by the way , i was little once -- my father told me a story about an 18th century watchmaker .
and what this guy had done : he used to produce these fabulously beautiful watches .
and one day , one of his customers came into his workshop and asked him to clean the watch that he 'd bought .
and the guy took it apart , and one of the things he pulled out was one of the balance wheels .
and as he did so , his customer noticed that on the back side of the balance wheel was an engraving ,
were words .
and he said to the guy , " why have you put stuff on the back that no one will ever see ? "
and the watchmaker turned around and said , " god can see it . "
now i 'm not in the least bit religious , neither was my father , but at that point , i noticed something happening here .
i felt something in this plexus of blood vessels and nerves , and there must be some muscles in there as well somewhere , i guess .
but i felt something .
and it was a physiological response .
and from that point on , from my age at the time , i began to think of things in a different way .
and as i took on my career as a designer , i began to ask myself the simple question : do we actually think beauty , or do we feel it ?
now you probably know the answer to this already .
you probably think , well , i don 't know which one you think it is , but i think it 's about feeling beauty .
and so i then moved on into my design career and began to find some exciting things .
one of the most early work was done in automotive design -- some very exciting work was done there .
and during a lot of this work , we found something , or i found something , that really fascinated me , and maybe you can remember it .
do you remember when lights used to just go on and off , click click , when you closed the door in a car ?
and then somebody , i think it was bmw , introduced a light that went out slowly .
remember that ?
i remember it clearly . do you remember the first time you were in a car and it did that ?
i remember sitting there thinking , this is fantastic .
in fact , i 've never found anybody that doesn 't like the light that goes out slowly .
i thought , well what the hell 's that about ?
so i started to ask myself questions about it .
and the first was , i 'd ask other people : " do you like it ? " " yes . "
" why ? " and they 'd say , " oh , it feels so natural , "
or , " it 's nice . "
i thought , well that 's not good enough .
can we cut down a little bit further , because , as a designer , i need the vocabulary , i need the keyboard , of how this actually works .
and so i did some experiments .
and i suddenly realized that there was something that did exactly that -- light to dark in six seconds -- exactly that .
do you know what it is ? anyone ?
you see , using this bit , the thinky bit , the slow bit of the brain -- using that .
and this isn 't a think , it 's a feel .
and would you do me a favor ?
for the next 14 minutes or whatever it is , will you feel stuff ?
i don 't need you to think so much as i want you to feel it .
i felt a sense of relaxation tempered with anticipation .
and that thing that i found was the cinema or the theater .
it 's actually just happened here -- light to dark in six seconds .
and when that happens , are you sitting there going , " no , the movie 's about to start , " or are you going , " that 's fantastic . i 'm looking forward to it .
i get a sense of anticipation " ?
now i 'm not a neuroscientist .
i don 't know even if there is something called a conditioned reflex .
but it might be .
because the people i speak to in the northern hemisphere that used to go in the cinema get this .
and some of the people i speak to that have never seen a movie or been to the theater don 't get it in the same way .
everybody likes it , but some like it more than others .
so this leads me to think of this in a different way .
we 're not feeling it . we 're thinking beauty is in the limbic system -- if that 's not an outmoded idea .
these are the bits , the pleasure centers , and maybe what i 'm seeing and sensing and feeling is bypassing my thinking .
the wiring from your sensory apparatus to those bits is shorter than the bits that have to pass through the thinky bit , the cortex .
they arrive first .
so how do we make that actually work ?
and how much of that reactive side of it is due to what we already know , or what we 're going to learn , about something ?
this is one of the most beautiful things i know .
it 's a plastic bag .
and when i looked at it first , i thought , no , there 's no beauty in that .
then i found out , post exposure , that this plastic bag if i put it into a filthy puddle or a stream filled with coliforms and all sorts of disgusting stuff , that that filthy water will migrate through the wall of the bag by osmosis and end up inside it as pure , potable drinking water .
and all of a sudden , this plastic bag was extremely beautiful to me .
now i 'm going to ask you again to switch on the emotional bit .
would you mind taking the brain out , and i just want you to feel something .
look at that . what are you feeling about it ?
is it beautiful ? is it exciting ?
i 'm watching your faces very carefully .
there 's some rather bored-looking gentlemen and some slightly engaged-looking ladies who are picking up something off that .
maybe there 's an innocence to it .
now i 'm going to tell you what it is . are you ready ?
this is the last act on this earth of a little girl called heidi , five years old , before she died of cancer to the spine .
it 's the last thing she did , the last physical act .
look at that picture .
look at the innocence . look at the beauty in it .
is it beautiful now ?
stop . stop . how do you feel ?
where are you feeling this ?
i 'm feeling it here . i feel it here .
and i 'm watching your faces , because your faces are telling me something .
the lady over there is actually crying , by the way .
but what are you doing ?
i watch what people do .
i watch faces .
i watch reactions .
because i have to know how people react to things .
and one of the most common faces on something faced with beauty , something stupefyingly delicious , is what i call the omg .
and by the way , there 's no pleasure in that face .
it 's not a " this is wonderful ! "
the eyebrows are doing this , the eyes are defocused , and the mouth is hanging open .
that 's not the expression of joy .
there 's something else in that .
there 's something weird happening .
so pleasure seems to be tempered by a whole series of different things coming in .
poignancy is a word i love as a designer .
it means something triggering a big emotional response , often quite a sad emotional response , but it 's part of what we do .
it isn 't just about nice .
and this is the dilemma , this is the paradox , of beauty .
sensorily , we 're taking in all sorts of things -- mixtures of things that are good , bad , exciting , frightening -- to come up with that sensorial exposure , that sensation of what 's going on .
pathos appears obviously as part of what you just saw in that little girl 's drawing .
and also triumph , this sense of transcendence , this " i never knew that . ah , this is something new . "
and that 's packed in there as well .
and as we assemble these tools , from a design point of view , i get terribly excited about it , because these are things , as we 've already said , they 're arriving at the brain , it would seem , before cognition , before we can manipulate them -- electrochemical party tricks .
now what i 'm also interested in is : is it possible to separate intrinsic and extrinsic beauty ?
by that , i mean intrinsically beautiful things , just something that 's exquisitely beautiful , that 's universally beautiful .
very hard to find . maybe you 've got some examples of it .
very hard to find something that , to everybody , is a very beautiful thing , without a certain amount of information packed in there before .
so a lot of it tends to be extrinsic .
it 's mediated by information before the comprehension .
or the information 's added on at the back , like that little girl 's drawing that i showed you .
now when talking about beauty you can 't get away from the fact that a lot experiments have been done in this way with faces and what have you .
and one of the most tedious ones , i think , was saying that beauty was about symmetry .
well it obviously isn 't .
this is a more interesting one where half faces were shown to some people , and then to add them into a list of most beautiful to least beautiful and then exposing a full face .
and they found that it was almost exact coincidence .
so it wasn 't about symmetry .
in fact , this lady has a particularly asymmetrical face , of which both sides are beautiful .
but they 're both different .
and as a designer , i can 't help meddling with this , so i pulled it to bits and sort of did stuff like this , and tried to understand what the individual elements were , but feeling it as i go .
now i can feel a sensation of delight and beauty if i look at that eye .
i 'm not getting it off the eyebrow .
and the earhole isn 't doing it to me at all .
so i don 't know how much this is helping me , but it 's helping to guide me to the places where the signals are coming off .
and as i say , i 'm not a neuroscientist , but to understand how i can start to assemble things that will very quickly bypass this thinking part and get me to the enjoyable precognitive elements .
anais nin and the talmud have told us time and time again that we see things not as they are , but as we are .
so i 'm going to shamelessly expose something to you , which is beautiful to me .
and this is the f1 mv agusta .
ahhhh .
it is really -- i mean , i can 't express to you how exquisite this object is .
but i also know why it 's exquisite to me , because it 's a palimpsest of things .
it 's masses and masses of layers .
this is just the bit that protrudes into our physical dimension .
it 's something much bigger .
layer after layer of legend , sport , details that resonate .
i mean , if i just go through some of them now -- i know about laminar flow when it comes to air-piercing objects , and that does it consummately well , you can see it can .
so that 's getting me excited .
and i feel that here .
this bit , the big secret of automotive design -- reflection management .
it 's not about the shapes , it 's how the shapes reflect light .
now that thing , light flickers across it as you move , so it becomes a kinetic object , even though it 's standing still -- managed by how brilliantly that 's done on the reflection .
this little relief on the footplate , by the way , to a rider means there 's something going on underneath it -- in this case , a drive chain running at 300 miles and hour probably , taking the power from the engine .
i 'm getting terribly excited as my mind and my eyes flick across these things .
titanium lacquer on this .
i can 't tell you how wonderful this is . that 's how you stop the nuts coming off at high speed on the wheel .
i 'm really getting into this now .
and of course , a racing bike doesn 't have a prop stand , but this one , because it 's a road bike , it all goes away and it folds into this little gap .
so it disappears .
and then i can 't tell you how hard it is to do that radiator , which is curved . why would you do that ?
because i know we need to bring the wheel farther into the aerodynamics .
so it 's more expensive , but it 's wonderful .
and to cap it all , brand royalty -- agusta , count agusta , from the great histories of this stuff .
the bit that you can 't see is the genius that created this .
massimo tamburini .
they call him " the plumber " in italy , as well as " maestro , " because he actually is engineer and craftsman and sculptor at the same time .
there 's so little compromise on this , you can 't see it .
but unfortunately , the likes of me and people that are like me have to deal with compromise all the time with beauty .
we have to deal with it .
so i have to work with a supply chain , and i 've got to work with the technologies , and i 've got to work with everything else all the time , and so compromises start to fit into it .
and so look at her .
i 've had to make a bit of a compromise there .
i 've had to move that part across , but only a millimeter .
no one 's noticed , have they yet ?
did you see what i did ?
i moved three things by a millimeter .
pretty ? yes .
beautiful ? maybe lesser .
but then , of course , the consumer says that doesn 't really matter .
so that 's okay , isn 't it ?
another millimeter ?
no one 's going to notice those split lines and changes .
it 's that easy to lose beauty ,
because beauty 's incredibly difficult to do .
and only a few people can do it .
and a focus group cannot do it .
and a team rarely can do it .
it takes a central cortex , if you like , to be able to orchestrate all those elements at the same time .
this is a beautiful water bottle -- some of you know of it -- done by ross lovegrove , the designer .
this is pretty close to intrinsic beauty . this one , as long as you know what water is like then you can experience this .
it 's lovely because it is an embodiment of something refreshing and delicious .
i might like it more than you like it , because i know how bloody hard it is to do it .
it 's stupefyingly difficult to make something that refracts light like that , that comes out of the tool correctly , that goes down the line without falling over .
underneath this , like the story of the swan , is a million things very difficult to do .
so all hail to that .
it 's a fantastic example , a simple object .
and the one i showed you before was , of course , a massively complex one .
and they 're working in beauty in slightly different ways because of it .
you all , i guess , like me , enjoy watching a ballet dancer dance .
and part of the joy of it is , you know the difficulty .
you also may be taking into account the fact that it 's incredibly painful .
anybody seen a ballet dancer 's toes when they come out of the points ?
while she 's doing these graceful arabesques and plies and what have you , something horrible 's going on down here .
the comprehension of it leads us to a greater and heightened sense of the beauty of what 's actually going on .
now i 'm using microseconds wrongly here , so please ignore me .
but what i have to do now , feeling again , what i 've got to do is to be able to supply enough of these enzymes , of these triggers into something early on in the process , that you pick it up , not through your thinking , but through your feeling .
so we 're going to have a little experiment .
right , are you ready ? i 'm going to show you something for a very , very brief moment .
are you ready ? okay .
did you think that was a bicycle when i showed it to you at the first flash ?
it 's not .
tell me something , did you think it was quick when you first saw it ? yes you did .
did you think it was modern ? yes you did .
that blip , that information , shot into you before that .
and because your brain starter motor began there , now it 's got to deal with it .
and the great thing is , this motorcycle has been styled this way specifically to engender a sense that it 's green technology and it 's good for you and it 's light and it 's all part of the future .
so is that wrong ?
well in this case it isn 't , because it 's a very , very ecologically-sound piece of technology .
but you 're a slave of that first flash .
we are slaves to the first few fractions of a second -- and that 's where much of my work has to win or lose , on a shelf in a shop .
it wins or loses at that point .
you may see 50 , 100 , 200 things on a shelf as you walk down it , but i have to work within that domain , to ensure that it gets you there first .
and finally , the layer that i love , of knowledge .
some of you , i 'm sure , will be familiar with this .
what 's incredible about this , and the way i love to come back to it , is this is taking something that you hate or bores you , folding clothes , and if you can actually do this -- who can actually do this ? anybody try to do this ?
yeah ?
it 's fantastic , isn 't it ?
look at that . do you want to see it again ?
no time . it says i have two minutes left , so we can 't do this .
but just go to the web , youtube , pull it down , " folding t-shirt . " that 's how underpaid younger-aged people have to fold your t-shirt .
you didn 't maybe know it .
but how do you feel about it ?
it feels fantastic when you do it , you look forward to doing it , and when you tell somebody else about it -- like you probably have -- you look really smart .
the knowledge bubble that sits around the outside , the stuff that costs nothing ,
because that knowledge is free -- bundle that together and where do we come out ?
form follows function ?
only sometimes . only sometimes . form is function . form is function .
it informs , it tells us , it supplies us answers before we 've even thought about it .
and so i 've stopped using words like " form , " and i 've stopped using words like " function " as a designer .
what i try to pursue now is the emotional functionality of things . because if i can get that right , i can make them wonderful , and i can make them repeatedly wonderful .
and you know what those products and services are , because you own some of them .
they 're the things that you 'd snatch if the house was on fire .
forming the emotional bond between this thing and you is an electrochemical party trick that happens before you even think about it .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / alain _ de _ botton _ atheism _ 2 _ 0.html
what aspects of religion should atheists adopt ? alain de botton suggests a " religion for atheists " -- call it atheism 2.0 -- that incorporates religious forms and traditions to satisfy our human need for connection , ritual and transcendence .
atheism , culture , philosophy , religion
1327
alain de botton : atheism 2.0
one of the most common ways of dividing the world is into those who believe and those who don 't -- into the religious and the atheists .
and for the last decade or so , it 's been quite clear what being an atheist means .
there have been some very vocal atheists who 've pointed out , not just that religion is wrong , but that it 's ridiculous .
these people , many of whom have lived in north oxford , have argued -- they 've argued that believing in god is akin to believing in fairies and essentially that the whole thing is a childish game .
now i think it 's too easy .
i think it 's too easy to dismiss the whole of religion that way .
and it 's as easy as shooting fish in a barrel .
and what i 'd like to inaugurate today is a new way of being an atheist -- if you like , a new version of atheism we could call atheism 2.0 .
now what is atheism 2.0 ?
well it starts from a very basic premise : of course , there 's no god .
of course , there are no deities or supernatural spirits or angels , etc .
now let 's move on ; that 's not the end of the story , that 's the very , very beginning .
i 'm interested in the kind of constituency that thinks something along these lines : that thinks , " i can 't believe in any of this stuff .
i can 't believe in the doctrines .
i don 't think these doctrines are right .
but , " a very important but , " i love christmas carols .
i really like the art of mantegna .
i really like looking at old churches .
i really like turning the pages of the old testament . " whatever it may be , you know the kind of thing i 'm talking about -- people who are attracted to the ritualistic side , the moralistic , communal side of religion , but can 't bear the doctrine .
until now , these people have faced a rather unpleasant choice .
it 's almost as though either you accept the doctrine and then you can have all the nice stuff , or you reject the doctrine and you 're living in some kind of spiritual wasteland under the guidance of cnn and walmart .
so that 's a sort of tough choice .
i don 't think we have to make that choice .
i think there is an alternative .
i think there are ways -- and i 'm being both very respectful and completely impious -- of stealing from religions .
if you don 't believe in a religion , there 's nothing wrong with picking and mixing , with taking out the best sides of religion .
and for me , atheism 2.0 is about both , as i say , a respectful and an impious way of going through religions and saying , " what here could we use ? " the secular world is full of holes .
we have secularized badly , i would argue .
and a thorough study of religion could give us all sorts of insights into areas of life that are not going too well .
and i 'd like to run through a few of these today .
i 'd like to kick off by looking at education .
now education is a field the secular world really believes in .
when we think about how we 're going to make the world a better place , we think education ; that 's where we put a lot of money .
education is going to give us , not only commercial skills , industrial skills , it 's also going to make us better people .
you know the kind of thing a commencement address is , and graduation ceremonies , those lyrical claims that education , the process of education -- particularly higher education -- will make us into nobler and better human beings .
that 's a lovely idea .
interesting where it came from .
in the early 19th century , church attendance in western europe started sliding down very , very sharply , and people panicked .
they asked themselves the following question . they said , where are people going to find the morality , where are they going to find guidance , and where are they going to find sources of consolation ?
and influential voices came up with one answer .
they said culture .
it 's to culture that we should look for guidance , for consolation , for morality .
let 's look to the plays of shakespeare , the dialogues of plato , the novels of jane austen .
in there , we 'll find a lot of the truths that we might previously have found in the gospel of saint john .
now i think that 's a very beautiful idea and a very true idea .
they wanted to replace scripture with culture .
and that 's a very plausible idea .
it 's also an idea that we have forgotten .
if you went to a top university -- let 's say you went to harvard or oxford or cambridge -- and you said , " i 've come here because i 'm in search of morality , guidance and consolation ; i want to know how to live , " they would show you the way to the insane asylum .
this is simply not what our grandest and best institutes of higher learning are in the business of .
why ? they don 't think we need it .
they don 't think we are in an urgent need of assistance .
they see us as adults , rational adults .
what we need is information .
we need data , we don 't need help .
now religions start from a very different place indeed .
all religions , all major religions , at various points call us children .
and like children , they believe that we are in severe need of assistance .
we 're only just holding it together .
perhaps this is just me , maybe you .
but anyway , we 're only just holding it together .
and we need help . of course , we need help .
and so we need guidance and we need didactic learning .
you know , in the 18th century in the u.k. , the greatest preacher , greatest religious preacher , was a man called john wesley , who went up and down this country delivering sermons , advising people how they could live .
he delivered sermons on the duties of parents to their children and children to their parents , the duties of the rich to the poor and the poor to the rich .
he was trying to tell people how they should live through the medium of sermons , the classic medium of delivery of religions .
now we 've given up with the idea of sermons .
if you said to a modern liberal individualist , " hey , how about a sermon ? " they 'd go , " no , no . i don 't need one of those .
i 'm an independent , individual person . " what 's the difference between a sermon and our modern , secular mode of delivery , the lecture ?
well a sermon wants to change your life and a lecture wants to give you a bit of information .
and i think we need to get back to that sermon tradition .
the tradition of sermonizing is hugely valuable , because we are in need of guidance , morality and consolation -- and religions know that .
another point about education : we tend to believe in the modern secular world that if you tell someone something once , they 'll remember it .
sit them in a classroom , tell them about plato at the age of 20 , send them out for a career in management consultancy for 40 years , and that lesson will stick with them .
religions go , " nonsense .
you need to keep repeating the lesson 10 times a day .
so get on your knees and repeat it . " that 's what all religions tell us : " get on you knees and repeat it 10 or 20 or 15 times a day . " otherwise our minds are like sieves .
so religions are cultures of repetition .
they circle the great truths again and again and again .
we associate repetition with boredom .
" give us the new , " we 're always saying .
" the new is better than the old . "
if i said to you , " okay , we 're not going to have new ted .
we 're just going to run through all the old ones and watch them five times because they 're so true .
we 're going to watch elizabeth gilbert five times because what she says is so clever , " you 'd feel cheated .
not so if you 're adopting a religious mindset .
the other things that religions do is to arrange time .
all the major religions give us calendars .
what is a calendar ?
a calendar is a way of making sure that across the year you will bump into certain very important ideas .
in the catholic chronology , catholic calendar , at the end of march you will think about st. jerome and his qualities of humility and goodness and his generosity to the poor .
you won 't do that by accident ; you will do that because you are guided to do that .
now we don 't think that way .
in the secular world we think , " if an idea is important , i 'll bump into it .
i 'll just come across it . " nonsense , says the religious world view .
religious view says we need calendars , we need to structure time , we need to synchronize encounters .
this comes across also in the way in which religions set up rituals around important feelings .
take the moon . it 's really important to look at the moon .
you know , when you look at the moon , you think , " i 'm really small . what are my problems ? " it sets things into perspective , etc . , etc .
we should all look at the moon a bit more often . we don 't .
why don 't we ? well there 's nothing to tell us , " look at the moon . " but if you 're a zen buddhist in the middle of september , you will be ordered out of your home , made to stand on a canonical platform and made to celebrate the festival of tsukimi , where you will be given poems to read in honor of the moon and the passage of time and the frailty of life that it should remind us of .
you 'll be handed rice cakes .
and the moon and the reflection on the moon will have a secure place in your heart .
that 's very good .
the other thing that religions are really aware of is : speak well -- i 'm not doing a very good job of this here -- but oratory , oratory is absolutely key to religions .
in the secular world , you can come through the university system and be a lousy speaker and still have a great career .
but the religious world doesn 't think that way .
what you 're saying needs to be backed up by a really convincing way of saying it .
so if you go to an african american pentecostalist church in the american south and you listen to how they talk , my goodness , they talk well .
after every convincing point , people will go , " amen , amen , amen . " at the end of a really rousing paragraph , they 'll all stand up , and they 'll go , " thank you jesus , thank you christ , thank you savior . " if we were doing it like they do it -- let 's not do it , but if we were to do it -- i would tell you something like , " culture should replace scripture . " and you would go , " amen , amen , amen . " and at the end of my talk , you would all stand up and you would go , " thank you plato , thank you shakespeare , thank you jane austen . " and we 'd know that we had a real rhythm going .
all right , all right . we 're getting there . we 're getting there .
the other thing that religions know is we 're not just brains , we are also bodies .
and when they teach us a lesson , they do it via the body .
so for example , take the jewish idea of forgiveness .
jews are very interested in forgiveness and how we should start anew and start afresh .
they don 't just deliver us sermons on this .
they don 't just give us books or words about this .
they tell us to have a bath .
so in orthodox jewish communities , every friday you go to a mikveh .
you immerse yourself in the water , and a physical action backs up a philosophical idea .
we don 't tend to do that .
our ideas are in one area and our behavior with our bodies is in another .
religions are fascinating in the way they try and combine the two .
let 's look at art now .
now art is something that in the secular world , we think very highly of . we think art is really , really important .
a lot of our surplus wealth goes to museums , etc .
we sometimes hear it said that museums are our new cathedrals , or our new churches .
you 've heard that saying .
now i think that the potential is there ,
but we 've completely let ourselves down .
and the reason we 've let ourselves down is that we 're not properly studying how religions handle art .
the two really bad ideas that are hovering in the modern world that inhibit our capacity to draw strength from art : the first idea is that art should be for art 's sake -- a ridiculous idea -- an idea that art should live in a hermetic bubble and should not try to do anything with this troubled world .
i couldn 't disagree more .
the other thing that we believe is that art shouldn 't explain itself , that artists shouldn 't say what they 're up to , because if they said it , it might destroy the spell and we might find it too easy .
that 's why a very common feeling when you 're in a museum -- let 's admit it -- is , " i don 't know what this is about . " but if we 're serious people , we don 't admit to that .
but that feeling of puzzlement is structural to contemporary art .
now religions have a much saner attitude to art .
they have no trouble telling us what art is about .
art is about two things in all the major faiths .
firstly , it 's trying to remind you of what there is to love .
and secondly , it 's trying to remind you of what there is to fear and to hate .
and that 's what art is .
art is a visceral encounter with the most important ideas of your faith .
so as you walk around a church , or a mosque or a cathedral , what you 're trying to imbibe , what you 're imbibing is , through your eyes , through your senses , truths that have otherwise come to you through your mind .
essentially it 's propaganda .
rembrandt is a propagandist in the christian view .
now the word " propaganda " sets off alarm bells .
we think of hitler , we think of stalin . don 't , necessarily .
propaganda is a manner of being didactic in honor of something .
and if that thing is good , there 's no problem with it at all .
my view is that museums should take a leaf out of the book of religions .
and they should make sure that when you walk into a museum -- if i was a museum curator , i would make a room for love , a room for generosity .
all works of art are talking to us about things .
and if we were able to arrange spaces where we could come across works where we would be told , use these works of art to cement these ideas in your mind , we would get a lot more out of art .
art would pick up the duty that it used to have and that we 've neglected because of certain mis-founded ideas .
art should be one of the tools by which we improve our society .
art should be didactic .
let 's think of something else .
the people in the modern world , in the secular world , who are interested in matters of the spirit , in matters of the mind , in higher soul-like concerns , tend to be isolated individuals .
they 're poets , they 're philosophers , they 're photographers , they 're filmmakers .
and they tend to be on their own .
they 're our cottage industries . they are vulnerable , single people .
and they get depressed and they get sad on their own .
and they don 't really change much .
now think about religions , think about organized religions .
what do organized religions do ?
they group together , they form institutions .
and that has all sorts of advantages .
first of all , scale , might .
the catholic church pulled in 97 billion dollars last year according to the wall street journal .
these are massive machines .
they 're collaborative , they 're branded , they 're multinational , and they 're highly disciplined .
these are all very good qualities .
we recognize them in relation to corporations .
and corporations are very like religions in many ways , except they 're right down at the bottom of the pyramid of needs .
they 're selling us shoes and cars .
whereas the people who are selling us the higher stuff -- the therapists , the poets -- are on their own and they have no power , they have no might .
so religions are the foremost example of an institution that is fighting for the things of the mind .
now we may not agree with what religions are trying to teach us , but we can admire the institutional way in which they 're doing it .
books alone , books written by lone individuals , are not going to change anything .
we need to group together .
if you want to change the world , you have to group together , you have to be collaborative .
and that 's what religions do .
they are multinational , as i say , they are branded , they have a clear identity , so they don 't get lost in a busy world .
that 's something we can learn from .
i want to conclude .
really what i want to say is for many of you who are operating in a range of different fields , there is something to learn from the example of religion -- even if you don 't believe any of it .
if you 're involved in anything that 's communal , that involves lots of people getting together , there are things for you in religion .
if you 're involved , say , in a travel industry in any way , look at pilgrimage .
look very closely at pilgrimage .
we haven 't begun to scratch the surface of what travel could be because we haven 't looked at what religions do with travel .
if you 're in the art world , look at the example of what religions are doing with art .
and if you 're an educator in any way , again , look at how religions are spreading ideas .
you may not agree with the ideas , but my goodness , they 're highly effective mechanisms for doing so .
so really my concluding point is you may not agree with religion , but at the end of the day , religions are so subtle , so complicated , so intelligent in many ways that they 're not fit to be abandoned to the religious alone ; they 're for all of us .
thank you very much .
chris anderson : now this is actually a courageous talk , because you 're kind of setting up yourself in some ways to be ridiculed in some quarters .
ab : you can get shot by both sides .
you can get shot by the hard-headed atheists , and you can get shot by those who fully believe .
ca : incoming missiles from north oxford at any moment .
ab : indeed .
ca : but you left out one aspect of religion that a lot of people might say your agenda could borrow from , which is this sense -- that 's actually probably the most important thing to anyone who 's religious -- of spiritual experience , of some kind of connection with something that 's bigger than you are .
is there any room for that experience in atheism 2.0 ?
ab : absolutely . i , like many of you , meet people who say things like , " but isn 't there something bigger than us , something else ? " and i say , " of course . " and they say , " so aren 't you sort of religious ? " and i go , " no . " why does that sense of mystery , that sense of the dizzying scale of the universe , need to be accompanied by a mystical feeling ?
science and just observation gives us that feeling without it , so i don 't feel the need .
the universe is large and we are tiny , without the need for further religious superstructure .
so one can have so-called spiritual moments without belief in the spirit .
ca : actually , let me just ask a question .
how many people here would say that religion is important to them ?
is there an equivalent process by which there 's a sort of bridge between what you 're talking about and what you would say to them ?
ab : i would say that there are many , many gaps in secular life and these can be plugged .
it 's not as though , as i try to suggest , it 's not as though either you have religion and then you have to accept all sorts of things , or you don 't have religion and then you 're cut off from all these very good things .
it 's so sad that we constantly say , " i don 't believe so i can 't have community , so i 'm cut off from morality , so i can 't go on a pilgrimage . " one wants to say , " nonsense . why not ? " and that 's really the spirit of my talk .
there 's so much we can absorb .
atheism shouldn 't cut itself off from the rich sources of religion .
ca : it seems to me that there 's plenty of people in the ted community who are atheists .
but probably most people in the community certainly don 't think that religion is going away any time soon and want to find the language to have a constructive dialogue and to feel like we can actually talk to each other and at least share some things in common .
are we foolish to be optimistic about the possibility of a world where , instead of religion being the great rallying cry of divide and war , that there could be bridging ?
ab : no , we need to be polite about differences .
politeness is a much-overlooked virtue .
it 's seen as hypocrisy .
but we need to get to a stage when you 're an atheist and someone says , " well you know , i did pray the other day , " you politely ignore it .
you move on .
because you 've agreed on 90 percent of things , because you have a shared view on so many things , and you politely differ .
and i think that 's what the religious wars of late have ignored .
they 've ignored the possibility of harmonious disagreement .
ca : and finally , does this new thing that you 're proposing that 's not a religion but something else , does it need a leader , and are you volunteering to be the pope ?
ab : well , one thing that we 're all very suspicious of is individual leaders .
it doesn 't need it .
what i 've tried to lay out is a framework and i 'm hoping that people can just fill it in .
i 've sketched a sort of broad framework .
but wherever you are , as i say , if you 're in the travel industry , do that travel bit .
if you 're in the communal industry , look at religion and do the communal bit .
so it 's a wiki project .
ca : alain , thank you for sparking many conversations later .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / anil _ ananthaswamy.html
all over the planet , giant telescopes and detectors are looking for clues to the workings of the universe . at the ink conference , science writer anil ananthaswamy tours us around these amazing installations , taking us to some of the most remote and silent places on earth .
exploration , journalism , science , technology , universe
1129
anil ananthaswamy : what it takes to do extreme astrophysics
i would like to talk today about what i think is one of the greatest adventures human beings have embarked upon , which is the quest to understand the universe and our place in it .
my own interest in this subject , and my passion for it , began rather accidentally .
i had bought a copy of this book , " the universe and dr. einstein " -- a used paperback from a secondhand bookstore in seattle .
a few years after that , in bangalore , i was finding it hard to fall asleep one night , and i picked up this book , thinking it would put me to sleep in 10 minutes .
and as it happened , i read it from midnight to five in the morning in one shot .
and i was left with this intense feeling of awe and exhilaration at the universe and our own ability to understand as much as we do .
and that feeling hasn 't left me yet .
that feeling was the trigger for me to actually change my career -- from being a software engineer to become a science writer -- so that i could partake in the joy of science , and also the joy of communicating it to others .
and that feeling also led me to a pilgrimage of sorts , to go literally to the ends of the earth to see telescopes , detectors , instruments that people are building , or have built , in order to probe the cosmos in greater and greater detail .
so it took me from places like chile -- the atacama desert in chile -- to siberia , to underground mines in the japanese alps , in northern america , all the way to antarctica and even to the south pole .
and today i would like to share with you some images , some stories of these trips .
i have been basically spending the last few years documenting the efforts of some extremely intrepid men and women who are putting , literally at times , their lives at stake working in some very remote and very hostile places so that they may gather the faintest signals from the cosmos in order for us to understand this universe .
and i first begin with a pie chart -- and i promise this is the only pie chart in the whole presentation --
but it sets up the state of our knowledge of the cosmos .
all the theories in physics that we have today properly explain what is called normal matter -- the stuff that we 're all made of -- and that 's four percent of the universe .
astronomers and cosmologists and physicists think that there is something called dark matter in the universe , which makes up 23 percent of the universe , and something called dark energy , which permeates the fabric of space-time , that makes up another 73 percent .
so if you look at this pie chart , 96 percent of the universe , at this point in our exploration of it , is unknown or not well understood .
and most of the experiments , telescopes that i went to see are in some way addressing this question , these two twin mysteries of dark matter and dark energy .
i will take you first to an underground mine in northern minnesota where people are looking for something called dark matter .
and the idea here is that they are looking for a sign of a dark matter particle hitting one of their detectors .
and the reason why they have to go underground is that , if you did this experiment on the surface of the earth , the same experiment would be swamped by signals that could be created by things like cosmic rays , ambient radio activity , even our own bodies . you might not believe it , but even our own bodies are radioactive enough to disturb this experiment .
so they go deep inside mines to find a kind of environmental silence that will allow them to hear the ping of a dark matter particle hitting their detector .
and i went to see one of these experiments , and this is actually -- you can barely see it , and the reason for that is it 's entirely dark in there --
this is a cavern that was left behind by the miners who left this mine in 1960 .
and physicists came and started using it sometime in the 1980s .
and the miners in the early part of the last century worked , literally , in candlelight .
and today , you would see this inside the mine , half a mile underground .
this is one of the largest underground labs in the world .
and , among other things , they 're looking for dark matter .
there is another way to search for dark matter , which is indirectly .
if dark matter exists in our universe , in our galaxy , then these particles should be smashing together and producing other particles that we know about -- one of them being neutrinos .
and neutrinos you can detect by the signature they leave when they hit water molecules .
when a neutrino hits a water molecule it emits a kind of blue light , a flash of blue light , and by looking for this blue light , you can essentially understand something about the neutrino and then , indirectly , something about the dark matter that might have created this neutrino .
but you need very , very large volumes of water in order to do this .
you need something like tens of megatons of water -- almost a gigaton of water -- in order to have any chance of catching this neutrino .
and where in the world would you find such water ?
well the russians have a tank in their own backyard .
this is lake baikal .
it is the largest lake in the world . it 's 800 km long .
it 's about 40 to 50 km wide in most places , and one to two kilometers deep .
and what the russians are doing is they 're building these detectors and immersing them about a kilometer beneath the surface of the lake so that they can watch for these flashes of blue light .
and this is the scene that greeted me when i landed there .
this is lake baikal in the peak of the siberian winter .
the lake is entirely frozen .
and the line of black dots that you see in the background , that 's the ice camp where the physicists are working .
the reason why they have to work in winter is because they don 't have the money to work in summer and spring , which , if they did that , they would need ships and submersibles to do their work .
so they wait until winter -- the lake is completely frozen over -- and they use this meter-thick ice as a platform on which to establish their ice camp and do their work .
so this is the russians working on the ice in the peak of the siberian winter .
they have to drill holes in the ice , dive down into the water -- cold , cold water -- to get hold of the instrument , bring it up , do any repairs and maintenance that they need to do , put it back and get out before the ice melts .
because that phase of solid ice lasts for two months and it 's full of cracks .
and you have to imagine , there 's an entire sea-like lake underneath , moving .
i still don 't understand this one russian man working in his bare chest , but that tells you how hard he was working .
and these people , a handful of people , have been working for 20 years , looking for particles that may or may not exist . and they have dedicated their lives to it .
and just to give you an idea , they have spent 20 million over 20 years .
it 's very harsh conditions .
they work on a shoestring budget .
the toilets there are literally holes in the ground covered with a wooden shack .
and it 's that basic , but they do this every year .
from siberia to the atacama desert in chile , to see something called the very large telescope .
the very large telescope is one of these things that astronomers do -- they name their telescopes rather unimaginatively .
i can tell you for a fact , that the next one that they 're planning is called the extremely large telescope .
and you wouldn 't believe it , but the one after that is going to be called the overwhelmingly large telescope .
but nonetheless , it 's an extraordinary piece of engineering .
these are four 8.2 meter telescopes .
and these telescopes , among other things , they 're being used to study how the expansion of the universe is changing with time .
and the more you understand that , the better you would understand what this dark energy that the universe is made of is all about .
and one piece of engineering that i want to leave you with as regards this telescope is the mirror . each mirror , there are four of them , is made of a single piece of glass , a monolithic piece of high-tech ceramic , that has been ground down and polished to such accuracy that the only way to understand what that is is [ to ] imagine a city like paris , with all its buildings and the eiffel tower ,
if you grind down paris to that kind of accuracy , you would be left with bumps that are one millimeter high .
and that 's the kind of polishing that these mirrors have endured .
an extraordinary set of telescopes .
here 's another view of the same .
the reason why you have to build these telescopes in places like the atacama desert is because of the high altitude desert .
the dry air is really good for telescopes , and also , the cloud cover is below the summit of these mountains so that the telescopes have about 300 days of clear skies .
finally , i want to take you to antarctica .
i want to spend most of my time on this part of the world .
this is cosmology 's final frontier .
some of the most amazing experiments , some of the most extreme experiments , are being done in antarctica .
i was there to view something called a long-duration balloon flight , which basically takes telescopes and instruments all the way to the upper atmosphere , the upper stratosphere , 40 km up .
and that 's where they do their experiments , and then the balloon , the payload , is brought down .
so this is us landing on the ross ice shelf in antarctica .
that 's an american c-17 cargo plane that flew us from new zealand to mcmurdo in antarctica .
and here we are about to board our bus .
and i don 't know if you can read the lettering , but it says , " ivan the terribus . "
and that 's taking us to mcmurdo .
and this is the scene that greets you in mcmurdo .
and you barely might be able to make out this hut here .
this hut was built by robert falcon scott and his men when they first came to antarctica on their first expedition to go to the south pole .
because it 's so cold , the entire contents of that hut is still as they left it , with the remnants of the last meal they cooked still there .
it 's an extraordinary place .
this is mcmurdo itself . about a thousand people work here in summer , and about 200 in winter when it 's completely dark for six months .
i was here to see the launch of this particular type of instrument .
this is a cosmic ray experiment that has been launched all the way to the upper-stratosphere to an altitude of 40 km .
what i want you to imagine is this is two tons in weight .
so you 're using a balloon to carry something that is two tons all the way to an altitude of 40 km .
and the engineers , the technicians , the physicists have all got to assemble on the ross ice shelf , because antarctica -- i won 't go into the reasons why -- but it 's one of the most favorable places for doing these balloon launches , except for the weather .
the weather , as you can imagine ,
this is summer , and you 're standing on 200 ft of ice .
and there 's a volcano behind , which has glaciers at the very top .
and what they have to do is they have to assemble the entire balloon -- the fabric , parachute and everything -- on the ice and then fill it up with helium .
and that process takes about two hours .
and the weather can change as they 're putting together this whole assembly .
for instance , here they are laying down the balloon fabric behind , which is eventually going to be filled up with helium .
those two trucks you see at the very end carry 12 tanks each of compressed helium .
now , in case the weather changes before the launch , they have to actually pack everything back up into their boxes and take it out back to mcmurdo station .
and this particular balloon , because it has to launch two tons of weight , is an extremely huge balloon .
the fabric alone weighs two tons .
in order to minimize the weight , it 's very thin , it 's as thin as a sandwich wrapper .
and if they have to pack it back , they have to put it into boxes and stamp on it so that it fits into the box again -- except , when they did it first , it would have been done in texas .
here , they can 't do it with the kind shoes they 're wearing , so they have to take their shoes off , get barefoot into the boxes , in this cold , and do that kind of work .
that 's the kind of dedication these people have .
here 's the balloon being filled up with helium , and you can see it 's a gorgeous sight .
here 's a scene that shows you the balloon and the payload end-to-end .
so the balloon is being filled up with helium on the left-hand side , and the fabric actually runs all the way to the middle where there 's a piece of electronics and explosives being connected to a parachute , and then the parachute is then connected to the payload .
and remember , all this wiring is being done by people in extreme cold , in sub-zero temperatures .
they 're wearing about 15 kg of clothing and stuff , but they have to take their gloves off in order to do that .
and i would like to share with you a launch .
radio : okay , release the balloon , release the balloon , release the balloon .
anil ananthaswamy : and i 'll finally like to leave you with two images .
this is an observatory in the himalayas , in ladakh in india .
and the thing i want you to look at here is the telescope on the right-hand side .
and on the far left there is a 400 year-old buddhist monastery .
this is a close-up of the buddhist monastery .
and i was struck by the juxtaposition of these two enormous disciplines that humanity has .
one is exploring the cosmos on the outside , and the other one is exploring our interior being .
and both require silence of some sort .
and what struck me was every place that i went to to see these telescopes , the astronomers and cosmologists are in search of a certain kind of silence , whether it 's silence from radio pollution or light pollution or whatever .
and it was very obvious that , if we destroy these silent places on earth , we will be stuck on a planet without the ability to look outwards , because we will not be able to understand the signals that come from outer space .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / brewster _ kahle _ builds _ a _ free _ digital _ library.html
brewster kahle is building a truly huge digital library -- every book ever published , every movie ever released , all the strata of web history ... it 's all free to the public -- unless someone else gets to it first .
book , design , entertainment , film , history , library , media , music , technology , web
346
brewster kahle builds a free digital library
we really need to put the best we have to offer within reach of our children .
if we don 't do that , we 're going to get the generation we deserve .
they 're going to learn from whatever it is they have around them .
and we , as now the elite , parents , librarians , professionals , whatever it is , a bunch of our activities are , in fact , in trying to get the best we have to offer within reach of those around us , or as broadly as we can .
i 'm going to start and end this talk with a couple things that are carved in stone .
one is what 's on the boston public library .
carved above their door is , " free to all . " it 's kind of an inspiring statement , and i 'll go back at the end of this .
i 'm a librarian , and what i 'm trying to do is bring all of the works of knowledge to as many people as want to read it .
and the idea of using technology is perfect for us .
i think we have the opportunity to one-up the greeks .
it 's not easy to one-up the greeks . but with the industriousness of the egyptians , they were able to build the library of alexandria -- the idea of a copy of every book of all the peoples of the world .
the problem was you actually had to go to alexandria to go to it .
on the other hand , if you did , then great things happened .
i think we can one-up the greeks and achieve something .
and i 'm going to try to argue only one point today : that universal access to all knowledge is within our grasp .
so if i 'm successful , then you 'll actually come away thinking , yeah , we could actually achieve the great vision of everything ever published , everything that was ever meant for distribution , available to anybody in the world that 's ever wanted to have access to it .
yes , there 's issues about how money should be distributed , and that 's still being refigured out .
but i 'd say there 's plenty of money , and there 's plenty of demand , so we can actually achieve that .
but i 'm going to go over the technological , social and sort of where are we as a whole , trying to get to that particular vision .
and the way i 'm going to try to do this is do it like the amazon.com website , the books , music , video and just go step -- media type by media type , just go and say , all right , how 're we doing on this ?
so if we start with books , you know , sort of where are we ?
well , first you have to , as an engineer , scope the problem . how big is it ?
if you wanted to put all of the published works online so that anybody could have it available , well , how big a problem is it ?
well , we don 't really know , but the largest print library in the world is the library of congress . it 's 26 million volumes , 26 million volumes .
it is , by far and away , the largest print library in the world .
and a book , if you had a book , is about a megabyte , so -- you know , if you had it in microsoft word .
so a megabyte , 26 million megabytes is 26 terabytes -- it goes mega- , giga- , tera- . 26 terabytes .
26 terabytes fits in a computer system that 's about this big , on spinning linux drives , and it costs about 60,000 dollars .
so for the cost of a house -- or around here , a garage -- you can put , you can have spinning all of the words in the library of congress .
that 's pretty neat .
then the question is , what do you get ?
you know , is it worth trying to get there ?
do you actually want it online ?
some of the first things that people do is they make book readers that allow you to search inside the books , and that 's kind of fun .
and you can download these things , and look around them in new and different ways .
and you can get at them remotely , if you happen to have a laptop .
there 's starting to be some of these sort of page turn-y interfaces that look a whole lot like books in certain ways , and you can search them , make little tabs , and it 's kind of cute -- still very book-like -- on your laptop .
but i don 't know , reading things on a laptop -- whenever i pull up my laptop , it always feels like work .
i think that 's one of the reasons why the kindle is so great .
i don 't have to feel like i 'm at work to read a kindle . it 's starting to be a little bit more specified .
but i have to say that there 's older technologies that i tend to like .
i like the physical book .
and i think we can go and use our technology to go and digitize things , put them on the net , and then download , print them and bind them , and end up with books again .
and we sort of said , well , how hard is this ?
and it turns out to not be very hard .
we actually went off to make a bookmobile .
and a bookmobile -- the size of a van with a satellite dish , a printer , binder and cutter , and kids make their own books .
it costs about three dollars to download , print and bind a normal , old book .
and they actually come out kind of nice looking .
you can actually get really good-looking books for on the order of one penny per page , sort of the parts cost for doing this .
so the idea of -- this technology actually may end up putting books back in people 's hands again .
there are some other bookmobiles running around .
this is eric eldred making books at walden pond -- thoreau 's works .
this is just before he got kicked out by the parks services , for competing with the bookstore there .
in india , they 've got another couple bookmobiles running around .
and this is the opening day at the library of alexandria , the new library of alexandria , in egypt .
it was quite popularly attended .
and kids starting to make their own books ,
and a happy kid with the first book that he 's ever owned .
so the idea of being able to use this technology to end up with paper where i can handle sort of sounds a little retro , but i think it still has its place .
and being from the silicon valley , sort of utopian sort of world , we thought , if we can make this technology work in rural uganda , we might have something .
so we actually got some funding from the world bank to try it out .
and we found in about 30 days we could go and take a couple folks from silicon valley , fly them to uganda , buy a car , set up the first internet connection at the national library of uganda , figure out what they wanted , and get a program going making books in rural uganda .
and it actually -- so technologically , it works .
what we found out of this is we didn 't have the right books .
so the books were in the library . we could get it to people , if they 're digitized , but we didn 't know how to quite get them digitized .
everybody thought the answer is , send things to india and china .
and so we 've tried that , and i 'll go over that in a moment .
there are some newer technologies for delivering that have happened that are actually quite exciting as well .
one is a print-on-demand machine that looks like a rube goldberg machine .
we have one of these things now . it 's completely cool .
it 's all conveyor belt , and it makes a book .
and it 's called the " espresso book machine , " and in about 10 minutes , you can press a button and make a book .
something else i 'm quite excited about in this particular domain , beyond these sort of kiosk-y things where you can get books on demand , is some of these new little screens that are coming out .
and one of my favorites in this is the $ 100 laptop .
and i don 't mean to steal any thunder here , but we 've gone and used one of these things to be an e-book reader .
so here 's one of the beta units and you can -- it actually turns out to be a really good-looking e-book reader .
and we have a quick hack that we did to try to put one of our books on it , and it turns out that 200 dots per inch means that you can put scanned books on them that look really good .
at 200 dots per inch , it 's kind of the equivalent of a 300 dot print laser printer .
we 're in good enough shape .
you actually can go and read scanned books quite easily .
so the idea of electronic books is starting to come about .
but how do you go about doing all this scanning ?
so we thought , okay , well , let 's try out this send books to india thing .
and there was a project with , funded by the national science foundation -- sent a bunch of scanners , and the american libraries were supposed to send books .
well , they didn 't . they didn 't want to send their books .
so we bought 100,000 books and sent them to india .
and then we learned why you don 't want to send books to india .
the lesson we learned out of this is , scan your own books .
if you really care about books , you 're going to scan them better , especially if they 're valuable books .
if they 're new books and you can just , you know , butcher them , because you could just buy another one , that 's not such a big deal in terms of doing high-quality scanning .
but do things that you love .
but the indians have been scanning a lot of their own books -- about 300,000 now -- doing very well .
the chinese did over a million , and the egyptians are about 30,000 .
but we sent -- thought , ok , if we 're going to need to do this , let 's do it in-library .
how do we go and do this , and how do we get it down so that it 's a cost point that we could afford ?
and we sort of picked the price point of 10 cents a page .
if it 's basically the cost of xeroxing to basically digitize , ocr , package it up , make it so that you could download , print and bind it -- the whole shebang -- we would have achieved something .
so we started out trying to figure out . how do we get to 10 cents ?
and we tried these robot things , and they worked pretty well -- sort of these auto-page-turning things .
if we can have mars rovers , you 'd think you could turn pages .
but it actually turns out to be pretty hard to turn pages , and the volume isn 't there .
so anyway -- so we ended up making our own book scanner ,
and with two digital , high-grade , professional digital cameras , controlled museum lighting , so even if it 's a black and white book , you can go and get the proper intonation .
so you basically do a beautiful , respectful job .
this is not a fax , this is -- the idea is to do a beautiful job as you 're going through these libraries .
and we 've been able to achieve 10 cents a page if we run things in volume .
this is what it looks like at the university of toronto .
and actually , it turns out to , you know , pay a living wage .
people seem to love it .
yes , it 's a little boring , but some people kind of get into the zen of it .
and especially if it 's kind of interesting books that you care about , in languages that you can read . we actually have been able to do a pretty good job of this , at getting 10 cents a page .
so 10 cents a page , 300 pages in your average book , 30 dollars a book .
the library of congress , if you did the whole darn thing -- 26 million books -- is about 750 million dollars , right ?
but a million books , i think , actually would be a pretty good start , and that would cost 30 million dollars . that 's not that big a bill .
and what we 've been able to do is get into libraries .
we 've now got eight of these scanning centers in three countries , and libraries are up for having their books scanned . the getty here is moving their books to the ucla , which is where we have one these scanning centers , and scanning their out-of-copyright books , which is fabulous .
so we 're starting to get the institutional responsibility .
the thing we 're missing is the 10 cents .
if we can get the 10 cents , all the rest of it flows .
we 've scanned about 200,000 books .
now we 're scanning about 15,000 books a month ,
and it 's starting to gear up another factor of two from there .
so all in all , that 's going very well .
and we 're starting to move out of the just out-of-copyright into the out-of-print world .
so i think of -- we 're kind of going from the out-of-copyright , library stuff , and amazon.com is coming from the in-print world . and i think we 'll meet in the middle some place , and have the classic thing that you have , which is a publishing system and a library system working in parallel .
and so we 're starting up a program to do out-of-print works , but loaning them .
exactly what loaning means , i 'm not quite sure .
but anyway , loaning out-of-print works from the boston public library , the woods hole oceanographic institute and a few other libraries that are starting to participate in this program , to try out this model of where does a library stop and where does the bookstore take over .
so all in all , it 's possible to do this in large scale .
we 're also going back over microfilm and getting that online .
so , we can do 10 cents a page , we 're going 15,000 books a month and we 've got about 250,000 books online , counting all the other projects that are starting to add in .
so what i wanted to argue is , books are within our grasp .
the idea of taking on the whole ball of wax is not that big a deal .
yes , it costs tens of millions , low hundreds of millions , but one time shot and we 've got basically the history of printed literature online .
and then , there 's business model issues about how to try to effectively market it and get it to people .
but it is within our grasp , technologically and law-wise , at least for the out of print and out of copyright , we suggest , to be able to get the whole darn thing online .
now let 's go for audio , and i 'm going to go through these .
so how much is there ?
well , as best we can tell , there are about two to three million disks having been published -- so 78s , long-playing records and cds -- or at least that 's the largest archives of published materials we 've been able to sort of point at .
it costs about 10 dollars a piece to go and take a disk and put it online , if you 're doing things in volume .
but we 've found that the rights issues are really quite thorny .
this is a fairly heavily litigated area , so we 've found that there are niches in the music world that aren 't served terribly well by the classic commercial publishing system .
and we 've been starting to make these available by going and offering shelf space on the net .
in the united states , it doesn 't cost you to give something away . right ?
if you give something to a charity or to the public , you get a pat on the back and a tax donation -- except on the net , where you can go broke .
if you put up a video of your garage band , and it starts getting heavily accessed , you can lose your guitars or your house .
this doesn 't make any sense .
so we 've offered unlimited storage , unlimited bandwidth , forever , for free , to anybody that has something to share that belongs in a library .
and we 've been getting a lot of takers . one is the rock ' n ' rollers .
the rock ' n ' rollers had a tradition of sharing , as long as nobody made any money . you could -- concert recordings , it 's not the commercial recordings , but concert recordings , started by the grateful dead .
and we get about two or three bands a day signing up .
they give permission , and we get about 40 or 50 concerts a day .
we have about 40,000 concerts , everything the grateful dead ever did , up on the net , so that people can see it and listen to this material .
so audio is possible to put up , but the rights issues are really pretty thorny .
we 've got a lot of collections now -- a couple hundred thousand items -- and it 's growing over time .
moving images : if you think of theatrical releases , there are not that many of them .
as best we can tell , there are about 150,000 to 200,000 movies ever that are really meant for a large-scale theatrical distribution . it 's just not that many .
but half of those were indian .
but anyway , it 's doable , but we 've only found about a thousand of these things that -- to be out of copyright .
so we 've digitized those and made those available .
but we 've found that there 's lots of other types of movies that haven 't really seen the light of day -- archival films .
we 've found , also , a lot of political films , a lot of amateur films , all sorts of things that are basically needing a home , a permanent home .
so we 've been starting to make these available and it 's grown to be very popular .
we 're not quite a youtube . we tended towards longer-term things and also things that people can reuse and make into new movies , which has just been great fun .
television comes quite a bit larger .
we started recording 20 channels of television 24 hours a day .
it 's sort of the biggest tivo box you 've ever seen .
it 's about a petabyte , so far , of worldwide television -- russian , chinese , japanese , iraqi , al jazeera , bbc , cnn , abc , cbs , nbc -- 24 hours a day .
we only put one week up , which is mostly for cost reasons , which is the 9 / 11 , sort of from 9 / 11 / 2001 . for one week , what did the world see ?
cnn was saying that palestinians were dancing in the streets .
were they ? let 's look at the palestinian television and find out .
how can we have critical thinking without being able to quote
and being able to compare what happened in the past ?
and television is dreadfully unrecorded and unquotable , except by jon stewart , who does a fabulous job .
so anyway , television is , i would suggest , within our grasp .
so 15 dollars per video hour , and also about 100 dollars to 150 dollars per celluloid hour , we 're able to go and get materials online very inexpensively and have them up on the net .
and we 've got , now , a lot of these materials .
so we 've got about 100,000 pieces up there .
so books , music , video , software . there 's only 50,000 titles of it .
mostly the issues there are legal issues and breaking copy protections .
but we 've worked through some of those , but we 've still got real problems in washington .
well , we 're best known as the world wide web .
we 've been archiving the world wide web since 1996 .
we take a snapshot of every website and all of the pages on it , every two months .
and actually , it 's really been pioneered by alexa internet , which donates this collection to the internet archive .
and it 's been growing along for the last 11 years , and it 's a fantastic resource .
and we 've made a wayback machine that you can then go and see old websites kind of the way they were .
if you go and search on something -- this is google.com , the different versions of it that we have , this is what it looks like when it was an alpha release , and this is what it looked like at stanford .
so anyway , you 've got basically an idea of where things came from .
mostly , people want to see their old stuff out of this .
if there 's one thing that we want to learn from the library of alexandria version one , which is probably best known for burning , is , don 't just have one copy .
so we 've started to -- we 've made another copy of all of this and we actually put it back in the library of alexandria .
so this is a picture of the internet archive at the library of alexandria .
and we now have also another copy building up in amsterdam .
so , we should put it in the san andreas fault line in san francisco , flood zone in amsterdam and in the middle east . right , so anyway ...
so we 're hedging our bets here .
if we go and put it in a couple more places , i think we 'll be in good shape .
there 's a political and social question out of this .
is all of this , as we go digital , is it going to be public or private ?
there 's some large companies that have seen this vision , that are doing large-scale digitization , but they 're locking up the public domain .
the question is , is that the world that we really want to live in ?
what 's the role of the public versus the private as things go forward ?
how do we go and have a world where we both have libraries and publishing in the future , just as we basically benefited as we were growing up ?
so universal access to all knowledge -- i think it can be one of the greatest achievements of humankind , like the man on the moon , or the gutenberg bible , or the library of alexandria .
it could be something that we 're remembered for , for millennia , for having achieved .
and as i said before , i 'll end with something that 's carved above the door of the carnegie library . carnegie -- one of the great capitalists of this country -- carved above his legacy , " free to the people . "
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / stacey _ kramer _ the _ best _ gift _ i _ ever _ survived.html
stacey kramer offers a moving , personal , 3-minute parable that shows how an unwanted experience -- frightening , traumatic , costly -- can turn out to be a priceless gift .
cancer , medicine , personal growth , storytelling
975
stacey kramer : the best gift i ever survived
imagine , if you will -- a gift .
i 'd like for you to picture it in your mind .
it 's not too big -- about the size of a golf ball .
so envision what it looks like all wrapped up .
but before i show you what 's inside , i will tell you , it 's going to do incredible things for you .
it will bring all of your family together .
you will feel loved and appreciated like never before and reconnect with friends and acquaintances you haven 't heard from in years .
adoration and admiration will overwhelm you .
it will recalibrate what 's most important in your life .
it will redefine your sense of spirituality and faith .
you 'll have a new understanding and trust in your body .
you 'll have unsurpassed vitality and energy .
you 'll expand your vocabulary , meet new people , and you 'll have a healthier lifestyle .
and get this -- you 'll have an eight-week vacation of doing absolutely nothing .
you 'll eat countless gourmet meals .
flowers will arrive by the truckload .
people will say to you , " you look great . have you had any work done ? "
and you 'll have a lifetime supply of good drugs .
you 'll be challenged , inspired , motivated and humbled .
your life will have new meaning .
peace , health , serenity , happiness , nirvana .
the price ?
$ 55,000 ,
and that 's an incredible deal .
by now i know you 're dying to know what it is and where you can get one .
does amazon carry it ?
does it have the apple logo on it ?
is there a waiting list ?
not likely .
this gift came to me about five months ago .
it looked more like this when it was all wrapped up -- not quite so pretty .
and this ,
and then this .
it was a rare gem -- a brain tumor , hemangioblastoma -- the gift that keeps on giving .
and while i 'm okay now , i wouldn 't wish this gift for you .
i 'm not sure you 'd want it .
but i wouldn 't change my experience .
it profoundly altered my life in ways i didn 't expect in all the ways i just shared with you .
so the next time you 're faced with something that 's unexpected , unwanted and uncertain , consider that it just may be a gift .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / paul _ stamets _ on _ 6 _ ways _ mushrooms _ can _ save _ the _ world.html
mycologist paul stamets lists 6 ways the mycelium fungus can help save the universe : cleaning polluted soil , making insecticides , treating smallpox and even flu ... < a href = " http : / / www.ted.com / index.php / speakers / view / id / 229 " target = " _ blank " > read more < / a > .
biology , design , food , global issues , pollution , science , technology
258
paul stamets on 6 ways mushrooms can save the world
i love a challenge , and saving the earth is probably a good one .
we all know the earth is in trouble .
we have now entered in the 6x , the sixth major extinction on this planet .
i often wondered , if there was a united organization of organisms -- otherwise known as " uh-oh " -- -- and every organism had a right to vote , would we be voted on the planet , or off the planet ?
i think that vote is occurring right now .
i want to present to you a suite of six mycological solutions , using fungi , and these solutions are based on mycelium .
the mycelium infuses all landscapes , it holds soils together , it 's extremely tenacious .
this holds up to 30,000 times its mass .
they 're the grand molecular disassemblers of nature -- the soil magicians .
they generate the humus soils across the landmasses of earth .
we have now discovered that there is a multi-directional transfer of nutrients between plants , mitigated by the mcyelium -- so the mycelium is the mother that is giving nutrients from alder and birch trees to hemlocks , cedars and douglas firs .
dusty and i , we like to say , on sunday , this is where we go to church .
i 'm in love with the old-growth forest , and i 'm a patriotic american because we have those .
most of you are familiar with portobello mushrooms .
and frankly , i face a big obstacle . when i mention mushrooms to somebody , they immediately think portobellos or magic mushrooms , their eyes glaze over , and they think i 'm a little crazy .
so , i hope to pierce that prejudice forever with this group .
we call it mycophobia , the irrational fear of the unknown , when it comes to fungi .
mushrooms are very fast in their growth .
day 21 , day 23 , day 25 .
mushrooms produce strong antibiotics .
in fact , we 're more closely related to fungi than we are to any other kingdom .
a group of 20 eukaryotic microbiologists published a paper two years ago erecting opisthokonta -- a super-kingdom that joins animalia and fungi together .
we share in common the same pathogens .
fungi don 't like to rot from bacteria , and so our best antibiotics come from fungi .
but here is a mushroom that 's past its prime .
after they sporulate , they do rot .
but i propose to you that the sequence of microbes that occur on rotting mushrooms are essential for the health of the forest .
they give rise to the trees , they create the debris fields that feed the mycelium .
and so we see a mushroom here sporulating .
and the spores are germinating , and the mycelium forms and goes underground .
in a single cubic inch of soil , there can be more than eight miles of these cells .
my foot is covering approximately 300 miles of mycelium .
this is photomicrographs from nick read and patrick hickey .
and notice that as the mycelium grows , it conquers territory and then it begins the net .
i 've been a scanning electron microscopist for many years , i have thousands of electron micrographs , and when i 'm staring at the mycelium , i realize that they are microfiltration membranes .
we exhale carbon dioxide , so does mycelium .
it inhales oxygen , just like we do .
but these are essentially externalized stomachs and lungs .
and i present to you a concept that these are extended neurological membranes .
and in these cavities , these micro-cavities form , and as they fuse soils , they absorb water .
these are little wells .
and inside these wells , then microbial communities begin to form .
and so the spongy soil not only resists erosion , but sets up a microbial universe that gives rise to a plurality of other organisms .
i first proposed , in the early 1990s , that mycelium is earth 's natural internet .
when you look at the mycelium , they 're highly branched .
and if there 's one branch that is broken , then very quickly , because of the nodes of crossing -- internet engineers maybe call them hot points -- there are alternative pathways for channeling nutrients and information .
the mycelium is sentient .
it knows that you are there .
when you walk across landscapes , it leaps up in the aftermath of your footsteps trying to grab debris .
so , i believe the invention of the computer internet is an inevitable consequence of a previously proven , biologically successful model .
the earth invented the computer internet for its own benefit , and we now , being the top organism on this planet , are trying to allocate resources in order to protect the biosphere .
going way out , dark matter conforms to the same mycelial archetype .
i believe matter begets life ; life becomes single cells ; single cells become strings ; strings become chains ; chains network .
and this is the paradigm that we see throughout the universe .
most of you may not know that fungi were the first organisms to come to land .
they came to land 1.3 billion years ago , and plants followed several hundred million years later .
how is that possible ?
it 's possible because the mycelium produces oxalic acids , and many other acids and enzymes , pockmarking rock and grabbing calcium and other minerals and forming calcium oxalates .
makes the rocks crumble , and the first step in the generation of soil .
oxalic acid is two carbon dioxide molecules joined together .
so , fungi and mycelium sequester carbon dioxide in the form of calcium oxalates .
and all sorts of other oxalates are also sequestering carbon dioxide through the minerals that are being formed and taken out of the rock matrix .
this was first discovered in 1859 .
this is a photograph by franz hueber .
this photograph 's taken 1950s in saudi arabia .
420 million years ago , this organism existed .
it was called prototaxites .
prototaxites , laying down , was about three feet tall .
the tallest plants on earth at that time were less than two feet .
dr. boyce , at the university of chicago , published an article in the journal of geology this past year determining that prototaxites was a giant fungus , a giant mushroom .
across the landscapes of earth were dotted these giant mushrooms .
all across most land masses .
and these existed for tens of millions of years .
now , we 've had several extinction events , and as we march forward -- 65 million years ago -- most of you know about it -- we had an asteroid impact .
the earth was struck by an asteroid , a huge amount of debris was jettisoned into the atmosphere .
sunlight was cut off , and fungi inherited the earth .
those organisms that paired with fungi were rewarded , because fungi do not need light .
more recently , at einstein university , they just determined that fungi use radiation as a source of energy , much like plants use light .
so , the prospect of fungi existing on other planets elsewhere , i think , is a forgone conclusion , at least in my own mind .
the largest organism in the world is in eastern oregon .
i couldn 't miss it . it was 2,200 acres in size :
2,200 acres in size , 2,000 years old .
the largest organism on the planet is a mycelial mat , one cell wall thick .
how is it that this organism can be so large , and yet be one cell wall thick , whereas we have five or six skin layers that protect us ?
the mycelium , in the right conditions , produces a mushroom -- it bursts through with such ferocity that it can break asphalt .
we were involved with several experiments .
i 'm going to show you six , if i can , solutions for helping to save the world .
battelle laboratories and i joined up in bellingham , washington .
there were four piles saturated with diesel and other petroleum waste :
one was a control pile ; one pile was treated with enzymes ; one pile was treated with bacteria ; and our pile we inoculated with mushroom mycelium .
the mycelium absorbs the oil .
the mycelium is producing enzymes -- peroxidases -- that break carbon-hydrogen bonds .
these are the same bonds that hold hydrocarbons together .
so , the mycelium becomes saturated with the oil , and then , when we returned six weeks later , all the tarps were removed , all the other piles were dead , dark and stinky .
we came back to our pile , it was covered with hundreds of pounds of oyster mushrooms , and the color changed to a light form .
the enzymes remanufactured the hydrocarbons into carbohydrates -- fungal sugars .
some of these mushrooms are very happy mushrooms .
they 're very large .
they 're showing how much nutrition that they could 've obtained .
but something else happened , which was an epiphany in my life .
they sporulated , the spores attract insects , the insects laid eggs , eggs became larvae .
birds then came , bringing in seeds , and our pile became an oasis of life .
whereas the other three piles were dead , dark and stinky , and the pah 's -- the aromatic hydrocarbons -- went from 10,000 parts per million to less than 200 in eight weeks .
the last image we don 't have . the entire pile was a green berm of life .
these are gateway species ,
vanguard species that open the door for other biological communities .
so i invented burlap sacks , bunker spawn -- and putting the mycelium -- using storm blown debris , you can take these burlap sacks and put them downstream from a farm that 's producing e. coli , or other wastes , or a factory with chemical toxins , and it leads to habitat restoration .
so , we set up a site in mason county , washington , and we 've seen a dramatic decrease in the amount of coliforms .
and i 'll show you a graph here .
this is a logarithmic scale , 10 to the eighth power .
there 's more than a 100 million colonies per gram , and 10 to the third power is around 1,000 .
in 48 hours to 72 hours , these three mushroom species reduced the amount of coliform bacteria 10,000 times .
think of the implications .
this is a space-conservative method that uses storm debris -- and we can guarantee that we will have storms every year .
so , this one mushroom , in particular , has drawn our interest over time .
this is my wife dusty , with a mushroom called fomitopsis officinalis -- agarikon .
it 's a mushroom exclusive to the old-growth forest that dioscorides first described in 65 a.d .
as a treatment against consumption .
this mushroom grows in washington state , oregon , northern california , british columbia , now thought to be extinct in europe .
may not seem that large -- let 's get closer .
this is extremely rare fungus .
our team -- and we have a team of experts that go out -- we went out 20 times in the old-growth forest last year .
we found one sample to be able to get into culture .
preserving the genome of these fungi in the old-growth forest i think is absolutely critical for human health .
i 've been involved with the u.s. defense department bioshield program .
we submitted over 300 samples of mushrooms that were boiled in hot water , and mycelium harvesting these extracellular metabolites .
and a few years ago , we received these results .
we have three different strains of agarikon mushrooms that were highly active against poxviruses .
dr. earl kern , who 's a smallpox expert of the u.s. defense department , states that any compounds that have a selectivity index of two or more are active .
10 or greater are considered to be very active .
our mushroom strains were in the highly active range .
there 's a vetted press release that you can read -- it 's vetted by dod -- if you google " stamets " and " smallpox . " or you can go to npr.org and listen to a live interview .
so , encouraged by this , naturally we went to flu viruses .
and so , for the first time , i am showing this .
we have three different strains of agarikon mushrooms highly active against flu viruses .
here 's the selectivity index numbers -- against pox , you saw 10s and 20s -- now against flu viruses , compared to the ribavirin controls , we have an extraordinarily high activity .
and we 're using a natural extract within the same dosage window as a pure pharmaceutical .
we tried it against flu a viruses -- h1n1 , h3n2 -- as well as flu b viruses .
so then we tried a blend , and in a blend combination we tried it against h5n1 , and we got greater than 1,000 selectivity index .
i then think that we can make the argument that we should save the old-growth forest as a matter of national defense .
i became interested in entomopathogenic fungi -- fungi that kill insects .
our house was being destroyed by carpenter ants .
so , i went to the epa homepage , and they were recommending studies with metarhizium species of a group of fungi that kill carpenter ants , as well as termites .
i did something that nobody else had done .
i actually chased the mycelium , when it stopped producing spores .
these are spores -- this is in their spores .
i was able to morph the culture into a non-sporulating form .
and so the industry has spent over 100 million dollars specifically on bait stations to prevent termites from eating your house .
but the insects aren 't stupid , and they would avoid the spores when they came close , and so i morphed the cultures into a non-sporulating form .
and i got my daughter 's barbie doll dish , i put it right where a bunch of carpenter ants were making debris fields , every day , in my house , and the ants were attracted to the mycelium , because there 's no spores .
they gave it to the queen .
one week later , i had no sawdust piles whatsoever .
and then -- a delicate dance between dinner and death -- the mycelium is consumed by the ants , they become mummified , and , boing , a mushroom pops out of their head .
now after sporulation , the spores repel .
so , the house is no longer suitable for invasion .
so , you have a near-permanent solution for reinvasion of termites .
and so my house came down , i received my first patent against carpenter ants , termites and fire ants .
then we tried extracts , and lo and behold , we can steer insects to different directions .
this has huge implications .
i then received my second patent -- and this is a big one .
it 's been called an alexander graham bell patent . it covers over 200,000 species .
this is the most disruptive technology -- i 've been told by executives of the pesticide industry -- that they have ever witnessed .
this could totally revamp the pesticide industries throughout the world .
you could fly 100 ph.d. students under the umbrella of this concept , because my supposition is that entomopathogenic fungi , prior to sporulation , attract the very insects
that are otherwise repelled by those spores .
and so i came up with a life box , because i needed a delivery system .
the life box -- you 're gonna be getting a dvd of the ted conference -- you add soil , you add water , you have mycorrhizal and endophytic fungi as well as spores , like of the agarikon mushroom .
the seeds then are mothered by this mycelium . and then you put tree seeds in here , and then you end up growing -- potentially -- an old-growth forest from a cardboard box .
i want to reinvent the delivery system , and the use of cardboard around the world , so they become ecological footprints .
if there 's a youtube-like site that you could put up , you could make it interactive , zip code specific -- where people could join together , and through satellite imaging systems , through virtual earth or google earth , you could confirm carbon credits are being sequestered
by the trees that are coming through life boxes .
you could take a cardboard box delivering shoes , you could add water -- i developed this for the refugee community -- corns , beans and squash and onions .
i took several containers -- my wife said , if i could do this , anybody could -- and i ended up growing a seed garden . then you harvest the seeds -- and thank you , eric rasmussen , for your help on this -- and then you 're harvesting the seed garden .
then you can harvest the kernels , and then you just need a few kernels . i add mycelium to it , and then i inoculate the corncobs .
now , three corncobs , no other grain -- lots of mushrooms begin to form . too many withdrawals from the carbon bank , and so this population will be shut down .
but watch what happens here .
the mushrooms then are harvested , but very importantly , the mycelium has converted the cellulose into fungal sugars .
and so i thought , how could we address the energy crisis in this country ?
and we came up with econol .
generating ethanol from cellulose using mycelium as an intermediary -- and you gain all the benefits that i 've described to you already .
but to go from cellulose to ethanol is ecologically unintelligent , and i think that we need to be econologically intelligent about the generation of fuels .
so , we build the carbon banks on the planet , renew the soils . these are a species that we need to join with .
i think engaging mycelium can help save the world .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jane _ poynter _ life _ in _ biosphere _ 2.html
at tedxusc , jane poynter tells her story of living two years and 20 minutes in biosphere 2 -- an experience that provoked her to explore how we might sustain life in the harshest of environments .
adventure , biosphere , biotech , climate change , environment , space
573
jane poynter : life in biosphere 2
i have had the distinct pleasure of living inside two biospheres .
of course we all here in this room live in biosphere 1 .
i 've also lived in biosphere 2 .
and the wonderful thing about that is that i get to compare biospheres . and hopefully from that i get to learn something .
so what did i learn ? well , here i am inside biosphere 2 , making a pizza .
so i am harvesting the wheat , in order to make the dough .
and then of course i have to milk the goats and feed the goats in order to make the cheese .
it took me four months in biosphere 2 to make a pizza .
here in biosphere 1 , well it takes me about two minutes ,
because i pick up the phone and i call and say , " hey , can you deliver the pizza ? "
so biosphere 2 was essentially a three-acre , entirely sealed , miniature world that i lived in for two years and 20 minutes .
over the top it was sealed with steel and glass ,
underneath it was sealed with a pan of steel --
essentially entirely sealed .
so we had our own miniature rainforest , a private beach with a coral reef .
we had a savanna , a marsh , a desert .
we had our own half-acre farm that we had to grow everything .
and of course we had our human habitat , where we lived .
back in the mid- ' 80s when we were designing biosphere 2 , we had to ask ourselves some pretty basic questions .
i mean , what is a biosphere ?
back then , yes , i guess we all know now that it is essentially the sphere of life around the earth , right ?
well , you have to get a little more specific than that if you 're going to build one .
and so we decided that what it really is is that it is entirely materially closed -- that is , nothing goes in or out at all , no material -- and energetically open ,
which is essentially what planet earth is .
this is a chamber that was 1 / 400th the size of biosphere 2 that we called our test module .
and the very first day that this fellow , john allen , walked in , to spend a couple of days in there with all the plants and animals and bacteria that we 'd put in there to hopefully keep him alive , the doctors were incredibly concerned that he was going to succumb to some dreadful toxin , or that his lungs were going to get choked with bacteria or something , fungus .
but of course none of that happened .
and over the ensuing few years , there were great sagas about designing biosphere 2 .
but by 1991 we finally had this thing built .
and it was time for us to go in and give it a go .
we needed to know , is life this malleable ?
can you take this biosphere , that has evolved on a planetary scale , and jam it into a little bottle , and will it survive ?
big questions .
and we wanted to know this both for being able to go somewhere else in the universe -- if we were going to go to mars , for instance , would we take a biosphere with us , to live in it ? we also wanted to know so we can understand more about the earth that we all live in .
well , in 1991 it was finally time for us to go in and try out this baby .
let 's take it on a maiden voyage .
will it work ? or will something happen that we can 't understand and we can 't fix ,
thereby negating the concept of man-made biospheres ?
so eight of us went in : four men and four women .
more on that later .
and this is the world that we lived in .
so , on the top , we had these beautiful rainforests and an ocean ,
and underneath we had all this technosphere , we called it ,
which is where all the pumps and the valves and the water tanks and the air handlers , and all of that .
one of the biospherians called it " garden of eden on top of an aircraft carrier . "
and then also we had the human habitat of course , with the laboratories , and all of that .
this is the agriculture .
it was essentially an organic farm .
the day i walked into biosphere 2 , i was , for the first time , breathing a completely different atmosphere than everybody else in the world , except seven other people .
at that moment i became part of that biosphere .
and i don 't mean that in an abstract sense ;
i mean it rather literally .
when i breathed out , my co2 fed the sweet potatoes that i was growing .
and we ate an awful lot of the sweet potatoes .
and those sweet potatoes became part of me .
in fact , we ate so many sweet potatoes i became orange with sweet potato .
i literally was eating the same carbon over and over again .
i was eating myself in some strange sort of bizarre way .
when it came to our atmosphere , however , it wasn 't that much of a joke over the long term ,
because it turned out that we were losing oxygen , quite a lot of oxygen .
and we knew that we were losing co2 .
and so we were working to sequester carbon .
good lord -- we know that term now .
we were growing plants like crazy .
we were taking their biomass , storing them in the basement , growing plants , going around , around , around , trying to take all of that carbon out of the atmosphere .
we were trying to stop carbon from going into the atmosphere .
we stopped irrigating our soil , as much as we could .
we stopped tilling , so that we could prevent greenhouse gasses from going into the air .
but our oxygen was going down faster than our co2 was going up , which was quite unexpected ,
because we had seen them going in tandem in the test module .
and it was like playing atomic hide-and-seek .
we had lost seven tons of oxygen .
and we had no clue where it was .
and i tell you , when you lose a lot of oxygen -- and our oxygen went down quite far ; it went from 21 percent down to 14.2 percent -- my goodness , do you feel dreadful .
i mean we were dragging ourselves around the biosphere .
and we had sleep apnea at night .
so you 'd wake up gasping with breath , because your blood chemistry has changed .
and that you literally do that . you stop breathing and then you -- -- take a breath and it wakes you up . and it 's very irritating .
and everybody outside thought we were dying .
i mean , the media was making it sound like were were dying .
and i had to call up my mother every other day saying , " no , mum , it 's fine , fine .
we 're not dead . we 're fine . we 're fine . " and the doctor was , in fact , checking us to make sure we were , in fact , fine .
but in fact he was the person who was most susceptible to the oxygen .
and one day he couldn 't add up a line of figures .
and it was time for us to put oxygen in .
and you might think , well , " boy , your life support system was failing you . wasn 't that dreadful ? " yes . in a sense it was terrifying .
except that i knew i could walk out the airlock door at any time , if it really got bad ,
though who was going to say , " i can 't take it anymore ! " ?
not me , that was for sure .
but on the other hand , it was the scientific gold of the project ,
because we could really crank this baby up , as a scientific tool , and see if we could , in fact , find where those seven tons of oxygen had gone .
and we did indeed find it .
and we found it in the concrete .
essentially it had done something very simple .
we had put too much carbon in the soil in the form of compost .
it broke down ; it took oxygen out of the air ;
it put co2 into the air ; and it went into the concrete .
pretty straightforward really .
so at the end of the two years when we came out , we were elated ,
because , in fact , although you might say we had discovered something that was quite " uhh , " when your oxygen is going down , stopped working , essentially , in your life support system , that 's a very bad failure .
except that we knew what it was . and we knew how to fix it .
and nothing else emerged that really was as serious as that .
and we proved the concept , more or less .
people , on the other hand , was a different subject .
we were -- yeah i don 't know that we were fixable .
we all went quite nuts , i will say .
and the day i came out of biosphere 2 , i was thrilled i was going to see all my family and my friends .
for two years i 'd been seeing people through the glass .
and everybody ran up to me .
and i recoiled . they stank !
people stink !
we stink of hairspray and underarm deodorant , and all kinds of stuff .
now we had stuff inside biosphere to keep ourselves clean ,
but nothing with perfume .
and boy do we stink out here .
not only that , but i lost touch of where my food came from .
i had been growing all my own food .
i had no idea what was in my food , where it came from .
i didn 't even recognize half the names in most of the food that i was eating .
in fact , i would stand for hours in the aisles of shops , reading all the names on all of the things .
people must have thought i was nuts .
it was really quite astonishing .
and i slowly lost track of where i was in this big biosphere , in this big biosphere that we all live in .
in biosphere 2 i totally understood that i had a huge impact on my biosphere , everyday , and it had an impact on me , very viscerally , very literally .
so i went about my business : paragon space development corporation , a little firm i started with people while i was in the biosphere , because i had nothing else to do .
and one of the things we did was try to figure out : how small can you make these biospheres ,
and what can you do with them ?
and so we sent one onto the mir space station .
we had one on the shuttle and one on the international space station , for 16 months , where we managed to produce the first organisms to go through complete multiple life cycles in space --
really pushing the envelope of understanding how malleable our life systems are .
and i 'm also proud to announce that you 're getting a sneak preview -- on friday we 're going to announce that we 're actually forming a team to develop a system to grow plants on the moon ,
which is going to be pretty fun .
and the legacy of that is a system that we were designing : an entirely sealed system to grow plants to grow on mars .
and part of that is that we had to model very rapid circulation of co2 and oxygen and water through this plant system .
as a result of that modeling i ended up in all places , in eritrea , in the horn of africa .
eritrea , formerly part of ethiopia , is one of those places that is astonishingly beautiful , incredibly stark , and i have no understanding of how people eke out a living there .
it is so dry .
this is what i saw .
but this is also what i saw .
i saw a company that had taken seawater and sand , and they were growing a kind of crop that will grow on pure salt water without having to treat it .
and it will produce a food crop .
in this case it was oilseed .
it was astonishing . they were also producing mangroves in a plantation .
and the mangroves were providing wood and honey and leaves for the animals , so that they could produce milk and whatnot , like we had in the biosphere .
and all of it was coming from this : shrimp farms .
shrimp farms are a scourge on the earth , frankly , from an environmental point of view .
they pour huge amounts of pollutants into the ocean .
they also pollute their next-door neighbors .
and what this project was doing was taking the effluent of these , and turning them into all of this food .
they were literally turning pollution into abundance for a desert people .
they had created an industrial ecosystem , of a sense .
i was there because i was actually modeling the mangrove portion for a carbon credit program , under the u.n. kyoto protocol system .
and as i was modeling this mangrove swamp , i was thinking to myself , " how do you put a box around this ? " when i 'm modeling a plant in a box , literally , i know where to draw the boundary .
in a mangrove forest like this i have no idea .
well , of course you have to draw the boundary around the whole of the earth .
and understand its interactions with the entire earth .
and put your project in that context .
around the world today we 're seeing an incredible transformation , from what i would call a biocidal species , one that -- whether we intentionally or unintentionally -- have designed our systems to kill life , a lot of the time .
this is in fact , this beautiful photograph , is in fact over the amazon . and here the light green are areas of massive deforestation .
and those beautiful wispy clouds are , in fact , fires , human-made fires .
we 're in the process of transforming from this , to what i would call a biophilic society , one where we learn to nurture society .
now it may not seem like it , but we are .
it is happening all across the world , in every kind of walk of life , and every kind of career and industry that you can think of .
and i think often times people get lost in that .
they go , " but how can i possibly find my way in that ?
it 's such a huge subject . " and i would say that the small stuff counts . it really does .
this is the story of a rake in my backyard .
this was my backyard , very early on , when i bought my property .
and in arizona , of course , everybody puts gravel down .
and they like to keep everything beautifully raked . and they keep all the leaves away .
and on sunday morning the neighbors leaf blower comes out , and i want to throttle them .
it 's a certain type of aesthetic .
we 're very uncomfortable with untidiness .
and i threw away my rake .
and i let all of the leaves fall from the trees that i have on my property .
and over time , essentially what have i been doing ?
i 've been building topsoil .
and so now all the birds come in . and i have hawks .
and i have an oasis .
this is what happens every spring . for six weeks , six to eight weeks , i have this flush of green oasis .
this is actually in a riparian area .
and all of tucson could be like this if everybody would just revolt and throw away the rake .
the small stuff counts .
the industrial revolution -- and prometheus -- has given us this , the ability to light up the world .
it has also given us this , the ability to look at the world from the outside .
now we may not all have another biosphere that we can run to , and compare it to this biosphere .
but we can look at the world , and try to understand where we are in its context , and how we choose to interact with it .
and if you lose where you are in your biosphere , or are perhaps having a difficulty connecting with where you are in the biosphere , i would say to you , take a deep breath .
the yogis had it right .
breath does , in fact , connect us all
in a very literal way .
take a breath now .
and as you breathe , think about what is in your breath .
there perhaps is the co2 from the person sitting next-door to you .
maybe there is a little bit of oxygen from some algae on the beach not far from here .
it also connects us in time .
there may be some carbon in your breath from the dinosaurs .
there could also be carbon that you are exhaling now that will be in the breath of your great-great-great-grandchildren .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / dennis _ vanengelsdorp _ a _ plea _ for _ bees.html
bees are dying in droves . why ? leading apiarist dennis vanengelsdorp looks at the gentle , misunderstood creature 's important place in nature and the mystery behind its alarming disappearance .
animals , disease , food , insects , life , nature
416
dennis vanengelsdorp : a plea for bees
what i 'd like you to do is , just really quickly , is just , sort of , nod to the person on your right , and then nod to the person on your left .
now , chances are that over the last winter , if you had been a beehive , either you or one of the two people you just nodded at would have died .
now , that 's an awful lot of bees .
and this is the second year in a row we have lost over 30 percent of the colonies , or we estimate we 've lost 30 percent of the colonies over the winter .
now , that 's a lot , a lot of bees , and that 's really important .
and most of those losses are because of things we know .
we know that there are these varroa mites that have introduced and caused a lot of losses , and we also have this new phenomenon , which i talked about last year , colony collapse disorder .
and here we see a picture on top of a hill in central valley last december .
and below , you can see all these out yards , or temporary yards , where the colonies are brought in until february , and then they 're shipped out to the almonds .
and one documentary writer , who was here and looked at this two months after i was here , described this not as beehives but as a graveyard , with these empty white boxes with no bees left in them .
now , i 'm going to sum up a year 's worth of work in two sentences to say that we have been trying to figure out what the cause of this is .
and what we know is that it 's as if the bees have caught a flu .
and this flu has wiped through the population of bees .
in some cases , and in fact in most cases in one year , this flu was caused by a new virus to us , or newly identified by us , called israeli acute paralysis virus .
it was called that because a guy in israel first found it , and he now regrets profoundly calling it that disease , because , of course , there 's the implication .
but we think this virus is pretty ubiquitous .
it 's also pretty clear that the bees sometimes catch other viruses or other flus , and so the question we 're still struggling with , and the question that keeps us up at night , is why have the bees suddenly become so susceptible to this flu , and why are they so susceptible to these other diseases ?
and we don 't have the answer to that yet , and we spend a lot of time trying to figure that out .
we think perhaps it 's a combination of factors .
we know from the work of a very large and dynamic working team that , you know , we 're finding a lot of different pesticides in the hive , and surprisingly , sometimes the healthiest hives have the most pesticides . and so we discover all these very strange things that we can 't begin to understand .
and so this opens up the whole idea of looking at colony health .
now of course , if you lose a lot of colonies , beekeepers can replace them very quickly .
and that 's why we 've been able to recover from a lot of loss .
if we lost one in every three cows in the winter , you know , the national guard would be out .
but what beekeepers can do is , if they have one surviving colony , they can split that colony in two .
and then the one half that doesn 't have a queen , they can buy a queen .
it comes in the mail ; it can come from australia or hawaii or florida , and you can introduce that queen .
and in fact , america was the first country that ever did mail-delivery queens and in fact , it 's part of the postal code that you have to deliver queens by mail in order to make sure that we have enough bees in this country .
if you don 't just want a queen , you can buy , actually , a three-pound package of bees , which comes in the mail , and of course , the postal office is always very concerned when they get , you know , your three-pound packages of bees .
and you can install this in your hive and replace that dead-out .
so it means that beekeepers are very good at replacing dead-outs , and so they 've been able to cover those losses .
so even though we 've lost 30 percent of the colonies every year , the same number of colonies have existed in the country , at about 2.4 million colonies .
now , those losses are tragic on many fronts , and one of those fronts is for the beekeeper .
and it 's really important to talk about beekeepers first , because beekeepers are among the most fascinating people you 'll ever meet .
if this was a group of beekeepers , you would have everyone from the card-carrying nra member who 's , you know , live free or die , to the , you know , the self-expressed quirky san francisco backyard pig farmer .
and you get all of these people in the same room , and they 're all engaged and they 're getting along , and they 're all there because of the passion for bees .
now , there 's another part of that community which are the commercial beekeepers , the ones who make their livelihood from beekeeping alone .
and these tend to be some of the most independent , tenacious , intuitive , you know , inventive people you will ever meet .
they 're just fascinating . and they 're like that all over the world .
i had the privilege of working in haiti just for two weeks earlier this year .
and haiti , if you 've ever been there , is just a tragedy .
i mean , there may be 100 explanations for why haiti is the impoverished nation it is , but there is no excuse to see that sort of squalor .
but you meet this beekeeper , and i met this beekeeper here , and he is one of the most knowledgeable beekeepers i 've ever met .
no formal education , but very knowledgeable .
we needed beeswax for a project we were working on ; he was so capable , he was able to render the nicest block of beeswax i have ever seen from cow dung , tin cans and his veil , which he used as a screening , right in this meadow . and so that ingenuity is inspiring .
we also have dave hackenberg , who is the poster child of ccd .
he 's the one who first identified this condition and raised the alarm bells .
and he has a history of these trucks , and he 's moved these bees up and down the coast .
and a lot of people talk about trucks and moving bees , and that being bad , but we 've done that for thousands of years .
the ancient egyptians used to move bees up and down the nile on rafts , so this idea of a movable bee force is not new at all .
and one of our real worries with colony collapse disorder is the fact that it costs so much money to replace those dead-out colonies .
and you can do that one year in a row , you may be able to do it two years in a row .
but if you 're losing 50 percent to 80 percent of your colonies , you can 't survive three years in a row . and we 're really worried about losing this segment of our industry .
and that 's important for many fronts , and one of them is because of that culture that 's in agriculture .
and these migratory beekeepers are the last nomads of america .
you know , they pick up their hives ; they move their families once or twice in a year .
and if you look at florida , in dade city , florida , that 's where all the pennsylvania beekeepers go .
and then 20 miles down the road is groveland , and that 's where all the wisconsin beekeepers go .
and if you 're ever in central valley in february , you go to this cafe at 10 o 'clock in the morning , kathy and kate 's .
and that 's where all the beekeepers come after a night of moving bees into the almond groves .
they all have their breakfast and complain about everyone right there . and it 's a great experience , and i really encourage you to drop in at that diner during that time , because that 's quite essential american experience .
and we see these families , these nomadic families , you know , father to son , father to son , and these guys are hurting .
and they 're not people who like to ask for help , although they are the most helpful people ever .
if there 's one guy who loses all his bees because of a truck overhaul , everyone pitches in and gives 20 hives to help him replace those lost colonies .
and so , it 's a very dynamic , and i think , historic and exciting community to be involved with .
of course , the real importance for bees is not the honey .
and although i highly encourage you , all use honey .
i mean , it 's the most ethical sweetener , and you know , it 's a dynamic and fun sweetener .
but we estimate that about one in three bites of food we eat is directly or indirectly pollinated by honeybees .
now , i want to just illustrate that in the fact that if we look at the breakfast i had yesterday morning -- a little cranberry juice , some fruits , some granola , i should have had whole wheat bread , i realized , but you know , jam on my wonderbread , and some coffee -- and had we taken out all those ingredients , -- except for the almonds i wasn 't going to pick out from the granola -- if we had taken out all those ingredients the bees had indirectly or directly pollinated , we wouldn 't have much on our plate .
so if we did not have bees , it 's not like we would starve , but clearly our diet would be diminished .
it 's said that for bees , the flower is the fountain of life , and for flowers bees are the messengers of love .
and that 's a really great expression , because really , bees are the sex workers for flowers . they are , you know -- they get paid for their services .
they get paid by pollen and nectar , to move that male sperm , the pollen , from flower to flower . and there are flowers that are self-infertile . that means they can 't -- the pollen in their bloom can 't fertilize themselves .
so in an apple orchard , for instance , you 'll have rows of 10 apples of one variety , and then you have another apple tree that 's a different type of pollen .
and bees are very faithful .
when they 're out pollinating or gathering pollen from one flower , they stay to that crop exclusively , in order to help generate .
and of course , they 're made to carry this pollen .
they build up a static electric charge and the pollen jumps on them and helps spread that pollen from bloom to bloom .
however , honeybees are a minority .
honeybees are not native to america ; they were introduced with the colonialists .
and there are actually more species of bees than there are mammals and birds combined .
in pennsylvania alone , we have been surveying bees for 150 years , and very intensely in the last three years .
we have identified over 400 species of bees in pennsylvania .
thirty-two species have not been identified or found in the state since 1950 .
now , that could be because we haven 't been sampling right , but it does , i think , suggest that something 's wrong with the pollinator force . and these bees are fascinating .
we have bumblebees on the top .
and bumblebees are what we call eusocial : they 're not truly social , because only the queen is , over winter .
we also have the sweat bees , and these are little gems flying around .
they 're like tiny little flies and they fly around .
and then you have another type of bee , which we call kleptoparasites , which is a very fancy way of saying , bad-minded , murdering -- what 's the word i 'm looking for ? murdering -- audience : bee ?
dennis vanengelsdorp : bee . okay , thanks .
what these bees do is , they sit there . these solitary bees , they drill a hole in the ground or drill a hole in a branch , and they collect pollen and make it into a ball , and they lay an egg on it .
well , these bees hang out at that hole , and they wait for that mother to fly away , they go in , eat the egg , and lay their own egg there . so they don 't do any work .
and so , in fact , if you know you have these kleptoparasitic bees , you know that your environment is healthy , because they 're top-of-the-food-chain bees .
and in fact , there is now a red list of pollinators that we 're worried have disappeared , and on top of that list are a lot of these kleptoparasites , but also these bumblebees .
and in fact , if you guys live on the west coast , go to these websites here , and they 're really looking for people to look for some of these bumblebees , because we think some have gone extinct . or some , the population has declined .
and so it 's not just honeybees that are in trouble , but we don 't understand these native pollinators or all those other parts of our community .
and of course , bees are not the only important factor here .
there are other animals that pollinate , like bats , and bats are in trouble too .
and i 'm glad i 'm a bee man and not a bat man , because there 's no money to research the bat problems .
and bats are dying at an extraordinary rate .
white-nose syndrome has wiped out populations of bats .
if there 's a cave in new york that had 15,000 bats in it , and there are 1,000 left . that 's like san francisco becoming the population of half of this county in three years .
and so that 's incredible . and there 's no money to do that . but i 'm glad to say that i think we know the cause of all these conditions , and that cause is ndd : nature deficit disorder .
and that is that i think that what we have in our society is , we forgot our connection with nature .
and i think if we reconnect to nature , we 'll be able to have the resources and that interest to solve these problems .
and i think that there is an easy cure for ndd .
and that is , make meadows and not lawns .
and i think we have lost our connection , and this is a wonderful way of reconnecting to our environment .
i 've had the privilege of living by a meadow for the last little while , and it is terribly engaging .
and if we look at the history of lawns , it 's actually rather tragic .
it used to be , two , three hundred years ago , that a lawn was a symbol of prestige , and so it was only the very rich that could keep these green actually , deserts : they 're totally sterile .
americans spent , in 2001 -- 11 percent of all pesticide use was done on lawns .
five percent of our greenhouse gases are produced by mowing our lawns .
and so it 's incredible the amount of resources we 've spent keeping our lawns , which are these useless biosystems .
and so we need to rethink this idea .
in fact , you know , the white house used to have sheep in front in order to help fund the war effort in world war i , which probably is not a bad idea ; it wouldn 't be a bad idea .
i want to say this not because i 'm opposed completely to mowing lawns .
i think that there is perhaps some advantage to keeping lawns at a limited scale , and i think we 're encouraged to do that .
but i also want to reinforce some of the ideas we 've heard here , because having a meadow or living by a meadow is transformational .
that it is amazing that connection we can have with what 's there .
these milkweed plants have grown up in my meadow over the last four years . add to watch the different plants , or insects , that come to these flowers , to watch that -- and we 've heard about , you know , this relationship you can have with wine , this companion you can have as it matures and as it has these different fragrances .
and this is a companion , and this is a relationship that never dries up .
you never run out of that companion as you drink this wine , too .
and i encourage you to look at that .
now , not all of us have meadows , or lawns that we can convert , and so you can always , of course , grow a meadow in a pot .
bees apparently , can be the gateway to , you know , other things .
so i 'm not saying that you should plant a meadow of pot , but a pot in a meadow .
but you can also have this great community of city or building-top beekeepers , these beekeepers that live -- this is in paris where these beekeepers live .
and everyone should open a beehive , because it is the most amazing , incredible thing .
and if we want to cure ourselves of ndd , or nature deficit disorder , i think this is a great way of doing it .
get a beehive and grow a meadow , and watch that life come back into your life .
and so with that , i think that what we can do , if we do this , we can make sure that our future -- our more perfect future -- includes beekeepers and it includes bees and it includes those meadows .
and that journey -- that journey of transformation that occurs as you grow your meadow and as you keep your bees or you watch those native bees there -- is an extremely exciting one .
and i hope that you experience it and i hope you tell me about it one day .
so thank you very much for being here . thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / a _ whistleblower _ you _ haven _ t _ heard.html
at tedxrotterdam , world champion whistler geert chatrou performs the whimsical " eleonora " by a. honhoff , and his own " fete de la belle . " in a fascinating interlude , he talks about what brought him to the craft .
entertainment , live music , music , performance
1073
a whistleblower you haven 't heard
thank you . thank you very much .
that was whistling .
i 'm trying to do this in english .
what is a chubby , curly-haired guy from holland -- why is he whistling ?
well actually , i 've [ been ] whistling since the age of four , about four .
my dad was always whistling around the house , and i just thought that 's part of communication in my family .
so i whistled along with him .
and actually , till i was 34 , i always annoyed and irritated people with whistling ,
because , to be honest , my whistling is a kind of deviant behavior .
i whistled alone . i whistled in the classroom . i whistled on [ my ] bike . i whistled everywhere .
and i also whistled at a christmas eve party with my family-in-law .
and they had some , in my opinion , terrible christmas music .
and when i hear music that i don 't like , i try to make it better .
so " rudolph the red-nosed reindeer " -- you know it ?
but it can also sound like this .
but during a christmas party -- at dinner actually -- it 's very annoying .
so my sister-in-law asked me a few times , " please stop whistling . "
and i just couldn 't .
and at one point -- and i had some wine , i have to admit that -- at one point i said , " if there was a contest , i would join . "
and two weeks later i received a text message : " you 're going to america . "
so , okay , i 'm going to america .
i would love to , but why ?
so i immediately called her up , of course .
she googled , and she found this world whistling championship in america , of course .
she didn 't expect me to go there .
and i would have lost my face .
i don 't know if that 's correct english .
but the dutch people here will understand what i mean .
i lost my face .
and she thought , " he will never go there . "
but actually i did .
so i went to louisburg , north carolina , southeast united states ,
and i entered the world of whistling .
and i also entered the world championship , and i won there in 2004 .
that was great fun , of course .
and to defend my title -- like judokas do and sportsmen -- i thought , well let 's go back in 2005 , and i won again .
then i couldn 't participate for a few years .
and in 2008 i entered again in japan , tokyo , and i won again .
so what happened now is i 'm standing here in rotterdam , in the beautiful city , on a big stage , and i 'm talking about whistling .
and actually i earn my money whistling at the moment .
so i quit my day job as a nurse .
and i try to live my dream -- well , actually , it was never my dream , but it sounds so good .
okay , i 'm not the only one whistling here .
you say , " huh , what do you mean ? "
well actually , you are going to whistle along .
and then always the same thing happens : people are watching each other and think , " oh , my god .
why ? can i go away ? "
no , you can 't .
actually it 's very simple .
the track that i will whistle is called " fete de la belle . "
it 's about 80 minutes long .
no , no , no . it 's four minutes long .
and i want to first rehearse with you your whistling .
so i whistle the tone .
sorry . i forgot one thing .
you whistle the same tone as me .
i heard a wide variety of tones .
this is very promising .
this is very promising .
i 'll ask the technicians to start the music .
and if it 's started , i just point where you whistle along ,
and we will see what happens .
oh , hah .
i 'm so sorry , technicians .
i 'm so used to that .
i start it myself .
okay , here it is .
okay . it 's easy , isn 't it ?
now comes the solo . i propose i do that myself .
max westerman : geert chatrou , the world champion [ of ] whistling .
geert chatrou : thank you . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / stefano _ mancuso _ the _ roots _ of _ plant _ intelligence.html
plants behave in some oddly intelligent ways : fighting predators , maximizing food opportunities ... but can we think of them as actually having a form of intelligence of their own ? italian botanist stefano mancuso presents intriguing evidence .
biology , collaboration , science
976
stefano mancuso : the roots of plant intelligence
sometimes i go browsing [ through ] a very old magazine .
i found this observation test about the story of the ark .
and the artist that drew this observation test did some errors , had some mistakes --
there are more or less 12 mistakes .
some of them are very easy .
there is a funnel , an aerial part , a lamp and clockwork key on the ark .
some of them are about the animals , the number .
but there is a much more fundamental mistake in the overall story of the ark that 's not reported here .
and this problem is : where are the plants ?
so now we have god that is going to submerge earth permanently or at least for a very long period , and no one is taking care of plants .
noah needed to take two of every kind of bird , of every kind of animal , of every kind of creature that moves , but no mention about plants .
why ?
in another part of the same story , all the living creatures are just the living creatures that came out from the ark , so birds , livestock and wild animals .
plants are not living creatures --
this is the point .
that is a point that is not coming out from the bible , but it 's something that really accompanied humanity .
let 's have a look at this nice code that is coming from a renaissance book .
here we have the description of the order of nature .
it 's a nice description because it 's starting from left -- you have the stones -- immediately after the stones , the plants that are just able to live .
we have the animals that are able to live and to sense , and on the top of the pyramid , there is the man .
this is not the common man .
the " homo studiosus " -- the studying man .
this is quite comforting for people like me -- i 'm a professor -- this to be over there on the top of creation .
but it 's something completely wrong .
you know very well about professors .
but it 's also wrong about plants , because plants are not just able to live ;
they are able to sense .
they are much more sophisticated in sensing than animals .
just to give you an example , every single root apex is able to detect and to monitor concurrently and continuously at least 15 different chemical and physical parameters .
and they also are able to show and to exhibit such a wonderful and complex behavior that can be described just with the term of intelligence .
well , but this is something -- this underestimation of plants is something that is always with us .
let 's have a look at this short movie now .
we have david attenborough .
now david attenborough is really a plant lover ;
he did some of the most beautiful movies about plant behavior .
now , when he speaks about plants , everything is correct .
when he speaks about animals , [ he ] tends to remove the fact that plants exist .
the blue whale , the biggest creature that exists on the planet --
that is wrong , completely wrong .
the blue whale , it 's a dwarf if compared with the real biggest creature that exists on the planet -- that is , this wonderful , magnificent sequoiadendron giganteum .
and this is a living organism that has a mass of at least 2,000 tons .
now , the story that plants are some low-level organisms has been formalized many times ago by aristotle , that in " de anima " -- that is a very influential book for the western civilization -- wrote that the plants are on the edge between living and not living .
they have just a kind of very low-level soul .
it 's called the vegetative soul , because they lack movement , and so they don 't need to sense .
let 's see .
okay , some of the movements of the plants are very well-known .
this is a very fast movement .
this is a dionaea , a venus fly trap hunting snails --
sorry for the snail .
this has been something that has been refused for centuries , despite the evidence .
no one can say that the plants were able to eat an animal , because it was against the order of nature .
but plants are also able to show a lot of movement .
some of them are very well known , like the flowering .
it 's just a question to use some techniques like the time lapse .
some of them are much more sophisticated .
look at this young bean that is moving to catch the light every time .
and it 's really so graceful ;
it 's like a dancing angel .
they are also able to play --
they are really playing .
these are young sunflowers , and what they are doing cannot be described with any other terms than playing .
they are training themselves , as many young animals do , to the adult life where they will be called to track the sun all the day .
they are able to respond to gravity , of course , so the shoots are growing against the vector of gravity and the roots toward the vector of gravity .
but they are also able to sleep .
this is one , mimosa pudica .
so during the night , they curl the leaves and reduce the movement , and during the day , you have the opening of the leaves -- there is much more movement .
this is interesting because this sleeping machinery , it 's perfectly conserved .
it 's the same in plants , in insects and in animals .
and so if you need to study this sleeping problem , it 's easy to study on plants , for example , than in animals and it 's much more easy even ethically .
it 's a kind of vegetarian experimentation .
plants are even able to communicate --
they are extraordinary communicators .
they communicate with other plants .
they are able to distinguish kin and non-kin .
they communicate with plants of other species and they communicate with animals by producing chemical volatiles , for example , during the pollination .
now with the pollination , it 's a very serious issue for plants , because they move the pollen from one flower to the other , yet they cannot move from one flower to the other .
so they need a vector -- and this vector , it 's normally an animal .
many insects have been used by plants as vectors for the transport of the pollination , but not just insects ; even birds , reptiles , and mammals like bats rats are normally used for the transportation of the pollen .
this is a serious business .
we have the plants that are giving to the animals a kind of sweet substance -- very energizing -- having in change this transportation of the pollen .
but some plants are manipulating animals , like in the case of orchids that promise sex and nectar and give in change nothing for the transportation of the pollen .
now , there is a big problem behind all this behavior that we have seen .
how is it possible to do this without a brain ?
we need to wait until 1880 , when this big man , charles darwin , publishes a wonderful , astonishing book that starts a revolution .
the title is " the power of movement in plants . "
no one was allowed to speak about movement in plants before charles darwin .
in his book , assisted by his son , francis -- who was the first professor of plant physiology in the world , in cambridge -- they took into consideration every single movement for 500 pages .
and in the last paragraph of the book , it 's a kind of stylistic mark , because normally charles darwin stored , in the last paragraph of a book , the most important message .
he wrote that , " it 's hardly an exaggeration to say that the tip of the radical acts like the brain of one of the lower animals . "
this is not a metaphor .
he wrote some very interesting letters to one of his friends who was j.d. hooker , or at that time , president of the royal society , so the maximum scientific authority in britain speaking about the brain in the plants .
now , this is a root apex growing against a slope .
so you can recognize this kind of movement , the same movement that worms , snakes and every animal that are moving on the ground without legs is able to display .
and it 's not an easy movement because , to have this kind of movement , you need to move different regions of the root and to synchronize these different regions without having a brain .
so we studied the root apex and we found that there is a specific region that is here , depicted in blue -- that is called the " transition zone . "
and this region , it 's a very small region --
it 's less than one millimeter .
and in this small region you have the highest consumption of oxygen in the plants and more important , you have these kinds of signals here .
the signals that you are seeing here are action potential , are the same signals that the neurons of my brain , of our brain , use to exchange information .
now we know that a root apex has just a few hundred cells that show this kind of feature , but we know how big the root apparatus of a small plant , like a plant of rye .
we have almost 14 million roots .
we have 11 and a half million root apex and a total length of 600 or more kilometers and a very high surface area .
now let 's imagine that each single root apex is working in network with all the others .
here were have on the left , the internet and on the right , the root apparatus .
they work in the same way .
they are a network of small computing machines , working in networks .
and why are they so similar ?
because they evolved for the same reason : to survive predation .
they work in the same way .
so you can remove 90 percent of the root apparatus and the plants [ continue ] to work .
you can remove 90 percent of the internet and it is [ continuing ] to work .
so , a suggestion for the people working with networks : plants are able to give you good suggestions about how to evolve networks .
and another possibility is a technological possibility .
let 's imagine that we can build robots and robots that are inspired by plants .
until now , the man was inspired just by man or the animals in producing a robot .
we have the animaloid -- and the normal robots inspired by animals , insectoid , so on .
we have the androids that are inspired by man .
but why have we not any plantoid ?
well , if you want to fly , it 's good that you look at birds -- to be inspired by birds .
but if you want to explore soils , or if you want to colonize new territory , to best thing that you can do is to be inspired by plants that are masters in doing this .
we have another possibility we are working [ on ] in our lab , [ which ] is to build hybrids .
it 's much more easy to build hybrids .
hybrid means it 's something that 's half living and half machine .
it 's much more easy to work with plants than with animals .
they have computing power ,
they have electrical signals .
the connection with the machine is much more easy , much more even ethically possible .
and these are three possibilities that we are working on to build hybrids , driven by algae or by the leaves at the end , by the most , most powerful parts of the plants , by the roots .
well , thank you for your attention .
and before i finish , i would like to reassure that no snails were harmed in making this presentation .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / charlie _ todd _ the _ shared _ experience _ of _ absurdity.html
charlie todd causes bizarre , hilarious , and unexpected public scenes : seventy synchronized dancers in storefront windows , " ghostbusters " running through the new york public library , and the annual no-pants subway ride . at tedxbloomington he shows how his group , improv everywhere , uses these scenes to bring people together .
comedy , community , culture , entertainment
1269
charlie todd : the shared experience of absurdity
i started improv everywhere about 10 years ago when i moved to new york city with an interest in acting and comedy .
because i was new to the city , i didn 't have access to a stage , so i decided to create my own in public places .
so the first project we 're going to take a look at is the very first no pants subway ride . now this took place in january of 2002 .
and this woman is the star of the video .
she doesn 't know she 's being filmed .
she 's being filmed with a hidden camera .
this is on the 6 train in new york city .
and this is the first stop along the line .
these are two danish guys who come out and sit down next to the hidden camera .
and that 's me right there in a brown coat .
it 's about 30 degrees outside .
i 'm wearing a hat . i 'm wearing a scarf .
and the girl 's going to notice me right here .
and as you 'll see now , i 'm not wearing pants .
so at this point -- at this point she 's noticed me , but in new york there 's weirdos on any given train car .
one person 's not that unusual .
she goes back to reading her book , which is unfortunately titled " rape . "
so she 's noticed the unusual thing , but she 's gone back to her normal life .
now in the meantime , i have six friends who are waiting at the next six consecutive stops in their underwear as well .
they 're going to be entering this car one by one .
we 'll act as though we don 't know each other .
and we 'll act as if it 's just an unfortunate mistake we 've made , forgetting our pants on this cold january day .
so at this point , she decides to put the rape book away .
and she decides to be a little bit more aware of her surroundings .
now in the meantime , the two danish guys to the left of the camera , they 're cracking up .
they think this is the funniest thing they 've ever seen before .
and watch her make eye contact with them right about now .
and i love that moment in this video , because before it became a shared experience , it was something that was maybe a little bit scary , or something that was at least confusing to her .
and then once it became a shared experience , it was funny and something that she could laugh at .
so the train is now pulling into the third stop along the 6 line .
so the video won 't show everything .
this goes on for another four stops .
a total of seven guys enter anonymously in their underwear .
at the eighth stop , a girl came in with a giant duffel bag and announced she had pants for sale for a dollar -- like you might sell batteries or candy on the train .
we all very matter of factly bought a pair of pants , put them on and said , " thank you . that 's exactly what i needed today , " and then exited without revealing what had happened and went in all different directions .
thank you .
so that 's a still from the video there .
and i love that girl 's reaction so much .
and watching that videotape later that day inspired me to keep doing what i do .
and really one of the points of improv everywhere is to cause a scene in a public place that is a positive experience for other people .
it 's a prank , but it 's a prank that gives somebody a great story to tell .
and her reaction inspired me to do a second annual no pants subway ride .
and we 've continued to do it every year .
this january , we did the 10th annual no pants subway ride where a diverse group of 3,500 people rode the train in their underwear in new york -- almost every single train line in the city .
and also in 50 other cities around the world , people participated .
as i started taking improv class at the upright citizens brigade theater and meeting other creative people and other performers and comedians , i started amassing a mailing list of people who wanted to do these types of projects .
so i could do more large-scale projects .
well one day i was walking through union square , and i saw this building , which had just been built in 2005 .
and there was a girl in one of the windows and she was dancing .
and it was very peculiar , because it was dark out , but she was back-lit with florescent lighting , and she was very much onstage , and i couldn 't figure out why she was doing it .
after about 15 seconds , her friend appeared -- she had been hiding behind a display -- and they laughed and hugged each other and ran away .
so it seemed like maybe she had been dared to do this .
so i got inspired by that .
looking at the entire facade -- there were 70 total windows -- and i knew what i had to do .
so this project is called look up more . we had 70 actors dress in black .
this was completely unauthorized .
we didn 't let the stores know we were coming .
and i stood in the park giving signals .
the first signal was for everybody to hold up these four-foot tall letters that spelled out " look up more , " the name of the project .
the second signal was for everybody to do jumping jacks together .
you 'll see that start right here .
and then we had dancing . we had everyone dance .
and then we had dance solos where only one person would dance and everybody would point to them .
so then i gave a new hand signal , which signaled the next soloist down below in forever 21 , and he danced .
there were several other activities .
we had people jumping up and down , people dropping to the ground .
and i was standing just anonymously in a sweatshirt , putting my hand on and off of a trashcan to signal the advancement .
and because it was in union square park , right by a subway station , there were hundreds of people by the end who stopped and looked up and watched what we were doing .
there 's a better photo of it .
so that particular event was inspired by a moment that i happened to stumble upon .
the next project i want to show was given to me in an email from a stranger .
a high school kid in texas wrote me in 2006 and said , " you should get as many people as possible to put on blue polo shirts and khaki pants and go into a best buy and stand around . "
so i wrote this high school kid back immediately , and i said , " yes , you are correct .
i think i 'll try to do that this weekend . thank you . "
so here 's the video .
so again , this is 2005 .
this is the best buy in new york city .
we had about 80 people show up to participate , entering one-by-one .
there was an eight year-old girl , a 10 year-old girl .
there was also a 65 year-old man who participated .
so a very diverse group of people .
and i told people , " don 't work . don 't actually do work .
but also , don 't shop .
just stand around and don 't face products . "
now you can see the regular employees by the ones that have the yellow tags on their shirt .
everybody else is one of our actors .
the lower level employees thought it was very funny .
and in fact , several of them went to go get their camera from the break room and took photos with us .
a lot of them made jokes about trying to get us to go to the back to get heavy television sets for customers .
the managers and the security guards , on the other hand , did not find it particularly funny .
you can see them in this footage .
they 're wearing either a yellow shirt or a black shirt .
and we were there probably 10 minutes before the managers decided to dial 911 .
so they started running around telling everybody the cops were coming , watch out , the cops were coming .
and you can see the cops in this footage right here .
that 's a cop wearing black right there , being filmed with a hidden camera .
ultimately , the police had to inform best buy management that it was not , in fact , illegal to wear a blue polo shirt and khaki pants .
thank you .
so we had been there for 20 minutes ; we were happy to exit the store .
one thing the managers were trying to do was to track down our cameras .
and they caught a couple of my guys who had hidden cameras in duffel bags .
but the one camera guy they never caught was the guy that went in just with a blank tape and went over to the best buy camera department and just put his tape in one of their cameras and pretended to shop .
so i like that concept of using their own technology against them .
i think our best projects are ones that are site specific and happen at a particular place for a reason .
and one morning , i was riding the subway . i had to make a transfer at the 53rd st. stop where there are these two giant escalators .
and it 's a very depressing place to be in the morning , it 's very crowded .
so i decided to try and stage something that could make it as happy as possible for one morning .
so this was in the winter of 2009 -- 8 : 30 in the morning .
it 's morning rush hour .
it 's very cold outside .
people are coming in from queens , transferring from the e train to the 6 train .
and they 're going up these giant escalators on their way to their jobs .
thank you . so there 's a photograph that illustrates it a little bit better .
he gave 2,000 high fives that day , and he washed his hands before and afterward and did not get sick .
and that was done also without permission , although no one seemed to care .
so i 'd say over the years , one of the most common criticisms i see of improv everywhere left anonymously on youtube comments is : " these people have too much time on their hands . "
and you know , not everybody 's going to like everything you do , and i 've certainly developed a thick skin thanks to internet comments , but that one 's always bothered me , because we don 't have too much time on our hands .
the participants at improv everywhere events have just as much leisure time as any other new yorkers , they just occasionally choose to spend it in an unusual way .
you know , every saturday and sunday , hundreds of thousands of people each fall gather in football stadiums to watch games .
and i 've never seen anybody comment , looking at a football game , saying , " all those people in the stands , they have too much time on their hands . " and of course they don 't .
it 's a perfectly wonderful way to spent a weekend afternoon , watching a football game in a stadium .
but i think it 's also a perfectly valid way to spend an afternoon freezing in place with 200 people in the grand central terminal or dressing up like a ghostbuster and running through the new york public library .
or listening to the same mp3 as 3,000 other people and dancing silently in a park , or bursting into song in a grocery store as part of a spontaneous musical , or diving into the ocean in coney island wearing formal attire .
you know , as kids , we 're taught to play .
and we 're never given a reason why we should play .
it 's just acceptable that play is a good thing .
and i think that 's sort of the point of improv everywhere .
it 's that there is no point and that there doesn 't have to be a point .
we don 't need a reason .
as long as it 's fun and it seems like it 's going to be a funny idea and it seems like the people who witness it will also have a fun time , then that 's enough for us .
and i think , as adults , we need to learn that there 's no right or wrong way to play .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / sonaar _ luthra _ meet _ the _ water _ canary.html
after a crisis , how can we tell if water is safe to drink ? current tests are slow and complex , and the delay can be deadly , as in the cholera outbreak after haiti 's earthquake in 2010 . ted fellow sonaar luthra previews his design for a simple tool that quickly tests water for safety -- the water canary .
design , development , technology , water
1326
sonaar luthra : meet the water canary
cholera was reported in haiti for the first time in over 50 years last october .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / stephen _ palumbi _ following _ the _ mercury _ trail.html
there 's a tight and surprising link between the ocean 's health and ours , says marine biologist stephen palumbi . he shows how toxins at the bottom of the ocean food chain find their way into our bodies , with a shocking story of toxic contamination from a japanese fish market . his work points a way forward for saving the oceans ' health -- and humanity 's .
fish , health , mission blue , oceans , science
899
stephen palumbi : following the mercury trail
it can be a very complicated thing , the ocean .
and it can be a very complicated thing , what human health is .
and bringing those two together might seem a very daunting task ,
but what i 'm going to try to say is that even in that complexity , there 's some simple themes that i think , if we understand , we can really move forward .
and those simple themes aren 't really themes about the complex science of what 's going on , but things that we all pretty well know .
and i 'm going to start with this one : if momma ain 't happy , ain 't nobody happy .
we know that , right ? we 've experienced that .
and if we just take that and we build from there , then we can go to the next step , which is that if the ocean ain 't happy , ain 't nobody happy .
that 's the theme of my talk .
and we 're making the ocean pretty unhappy in a lot of different ways .
this is a shot of cannery row in 1932 .
cannery row , at the time , had the biggest industrial canning operation on the west coast .
we piled enormous amounts of pollution into the air and into the water .
rolf bolin , who was a professor at the hopkin 's marine station where i work , wrote in the 1940s that " the fumes from the scum floating on the inlets of the bay were so bad they turned lead-based paints black . "
people working in these canneries could barely stay there all day because of the smell ,
but you know what they came out saying ?
they say , " you know what you smell ?
you smell money . "
that pollution was money to that community ,
and those people dealt with the pollution and absorbed it into their skin and into their bodies because they needed the money .
we made the ocean unhappy ; we made people very unhappy , and we made them unhealthy .
the connection between ocean health and human health is actually based upon another couple simple adages ,
and i want to call that " pinch a minnow , hurt a whale . "
the pyramid of ocean life ...
now , when an ecologist looks at the ocean -- i have to tell you -- we look at the ocean in a very different way , and we see different things than when a regular person looks at the ocean because when an ecologist looks at the ocean , we see all those interconnections .
we see the base of the food chain , the plankton , the small things , and we see how those animals are food to animals in the middle of the pyramid , and on so up this diagram .
and that flow , that flow of life , from the very base up to the very top , is the flow that ecologists see .
and that 's what we 're trying to preserve
when we say , " save the ocean . heal the ocean . "
it 's that pyramid .
now why does that matter for human health ?
because when we jam things in the bottom of that pyramid that shouldn 't be there , some very frightening things happen .
pollutants , some pollutants have been created by us : molecules like pcbs that can 't be broken down by our bodies .
and they go in the base of that pyramid , and they drift up ; they 're passed up that way , on to predators and on to the top predators ,
and in so doing , they accumulate .
now , to bring that home , i thought i 'd invent a little game .
we don 't really have to play it ; we can just think about it here .
it 's the styrofoam and chocolate game .
imagine that when we got on this boat , we were all given two styrofoam peanuts .
can 't do much with them : put them in your pocket .
suppose the rules are : every time you offer somebody a drink , you give them the drink , and you give them your styrofoam peanuts too .
what 'll happen is that the styrofoam peanuts will start moving through our society here , and they will accumulate in the drunkest , stingiest people .
there 's no mechanism in this game for them to go anywhere but into a bigger and bigger pile of indigestible styrofoam peanuts .
and that 's exactly what happens with pdbs in this food pyramid :
they accumulate into the top of it .
now suppose , instead of styrofoam peanuts , we take these lovely little chocolates that we get and we had those instead .
well , some of us would be eating those chocolates instead of passing them around ,
and instead of accumulating , they will just pass into our group here and not accumulate in any one group
because they 're absorbed by us .
and that 's the difference between a pcb and , say , something natural like an omega-3 , something we want out of the marine food chain .
pcbs accumulate .
we have great examples of that , unfortunately .
pcbs accumulate in dolphins in sarasota bay , in texas , in north carolina .
they get into the food chain .
the dolphins eat the fish that have pcbs from the plankton , and those pcbs , being fat-soluble , accumulate in these dolphins .
now , a dolphin , mother dolphin , any dolphin -- there 's only one way that a pcb can get out of a dolphin .
and what 's that ?
in mother 's milk .
here 's a diagram of the pcb load of dolphins in sarasota bay .
adult males : a huge load .
juveniles : a huge load .
females after their first calf is already weaned : a lower load .
those females , they 're not trying to .
those females are passing the pcbs in the fat of their own mother 's milk into their offspring ,
and their offspring don 't survive .
the death rate in these dolphins , for the first calf born of every female dolphin , is 60 to 80 percent .
these mothers pump their first offspring full of this pollutant ,
and most of them die .
now , the mother then can go and reproduce , but what a terrible price to pay for the accumulation of this pollutant in these animals -- the death of the first-born calf .
there 's another top predator in the ocean , it turns out .
that top predator , of course , is us .
and we also are eating meat that comes from some of these same places .
this is whale meat that i photographed in a grocery store in tokyo -- or is it ?
in fact , what we did a few years ago was learn how to smuggle a molecular biology lab into tokyo and use it to genetically test the dna out of whale meat samples and identify what they really were .
and some of those whale meat samples were whale meat .
some of them were illegal whale meat , by the way .
that 's another story .
but some of them were not whale meat at all .
even though they were labeled whale meat , they were dolphin meat .
some of them were dolphin liver . some of them were dolphin blubber .
and those dolphin parts had a huge load of pcbs , dioxins and heavy metals .
and that huge load was passing into the people that ate this meat .
it turns out that a lot of dolphins are being sold as meat in the whale meat market around the world .
that 's a tragedy for those populations ,
but it 's also a tragedy for the people eating them because they don 't know that that 's toxic meat .
we had these data a few years ago .
i remember sitting at my desk being about the only person in the world who knew that whale meat being sold in these markets was really dolphin meat , and it was toxic .
it had two-to-three-to-400 times the toxic loads ever allowed by the epa .
and i remember there sitting at my desk thinking , " well , i know this . this is a great scientific discovery , "
but it was so awful .
and for the very first time in my scientific career , i broke scientific protocol , which is that you take the data and publish them in scientific journals and then begin to talk about them .
we sent a very polite letter to the minister of health in japan and simply pointed out that this is an intolerable situation , not for us , but for the people of japan
because mothers who may be breastfeeding , who may have young children , would be buying something that they thought was healthy , but it was really toxic .
that led to a whole series of other campaigns in japan ,
and i 'm really proud to say that at this point , it 's very difficult to buy anything in japan that 's labeled incorrectly , even though they 're still selling whale meat , which i believe they shouldn 't .
but at least it 's labeled correctly ,
and you 're no longer going to be buying toxic dolphin meat instead .
it isn 't just there that this happens , but in a natural diet of some communities in the canadian arctic and in the united states and in the european arctic , a natural diet of seals and whales leads to an accumulation of pcbs that have gathered up from all parts of the world and ended up in these women .
these women have toxic breast milk .
they cannot feed their offspring , their children , their breast milk because of the accumulation of these toxins in their food chain , in their part of the world 's ocean pyramid .
that means their immune systems are compromised .
it means that their children 's development can be compromised .
and the world 's attention on this over the last decade has reduced the problem for these women , not by changing the pyramid , but by changing what they particularly eat out of it .
we 've taken them out of their natural pyramid in order to solve this problem .
that 's a good thing for this particular acute problem , but it does nothing to solve the pyramid problem .
there 's other ways of breaking the pyramid .
the pyramid , if we jam things in the bottom , can get backed up like a sewer line that 's clogged .
and if we jam nutrients , sewage , fertilizer in the base of that food pyramid , it can back up all through it .
we end up with things we 've heard about before : red tides , for example , which are blooms of toxic algae floating through the oceans causing neurological damage .
we can also see blooms of bacteria , blooms of viruses in the ocean .
these are two shots of a red tide coming on shore here and a bacteria in the genus vibrio , which includes the genus that has cholera in it .
how many people have seen a " beach closed " sign ?
why does that happen ?
it happens because we have jammed so much into the base of the natural ocean pyramid that these bacteria clog it up and overfill onto our beaches .
often what jams us up is sewage .
now how many of you have ever gone to a state park or a national park where you had a big sign at the front saying , " closed because human sewage is so far over this park that you can 't use it " ?
not very often . we wouldn 't tolerate that .
we wouldn 't tolerate our parks being swamped by human sewage ,
but beaches are closed a lot in our country . they 're closed more and more and more all around the world for the same reason ,
and i believe we shouldn 't tolerate that either .
it 's not just a question of cleanliness ;
it 's also a question of how those organisms then turn into human disease .
these vibrios , these bacteria , can actually infect people .
they can go into your skin and create skin infections .
this is a graph from noaa 's ocean and human health initiative , showing the rise of the infections by vibrio in people over the last few years .
surfers , for example , know this incredibly .
and if you can see on some surfing sites , in fact , not only do you see what the waves are like or what the weather 's like , but on some surf rider sites , you see a little flashing poo alert .
that means that the beach might have great waves , but it 's a dangerous place for surfers to be because they can carry with them , even after a great day of surfing , this legacy of an infection that might take a very long time to solve .
some of these infections are actually carrying antibiotic resistance genes now ,
and that makes them even more difficult .
these same infections create harmful algal blooms .
those blooms are generating other kinds of chemicals .
this is just a simple list of some of the types of poisons that come out of these harmful algal blooms : shellfish poisoning , fish ciguatera , diarrheic shellfish poisoning -- you don 't want to know about that -- neurotoxic shellfish poisoning , paralytic shellfish poisoning .
these are things that are getting into our food chain because of these blooms .
rita calwell very famously traced a very interesting story of cholera into human communities , brought there , not by a normal human vector , but by a marine vector , this copepod .
copepods are small crustaceans .
they 're a tiny fraction of an inch long ,
and they can carry on their little legs some of the cholera bacteria that then leads to human disease .
that has sparked cholera epidemics in ports along the world and has led to increased concentration on trying to make sure shipping doesn 't move these vectors of cholera around the world .
so what do you do ?
we have major problems in disrupted ecosystem flow that the pyramid may not be working so well , that the flow from the base up into it is being blocked and clogged .
what do you do when you have this sort of disrupted flow ?
well , there 's a bunch of things you could do .
you could call joe the plumber , for example .
and he could come in and fix the flow .
but in fact , if you look around the world , not only are there hope spots for where we may be able to fix problems , there have been places where problems have been fixed , where people have come to grips with these issues and begun to turn them around .
monterey is one of those .
i started out showing how much we had distressed the monterey bay ecosystem with pollution and the canning industry and all of the attendant problems .
in 1932 , that 's the picture .
in 2009 , the picture is dramatically different .
the canneries are gone . the pollution has abated .
but there 's a greater sense here that what the individual communities need is working ecosystems .
they need a functioning pyramid from the base all the way to the top .
and that pyramid in monterey , right now , because of the efforts of a lot of different people , is functioning better than it 's ever functioned for the last 150 years .
it didn 't happen accidentally .
it happened because many people put their time and effort and their pioneering spirit into this .
on the left there , julia platt , the mayor of my little hometown in pacific grove .
at 74 years old , became mayor because something had to be done to protect the ocean .
in 1931 , she produced california 's first community-based marine protected area , right next to the biggest polluting cannery , because julia knew that when the canneries eventually were gone , the ocean needed a place to grow from , that the ocean needed a place to spark a seed ,
and she wanted to provide that seed .
other people , like david packard and julie packard , who were instrumental in producing the monterey bay aquarium to lock into people 's notion that the ocean and the health of the ocean ecosystem were just as important to the economy of this area as eating the ecosystem would be .
that change in thinking has led to a dramatic shift , not only in the fortunes of monterey bay , but other places around the world .
well , i want to leave you with the thought that what we 're really trying to do here is protect this ocean pyramid ,
and that ocean pyramid connects to our own pyramid of life .
it 's an ocean planet , and we think of ourselves as a terrestrial species ,
but the pyramid of life in the ocean and our own lives on land are intricately connected .
and it 's only through having the ocean being healthy that we can remain healthy ourselves .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jessa _ gamble _ how _ to _ sleep.html
in today 's world , balancing school , work , kids and more , most of us can only hope for the recommended eight hours of sleep . examining the science behind our body 's internal clock , jessa gamble reveals the surprising and substantial program of rest we should be observing .
evolution , humanity , personal growth , science , self
957
jessa gamble : our natural sleep cycle
let 's start with day and night .
life evolved under conditions of light and darkness , light and then darkness .
and so plants and animals developed their own internal clocks so that they would be ready for these changes in light .
these are chemical clocks , and they 're found in every known being that has two or more cells and in some that only have one cell .
i 'll give you an example --
if you take a horseshoe crab off the beach , and you fly it all the way across the continent , and you drop it into a sloped cage , it will scramble up the floor of the cage as the tide is rising on its home shores , and it 'll skitter down again right as the water is receding thousands of miles away .
it 'll do this for weeks , until it kind of gradually loses the plot .
and it 's incredible to watch , but there 's nothing psychic or paranormal going on ; it 's simply that these crabs have internal cycles that correspond , usually , with what 's going on around it .
so , we have this ability as well .
and in humans , we call it the " body clock . "
you can see this most clearly when you take away someone 's watch and you shut them into a bunker , deep underground , for a couple of months .
people actually volunteer for this , and they usually come out kind of raving about their productive time in the hole .
so , no matter how atypical these subjects would have to be , they all show the same thing .
they get up just a little bit later every day -- say 15 minutes or so -- and they kind of drift all the way around the clock like this over the course of the weeks .
and so , in this way we know that they are working on their own internal clocks , rather than somehow sensing the day outside .
so fine , we have a body clock , and it turns out that it 's incredibly important in our lives .
it 's a huge driver for culture and i think that it 's the most underrated force on our behavior .
we evolved as a species near the equator , and so we 're very well-equipped to deal with 12 hours of daylight and 12 hours of darkness .
but of course , we 've spread to every corner of the globe and in arctic canada , where i live , we have perpetual daylight in summer and 24 hours of darkness in winter .
so the culture , the northern aboriginal culture , traditionally has been highly seasonal .
in winter , there 's a lot of sleeping going on ;
you enjoy your family life inside .
and in summer , it 's almost manic hunting and working activity very long hours , very active .
so , what would our natural rhythm look like ?
what would our sleeping patterns be in the sort of ideal sense ?
well , it turns out that when people are living without any sort of artificial light at all , they sleep twice every night .
they go to bed around 8 : 00 p.m .
until midnight and then again , they sleep from about 2 : 00 a.m. until sunrise .
and in-between , they have a couple of hours of sort of meditative quiet in bed .
and during this time , there 's a surge of prolactin , the likes of which a modern day never sees .
the people in these studies report feeling so awake during the daytime , that they realize they 're experiencing true wakefulness for the first time in their lives .
so , cut to the modern day .
we 're living in a culture of jet lag , global travel , 24-hour business , shift work .
and you know , our modern ways of doing things have their advantages , but i believe we should understand the costs .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / handpring _ puppet _ co _ the _ genius _ puppetry _ behind _ war _ horse.html
" puppets always have to try to be alive , " says adrian kohler of the handspring puppet company , a gloriously ambitious troupe of human and wooden actors . beginning with the tale of a hyena 's subtle paw , puppeteers kohler and basil jones build to the story of their latest astonishment : the wonderfully life-like joey , the war horse , who trots convincingly onto the ted stage .
animals , arts , design , entertainment , theater
1108
handspring puppet co . : the genius puppetry behind war horse
adrian kohler : well , we 're here today to talk about the evolution of a puppet horse .
basil jones : but actually we 're going to start this evolution with a hyena .
ak : the ancestor of the horse .
okay , we 'll do something with it .
hahahaha .
the hyena is the ancestor of the horse because it was part of a production called " faustus in africa , " a handspring production from 1995 , where it had to play draughts with helen of troy .
this production was directed by south african artist and theater director , william kentridge .
so it needed a very articulate front paw .
but , like all puppets , it has other attributes .
bj : one of them is breath , and it kind of breathes .
ak : haa haa haaa .
bj : breath is really important for us .
it 's the kind of original movement for any puppet for us onstage .
it 's the thing that distinguishes the puppet -- ak : oops .
bj : from an actor .
puppets always have to try to be alive .
it 's their kind of ur-story onstage , that desperation to live .
ak : yeah , it 's basically a dead object , as you can see , and it only lives because you make it .
an actor struggles to die onstage , but a puppet has to struggle to live .
and in a way that 's a metaphor for life .
bj : so every moment it 's on the stage , it 's making the struggle .
so we call this a piece of emotional engineering that uses up-to-the-minute 17th century technology -- to turn nouns into verbs .
ak : well actually i prefer to say that it 's an object constructed out of wood and cloth with movement built into it to persuade you to believe that it has life .
bj : okay so .
ak : it has ears that move passively when the head goes .
bj : and it has these bulkheads made out of plywood , covered with fabric -- curiously similar , in fact , to the plywood canoes that adrian 's father used to make when he was a boy in their workshop . ak : in port elizabeth , the village outside port elizabeth in south africa .
bj : his mother was a puppeteer .
and when we met at art school and fell in love in 1971 , i hated puppets .
i really thought they were so beneath me .
i wanted to become an avant-garde artist -- and punch and judy was certainly not where i wanted to go . and , in fact , it took about 10 years
to discover the bambara bamana puppets of mali in west africa , where there 's a fabulous tradition of puppetry , to learn a renewed , or a new , respect for this art form .
ak : so in 1981 , i persuaded basil and some friends of mine to form a puppet company .
and 20 years later , miraculously , we collaborated with a company from mali , the sogolon marionette troupe of bamako , where we made a piece about a tall giraffe .
it was just called " tall horse , " which was a life-sized giraffe .
bj : and here again , you see the same structure .
the bulkheads have now turned into hoops of cane , but it 's ultimately the same structure .
it 's got two people inside it on stilts , which give them the height , and somebody in the front who 's using a kind of steering wheel to move that head .
ak : the person in the hind legs is also controlling the tail , a bit like the hyena -- same mechanism , just a bit bigger .
and he 's controlling the ear movement .
bj : so this production was seen by tom morris of the national theatre in london .
and just around that time , his mother had said , " have you seen this book by michael morpurgo called ' war horse ' ? "
ak : it 's about a boy who falls in love with a horse .
the horse is sold to the first world war , and he joins up to find his horse .
bj : so tom gave us a call and said , " do you think you could make us a horse for a show to happen at the national theatre ? "
ak : it seemed a lovely idea .
bj : but it had to ride . it had to have a rider .
ak : it had to have a rider , and it had to participate in cavalry charges .
a play about early 20th century plowing technology and cavalry charges was a little bit of a challenge for the accounting department at the national theatre in london .
but they agreed to go along with it for a while .
so we began with a test .
bj : this is adrian and thys stander , who went on to actually design the cane system for the horse , and our next-door neighbor katherine , riding on a ladder .
the weight is really difficult when it 's up above your head .
ak : and once we put katherine through that particular brand of hell , we knew that we might be able to make a horse , which could be ridden .
so we made a model .
this is a cardboard model , a little bit smaller than the hyena .
you 'll notice that the legs are plywood legs and the canoe structure is still there .
bj : and the two manipulators are inside .
but we didn 't realize at the time that we actually needed a third manipulator , because we couldn 't manipulate the neck from inside and walk the horse at the same time .
ak : we started work on the prototype after the model was approved , and the prototype took a bit longer than we anticipated .
we had to throw out the plywood legs and make new cane ones .
and we had a crate built for it .
it had to be shipped to london .
we were going to test-drive it on the street outside of our house in cape town , and it got to midnight and we hadn 't done that yet .
bj : so we got a camera , and we posed the puppet in various galloping stances .
and we sent it off to the national theatre , hoping that they believed that we created something that worked .
ak : a month later , we were there in london with this big box and a studio full of people about to work with us .
bj : about 40 people .
ak : we were terrified .
we opened the lid , we took the horse out , and it did work ; it walked and it was able to be ridden .
here i have an 18-second clip of the very first walk of the prototype .
this is in the national theatre studio , the place where they cook new ideas .
it had by no means got the green light yet .
the choreographer , toby sedgwick , invented a beautiful sequence where the baby horse , which was made out of sticks and bits of twigs , grew up into the big horse .
and nick starr , the director of the national theatre , saw that particular moment , he was standing next to me -- he nearly wet himself .
and so the show was given the green light .
and we went back to cape town and redesigned the horse completely .
here is the plan .
and here is our factory in cape town where we make horses .
you can see quite a lot of skeletons in the background there .
the horses are completely handmade .
there is very little 20th century technology in them .
we used a bit of laser cutting on the plywood and some of the aluminum pieces .
but because they have to be light and flexible , and each one of them is different , they can 't be mass-produced , unfortunately .
so here are some half-finished horses ready to be worked in london .
and now we would like to introduce you to joey .
joey boy , you there ?
joey .
joey .
joey , come here .
no , no , i haven 't got it .
he 's got it ; it 's in his pocket .
bj : joey .
ak : joey , joey , joey , joey .
come here . stand here where people can see you .
move around . come on .
i 'd just like to describe -- i won 't talk too loud . he might get irritated .
here , craig is working the head .
he has bicycle brake cables going down to the head control in his hand .
each one of them operates either an ear , separately , or the head , up and down .
but he also controls the head directly by using his hand .
the ears are obviously a very important emotional indicator of the horse .
when they point right back , the horse is fearful or angry , depending upon what 's going on in front of him , around him .
or , when he 's more relaxed , the head comes down and the ears listen , either side .
horses ' hearing is very important .
it 's almost more important than their eyesight .
over here , tommy 's got what you call the heart position .
he 's working the leg .
you see the string tendon from the hyena , the hyena 's front leg , automatically pulls the hoop up .
horses are so unpredictable .
the way a hoof comes up with a horse immediately gives you the feeling that it 's a convincing horse action .
the hind legs have got the same action .
bj : and mikey also has , in his fingers , the ability to move the tail from left to right , and up and down with the other hand .
and together , there 's quite a complex possibility of tail expression .
ak : you want to say something about the breathing ?
bj : we had a big challenge with breathing .
adrian thought that he was going to have to split the chest of the puppet in two and make it breathe like that -- because that 's how a horse would breathe , with an expanded chest .
but we realized that , if that were to be happening , you wouldn 't , as an audience , see the breath .
so he made a channel in here , and the chest moves up and down in that channel .
so it 's anti-naturalistic really , the up and down movement , but it feels like breath .
and it 's very , very simple because all that happens is that the puppeteer breathes with his knees .
ak : other emotional stuff .
if i were to touch the horse here on his skin , the heart puppeteer can shake the body from inside and get the skin to quiver .
you 'll notice , of course , that the puppet is made out of cane lines .
and i would like you to believe that it was an aesthetic choice , that i was making a three-dimensional drawing of a horse that somehow moves in space .
but of course , it was the cane is light , the cane is flexible , the cane is durable and the cane is moldable .
and so it was a very practical reason why it was made of cane .
the skin itself is made out of a see-through nylon mesh , which , if the lighting designer wants the horse to almost disappear , she can light the background and the horse becomes ghostlike .
you see the skeletal structure of it .
or if you light it from above , it becomes more solid .
again , that was a practical consideration .
the guys inside the horse have to be able to see out .
they have to be able to act along with their fellow actors in the production . and it 's very much an in-the-moment activity that they 're engaged in .
it 's three heads making one character .
but now we would like you to put joey through some paces .
and plant .
thank you .
and now just -- all the way from sunny california we have zem joaquin who 's going to ride the horse for us . so we would like to stress that the performance you see in the horse is three guys who have studied horse behavior incredibly thoroughly .
bj : not being able to talk to one another while they 're onstage because they 're mic 'd .
the sound that that very large chest makes , of the horse -- the whinnying and the nickering and everything -- that starts usually with one performer , carries on with a second person and ends with a third .
ak : mikey brett from leicestershire .
mikey brett , craig , leo , zem joaquin and basil and me .
thank you . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / katherine _ fulton _ you _ are _ the _ future _ of _ philanthropy.html
in this uplifting talk , katherine fulton sketches the new future of philanthropy -- one where collaboration and innovation allow regular people to do big things , even when money is scarce . giving five practical examples of crowd-driven philanthropy , she calls for a new generation of citizen leaders .
activism , bottom-up , community , global issues , philanthropy , potential
585
katherine fulton : you are the future of philanthropy
i want to help you re-perceive what philanthropy is , what it could be , and what your relationship to it is .
and in doing that , i want to offer you a vision , an imagined future , if you will , of how , as the poet seamus heaney has put it , " once in a lifetime the longed-for tidal wave of justice can rise up , and hope and history rhyme . "
i want to start with these word pairs here .
we all know which side of these we 'd like to be on .
when philanthropy was reinvented a century ago , when the foundation form was actually invented , they didn 't think of themselves on the wrong side of these either .
in fact they would never have thought of themselves as closed and set in their ways , as slow to respond to new challenges , as small and risk-averse .
and in fact they weren 't . they were reinventing charity in those times ,
what rockefeller called " the business of benevolence . "
but by the end of the 20th century , a new generation of critics and reformers had come to see philanthropy just this way .
the thing to watch for as a global philanthropy industry comes about -- and that 's exactly what is happening -- is how the aspiration is to flip these old assumptions ,
for philanthropy to become open and big and fast and connected , in service of the long term .
this entrepreneurial energy is emerging from many quarters .
and it 's driven and propelled forward by new leaders , like many of the people here , by new tools , like the ones we 've seen here , and by new pressures .
i 've been following this change for quite a while now , and participating in it .
this report is our main public report .
what it tells is the story of how today actually could be as historic as 100 years ago .
what i want to do is share some of the coolest things that are going on with you .
and as i do that , i 'm not going to dwell much on the very large philanthropy that everybody already knows about -- the gates or the soros or the google .
instead , what i want to do is talk about the philanthropy of all of us :
the democratization of philanthropy .
this is a moment in history when the average person has more power than at any time .
what i 'm going to do is look at five categories of experiments , each of which challenges an old assumption of philanthropy .
the first is mass collaboration , represented here by wikipedia .
now , this may surprise you .
but remember , philanthropy is about giving of time and talent , not just money .
clay shirky , that great chronicler of everything networked , has captured the assumption that this challenges in such a beautiful way .
he said , " we have lived in this world where little things are done for love and big things for money .
now we have wikipedia .
suddenly big things can be done for love . " watch , this spring , for paul hawken 's new book --
author and entrepreneur many of you may know about .
the book is called " blessed unrest . "
and when it comes out , a series of wiki sites under the label wiser , are going to launch at the same time .
wiser stands for world index for social and environmental responsibility .
wiser sets out to document , link and empower what paul calls the largest movement , and fastest-growing movement in human history :
humanity 's collective immune response to today 's threats .
now , all of these big things for love -- experiments -- aren 't going to take off .
but the ones that do are going to be the biggest , the most open , the fastest , the most connected form of philanthropy in human history .
second category is online philanthropy marketplaces .
this is , of course , to philanthropy what ebay and amazon are to commerce .
think of it as peer-to-peer philanthropy .
and this challenges yet another assumption , which is that organized philanthropy is only for the very wealthy .
take a look , if you haven 't , at donorschoose .
omidyar network has made a big investment in donorschoose .
it 's one of the best known of these new marketplaces where a donor can go straight into a classroom and connect with what a teacher says they need .
take a look at changing the present , started by a tedster , next time you need a wedding present or a holiday present .
giveindia is for a whole country .
and it goes on and on .
the third category is represented by warren buffet ,
which i call aggregated giving .
it 's not just that warren buffet was so amazingly generous in that historic act last summer .
it 's that he challenged another assumption , that every giver should have his or her own fund or foundation .
there are now , today , so many new funds that are aggregating giving and investing , bringing together people around a common goal , to think bigger .
one of the best known is acumen fund , led by jacqueline novogratz , a tedster who got a big boost here at ted .
but there are many others : new profit in cambridge , new school 's venture fund in silicon valley , venture philanthropy partners in washington , global fund for women in san francisco .
take a look at these .
these funds are to philanthropy what venture capital , private equity , and eventually mutual funds are to investing ,
but with a twist -- because often a community forms around these funds , as it has at acumen and other places .
now , imagine for a second these first three types of experiments : mass collaboration , online marketplaces , aggregated giving .
and understand how they help us re-perceive what organized philanthropy is .
it 's not about foundations necessarily ; it 's about the rest of us .
and imagine the mash-up , if you will , of these things , in the future , when these things come together in the experiments of the future -- imagine that somebody puts up , say , 100 million dollars for an inspiring goal -- there were 21 gifts of 100 million dollars or more in the us last year , not out of the question -- but only puts it up if it 's matched by millions of small gifts from around the globe ,
thereby engaging lots of people , and building visibility and engaging people in the goal that 's stated .
i 'm going to look quickly at the fourth and fifth categories , which are innovation , competitions and social investing .
they 're betting a visible competition , a prize , can attract talent and money to some of the most difficult issues , and thereby speed the solution .
this tackles yet another assumption , that the giver and the organization is at the center , as opposed to putting the problem at the center .
you can look to these innovators to help us especially with things that require technological or scientific solution .
that leaves the final category , social investing , which is really , anyway , the biggest of them all ,
represented here by xigi.net .
and this , of course , tackles the biggest assumption of all , that business is business , and philanthropy is the vehicle of people who want to create change in the world .
xigi is a new community site that 's built by the community , linking and mapping this new social capital market .
it lists already 1,000 entities that are offering debt and equity for social enterprise .
so we can look to these innovators to help us remember that if we can leverage even a small amount of the capital that seeks a return , the good that can be driven could be astonishing .
now , what 's really interesting here is that we 're not thinking our way into a new way of acting ;
we 're acting our way into a new way of thinking .
philanthropy is reorganizing itself before our very eyes .
and even though all of the experiments and all of the big givers don 't yet fulfill this aspiration , i think this is the new zeitgeist : open , big , fast , connected ,
and , let us also hope , long .
we have got to realize that it is going to take a long time to do these things .
if we don 't develop the stamina to stick with things -- whatever it is you pick , stick with it -- all of this stuff is just going to be , you know , a fad .
but i 'm really hopeful .
and i 'm hopeful because it 's not only philanthropy that 's reorganizing itself ,
it 's also whole other portions of the social sector , and of business , that are busy challenging " business as usual . "
and everywhere i go , including here at ted , i feel that there is a new moral hunger that is growing . what we 're seeing is people really wrestling to describe what is this new thing that 's happening .
words like " philanthrocapitalism , " and " natural capitalism , " and " philanthroentrepreneur , " and " venture philanthropy . "
we don 't have a language for it yet .
whatever we call it , it 's new , it 's beginning , and i think it 's gong to quite significant .
and that 's where my imagined future comes in ,
which i am going to call the social singularity .
many of you will realize that i 'm ripping a bit off of the science fiction writer vernor vinge 's notion of a technological singularity , where a number of trends accelerate and converge and come together to create , really , a shockingly new reality .
it may be that the social singularity ahead is the one that we fear the most :
a convergence of catastrophes , of environmental degradation , of weapons of mass destruction , of pandemics , of poverty .
that 's because our ability to confront the problems that we face has not kept pace with our ability to create them .
and as we 've heard here , it is no exaggeration to say that we hold the future of our civilization in our hands as never before .
the question is , is there a positive social singularity ?
is there a frontier for us of how we live together ?
our future doesn 't have to be imagined .
we can create a future where hope and history rhyme .
but we have a problem .
our experience to date , both individually and collectively , hasn 't prepared us for what we 're going to need to do , or who we 're going to need to be .
we are going to need a new generation of citizen leaders willing to commit ourselves to growing and changing and learning as rapidly as possible .
that 's why i have one last thing i want to show you .
this is a photograph taken about 100 years ago of my grandfather and great-grandfather .
this is a newspaper publisher and a banker .
and they were great community leaders .
and , yes , they were great philanthropists .
i keep this photograph close by to me --
it 's in my office --
because i 've always felt a mystical connection to these two men , both of whom i never knew .
and so , in their honor , i want to offer you this blank slide .
and i want you to imagine that this a photograph of you .
and i want you to think about the community that you want to be part of creating . whatever that means to you .
and i want you to imagine that it 's 100 years from now , and your grandchild , or great-grandchild , or niece or nephew or god-child , is looking at this photograph of you .
what is the story you most want for them to tell ?
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / chris _ gerdes _ the _ future _ race _ car _ 150mph _ and _ no _ driver.html
autonomous cars are coming -- and they 're going to drive better than you . chris gerdes reveals how he and his team are developing robotic race cars that can drive at 150 mph while avoiding every possible accident . and yet , in studying the brainwaves of professional racing drivers , gerdes says he has gained a new appreciation for the instincts of professional drivers . < em > < / em >
cars , future , technology
1506
chris gerdes : the future race car -- 150mph , and no driver
so , how many of you have ever gotten behind the wheel of a car when you really shouldn 't have been driving ?
maybe you 're out on the road for a long day , and you just wanted to get home .
you were tired , but you felt you could drive a few more miles .
maybe you thought , i 've had less to drink than everybody else , i should be the one to go home .
or maybe your mind was just entirely elsewhere .
does this sound familiar to you ?
now , in those situations , wouldn 't it be great if there was a button on your dashboard that you could push , and the car would get you home safely ?
now , that 's been the promise of the self-driving car , the autonomous vehicle , and it 's been the dream since at least 1939 , when general motors showcased this idea at their futurama booth at the world 's fair .
now , it 's been one of those dreams that 's always seemed about 20 years in the future .
now , two weeks ago , that dream took a step forward , when the state of nevada granted google 's self-driving car the very first license for an autonomous vehicle , clearly establishing that it 's legal for them to test it on the roads in nevada .
now , california 's considering similar legislation , and this would make sure that the autonomous car is not one of those things that has to stay in vegas .
now , in my lab at stanford , we 've been working on autonomous cars too , but with a slightly different spin on things . you see , we 've been developing robotic race cars , cars that can actually push themselves to the very limits of physical performance .
now , why would we want to do such a thing ?
well , there 's two really good reasons for this .
first , we believe that before people turn over control to an autonomous car , that autonomous car should be at least as good as the very best human drivers .
now , if you 're like me , and the other 70 percent of the population who know that we are above-average drivers , you understand that 's a very high bar .
there 's another reason as well .
just like race car drivers can use all of the friction between the tire and the road , all of the car 's capabilities to go as fast as possible , we want to use all of those capabilities to avoid any accident we can .
now , you may push the car to the limits not because you 're driving too fast , but because you 've hit an icy patch of road , conditions have changed .
in those situations , we want a car that is capable enough to avoid any accident that can physically be avoided .
i must confess , there 's kind of a third motivation as well .
you see , i have a passion for racing .
in the past , i 've been a race car owner , a crew chief and a driving coach , although maybe not at the level that you 're currently expecting .
one of the things that we 've developed in the lab -- we 've developed several vehicles -- is what we believe is the world 's first autonomously drifting car .
it 's another one of those categories where maybe there 's not a lot of competition .
but this is p1 . it 's an entirely student-built electric vehicle , which through using its rear-wheel drive and front-wheel steer-by-wire can drift around corners .
it can get sideways like a rally car driver , always able to take the tightest curve , even on slippery , changing surfaces , never spinning out .
we 've also worked with volkswagen oracle , on shelley , an autonomous race car that has raced at 150 miles an hour through the bonneville salt flats , gone around thunderhill raceway park in the sun , the wind and the rain , and navigated the 153 turns and 12.4 miles of the pikes peak hill climb route in colorado with nobody at the wheel .
i guess it goes without saying that we 've had a lot of fun doing this .
but in fact , there 's something else that we 've developed in the process of developing these autonomous cars .
we have developed a tremendous appreciation for the capabilities of human race car drivers .
as we 've looked at the question of how well do these cars perform , we wanted to compare them to our human counterparts .
and we discovered their human counterparts are amazing .
now , we can take a map of a race track , we can take a mathematical model of a car , and with some iteration , we can actually find the fastest way around that track .
we line that up with data that we record from a professional driver , and the resemblance is absolutely remarkable .
yes , there are subtle differences here , but the human race car driver is able to go out and drive an amazingly fast line , without the benefit of an algorithm that compares the trade-off between going as fast as possible in this corner , and shaving a little bit of time off of the straight over here .
not only that , they 're able to do it lap after lap after lap .
they 're able to go out and consistently do this , pushing the car to the limits every single time .
it 's extraordinary to watch .
you put them in a new car , and after a few laps , they 've found the fastest line in that car , and they 're off to the races .
it really makes you think , we 'd love to know what 's going on inside their brain .
so as researchers , that 's what we decided to find out .
we decided to instrument not only the car , but also the race car driver , to try to get a glimpse into what was going on in their head as they were doing this .
now , this is dr. lene harbott applying electrodes to the head of john morton .
john morton is a former can-am and imsa driver , who 's also a class champion at le mans .
fantastic driver , and very willing to put up with graduate students and this sort of research .
she 's putting electrodes on his head so that we can monitor the electrical activity in john 's brain as he races around the track .
now , clearly we 're not going to put a couple of electrodes on his head and understand exactly what all of his thoughts are on the track .
however , neuroscientists have identified certain patterns that let us tease out some very important aspects of this .
for instance , the resting brain tends to generate a lot of alpha waves .
in contrast , theta waves are associated with a lot of cognitive activity , like visual processing , things where the driver is thinking quite a bit .
now , we can measure this , and we can look at the relative power between the theta waves and the alpha waves .
this gives us a measure of mental workload , how much the driver is actually challenged cognitively at any point along the track .
now , we wanted to see if we could actually record this on the track , so we headed down south to laguna seca .
laguna seca is a legendary raceway about halfway between salinas and monterey .
it has a curve there called the corkscrew .
now , the corkscrew is a chicane , followed by a quick right-handed turn as the road drops three stories .
now , the strategy for driving this as explained to me was , you aim for the bush in the distance , and as the road falls away , you realize it was actually the top of a tree .
all right , so thanks to the revs program at stanford , we were able to take john there and put him behind the wheel of a 1960 porsche abarth carrera .
life is way too short for boring cars .
so , here you see john on the track , he 's going up the hill -- oh ! somebody liked that -- and you can see , actually , his mental workload -- measuring here in the red bar -- you can see his actions as he approaches .
now watch , he has to downshift .
and then he has to turn left .
look for the tree , and down .
not surprisingly , you can see this is a pretty challenging task .
you can see his mental workload spike as he goes through this , as you would expect with something that requires this level of complexity .
but what 's really interesting is to look at areas of the track where his mental workload doesn 't increase .
i 'm going to take you around now to the other side of the track .
turn three . and john 's going to go into that corner and the rear end of the car is going to begin to slide out .
he 's going to have to correct for that with steering .
so watch as john does this here .
watch the mental workload , and watch the steering .
the car begins to slide out , dramatic maneuver to correct it , and no change whatsoever in the mental workload .
not a challenging task .
in fact , entirely reflexive .
now , our data processing on this is still preliminary , but it really seems that these phenomenal feats that the race car drivers are performing are instinctive .
they are things that they have simply learned to do .
it requires very little mental workload for them to perform these amazing feats .
and their actions are fantastic .
this is exactly what you want to do on the steering wheel to catch the car in this situation .
now , this has given us tremendous insight and inspiration for our own autonomous vehicles .
we 've started to ask the question : can we make them a little less algorithmic and a little more intuitive ?
can we take this reflexive action that we see from the very best race car drivers , introduce it to our cars , and maybe even into a system that could get onto your car in the future ?
that would take us a long step along the road to autonomous vehicles that drive as well as the best humans .
but it 's made us think a little bit more deeply as well .
do we want something more from our car than to simply be a chauffeur ?
do we want our car to perhaps be a partner , a coach , someone that can use their understanding of the situation to help us reach our potential ?
can , in fact , the technology not simply replace humans , but allow us to reach the level of reflex and intuition that we 're all capable of ?
so , as we move forward into this technological future , i want you to just pause and think of that for a moment .
what is the ideal balance of human and machine ?
and as we think about that , let 's take inspiration from the absolutely amazing capabilities of the human body and the human mind .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / stefana _ broadbent _ how _ the _ internet _ enables _ intimacy.html
we worry that im , texting , facebook are spoiling human intimacy , but stefana broadbent 's research shows how communication tech is capable of cultivating deeper relationships , bringing love across barriers like distance and workplace rules .
anthropology , humanity , love , psychology , social media , society , technology
680
stefana broadbent : how the internet enables intimacy
i believe that there are new , hidden tensions that are actually happening between people and institutions -- institutions that are the institutions that people inhabit in their daily life : schools , hospitals , workplaces , factories , offices , etc .
and something that i see happening is something that i would like to call a sort of " democratization of intimacy . "
and what do i mean by that ?
i mean that what people are doing is , in fact , they are sort of , with their communication channels , they are breaking an imposed isolation that these institutions are imposing on them .
how are they doing this ? they 're doing it in a very simple way , by calling their mom from work , by iming from their office to their friends , by texting under the desk .
the pictures that you 're seeing behind me are people that i visited in the last few months .
and i asked them to come along with the person they communicate with most .
and somebody brought a boyfriend , somebody a father .
one young woman brought her grandfather .
for 20 years , i 've been looking at how people use channels such as email , the mobile phone , texting , etc . what we 're actually going to see is that , fundamentally , people are communicating on a regular basis with five , six , seven of their most intimate sphere .
now , lets take some data . facebook .
recently some sociologists from facebook -- facebook is the channel that you would expect is the most enlargening of all channels .
and an average user , said cameron marlow , from facebook , has about 120 friends .
but he actually talks to , has two-way exchanges with , about four to six people on a regular base , depending on his gender .
academic research on instant messaging also shows 100 people on buddy lists , but fundamentally people chat with two , three , four -- anyway , less than five .
my own research on cellphones and voice calls shows that 80 percent of the calls are actually made to four people . 80 percent .
and when you go to skype , it 's down to two people .
a lot of sociologists actually are quite disappointed .
i mean , i 've been a bit disappointed sometimes when i saw this data and all this deployment , just for five people .
and some sociologists actually feel that it 's a closure , it 's a cocooning , that we 're disengaging from the public .
and i would actually , i would like to show you that if we actually look at who is doing it , and from where they 're doing it , actually there is an incredible social transformation .
there are three stories that i think are quite good examples .
the first gentleman , he 's a baker . and so he starts working every morning at four o 'clock in the morning .
and around eight o 'clock he sort of sneaks away from his oven , cleans his hands from the flour and calls his wife .
he just wants to wish her a good day , because that 's the start of her day .
and i 've heard this story a number of times .
a young factory worker who works night shifts , who manages to sneak away from the factory floor , where there is cctv by the way , and find a corner , where at 11 o 'clock at night he can call his girlfriend and just say goodnight .
or a mother who , at four o 'clock , suddenly manages to find a corner in the toilet to check that her children are safely home .
then there is another couple , there is a brazilian couple .
they 've lived in italy for a number of years .
they skype with their families a few times a week .
but once a fortnight , they actually put the computer on their dining table , pull out the webcam and actually have dinner with their family in sao paulo . and they have a big event of it .
and i heard this story the first time a couple of years ago from a very modest family of immigrants from kosovo in switzerland .
they had set up a big screen in their living room ,
and every morning they had breakfast with their grandmother .
but danny miller , who is a very good anthropologist who is working on filipina migrant women who leave their children back in the philippines , was telling me about how much parenting is going on through skype , and how much these mothers are engaged with their children through skype .
and then there is the third couple . they are two friends .
they chat to each other every day , a few times a day actually .
and finally , finally , they 've managed to put instant messaging on their computers at work .
and now , obviously , they have it open .
whenever they have a moment they chat to each other .
and this is exactly what we 've been seeing with teenagers and kids doing it in school , under the table , and texting under the table to their friends .
so , none of these cases are unique .
i mean , i could tell you hundreds of them .
but what is really exceptional is the setting .
so , think of the three settings i 've talked to you about : factory , migration , office .
but it could be in a school , it could be an administration , it could be a hospital .
three settings that , if we just step back 15 years , if you just think back 15 years , when you clocked in , when you clocked in to an office , when you clocked in to a factory , there was no contact for the whole duration of the time , there was no contact with your private sphere .
if you were lucky there was a public phone hanging in the corridor or somewhere .
if you were in management , oh , that was a different story .
maybe you had a direct line .
if you were not , you maybe had to go through an operator .
but basically , when you walked into those buildings , the private sphere was left behind you .
and this has become such a norm of our professional lives , such a norm and such an expectation .
and it had nothing to do with technical capability .
the phones were there . but the expectation was once you moved in there your commitment was fully to the task at hand , fully to the people around you .
that was where the focus had to be .
and this has become such a cultural norm that we actually school our children for them to be capable to do this cleavage .
if you think nursery , kindergarten , first years of school are just dedicated to take away the children , to make them used to staying long hours away from their family .
and then the school enacts perfectly well . it mimics perfectly all the rituals that we will find in offices : rituals of entry , rituals of exit , the schedules , the uniforms in this country , things that identify you , team-building activities ,
team building that will allow you to basically be with a random group of kids , or a random group of people that you will have to be with for a number of time .
and of course , the major thing : learn to pay attention , to concentrate and focus your attention .
this only started about 150 years ago .
it only started with the birth of modern bureaucracy , and of industrial revolution .
when people basically had to go somewhere else to work and carry out the work .
and when with modern bureaucracy there was a very rational approach , where there was a clear distinction between the private sphere and the public sphere .
so , until then , basically people were living on top of their trades .
they were living on top of the land they were laboring .
they were living on top of the workshops where they were working .
and if you think , it 's permeated our whole culture , even our cities .
if you think of medieval cities , medieval cities the boroughs all have the names of the guilds and professions that lived there .
now we have sprawling residential suburbias that are well distinct from production areas and commercial areas .
and actually , over these 150 years , there has been a very clear class system that also has emerged .
so the lower the status of the job and of the person carrying out , the more removed he would be from his personal sphere .
people have taken this amazing possibility of actually being in contact all through the day or in all types of situations .
and they are doing it massively .
the pew institute , which produces good data on a regular basis on , for instance , in the states , says that -- and i think that this number is conservative -- 50 percent of anybody with email access at work is actually doing private email from his office .
i really think that the number is conservative .
in my own research , we saw that the peak for private email is actually 11 o 'clock in the morning , whatever the country .
75 percent of people admit doing private conversations from work on their mobile phones .
100 percent are using text .
the point is that this re-appropriation of the personal sphere is not terribly successful with all institutions .
i 'm always surprised the u.s. army sociologists are discussing of the impact for instance , of soldiers in iraq having daily contact with their families .
but there are many institutions that are actually blocking this access .
and every day , every single day , i read news that makes me cringe , like a $ 15 fine to kids in texas , for using , every time they take out their mobile phone in school .
immediate dismissal to bus drivers in new york , if seen with a mobile phone in a hand .
companies blocking access to im or to facebook .
behind issues of security and safety , which have always been the arguments for social control , in fact what is going on is that these institutions are trying to decide who , in fact , has a right to self determine their attention , to decide , whether they should , or not , be isolated .
and they are actually trying to block , in a certain sense , this movement of a greater possibility of intimacy .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / majora _ carter _ 3 _ stories _ of _ local _ ecoactivism.html
the future of green is local -- and entrepreneurial . at tedxmidwest , majora carter brings us the stories of three people who are saving their own communities while saving the planet . call it " hometown security . "
business , community , economics , green
1041
majora carter : 3 stories of local eco-entrepreneurship
so today , i 'm going to tell you about some people who didn 't move out of their neighborhoods .
the first one is happening right here in chicago .
brenda palms-farber was hired to help ex-convicts reenter society and keep them from going back into prison .
currently , taxpayers spend about 60,000 dollars per year sending a person to jail .
we know that two-thirds of them are going to go back .
i find it interesting that , for every one dollar we spend , however , on early childhood education , like head start , we save 17 dollars on stuff like incarceration in the future .
or -- think about it -- that 60,000 dollars is more than what it costs to send one person to harvard as well .
but brenda , not being phased by stuff like that , took a look at her challenge and came up with a not-so-obvious solution : create a business that produces skin care products from honey .
okay , it might be obvious to some of you ; it wasn 't to me .
it 's the basis of growing a form of social innovation that has real potential .
she hired seemingly unemployable men and women to care for the bees , harvest the honey and make value-added products that they marketed themselves , and that were later sold at whole foods .
she combined employment experience and training with life skills they needed , like anger-management and teamwork , and also how to talk to future employers about how their experiences actually demonstrated the lessons that they had learned and their eagerness to learn more .
less than four percent of the folks that went through her program actually go back to jail .
so these young men and women learned job-readiness and life skills through bee keeping and became productive citizens in the process .
talk about a sweet beginning .
now , i 'm going to take you to los angeles ,
and lots of people know that l.a. has its issues .
but i 'm going to talk about l.a. ' s water issues right now .
they have not enough water on most days and too much to handle when it rains .
currently , 20 percent of california 's energy consumption is used to pump water into mostly southern california .
their spending loads , loads , to channel that rainwater out into the ocean when it rains and floods as well .
now andy lipkis is working to help l.a. cut infrastructure costs associated with water management and urban heat island -- linking trees , people and technology to create a more livable city .
all that green stuff actually naturally absorbs storm water , also helps cool our cities .
because , come to think about it , do you really want air-conditioning , or is it a cooler room that you want ?
how you get it shouldn 't make that much of a difference .
so a few years ago , l.a. county decided that they needed to spend 2.5 billion dollars to repair the city schools .
and andy and his team discovered that they were going to spend 200 million of those dollars on asphalt to surround the schools themselves .
and by presenting a really strong economic case , they convinced the l.a. government that replacing that asphalt with trees and other greenery , that the schools themselves would save the system more on energy than they spend on horticultural infrastructure .
so ultimately , 20 million square feet of asphalt was replaced or avoided , and electrical consumption for air-conditioning went down , while employment for people to maintain those grounds went up , resulting in a net-savings to the system , but also healthier students and schools system employees as well .
now judy bonds is a coal miner 's daughter .
her family has eight generations in a town called whitesville , west virginia .
and if anyone should be clinging to the former glory of the coal mining history , and of the town , it should be judy .
but the way coal is mined right now is different from the deep mines that her father and her father 's father would go down into and that employed essentially thousands and thousands of people .
now , two dozen men can tear down a mountain in several months , and only for about a few years ' worth of coal .
that kind of technology is called " mountaintop removal . "
it can make a mountain go from this to this in a few short months .
just imagine that the air surrounding these places -- it 's filled with the residue of explosives and coal .
when we visited , it gave some of the people we were with this strange little cough after being only there for just a few hours or so -- not just miners , but everybody .
and judy saw her landscape being destroyed and her water poisoned .
and the coal companies just move on after the mountain was emptied , leaving even more unemployment in their wake .
but she also saw the difference in potential wind energy on an intact mountain , and one that was reduced in elevation by over 2,000 feet .
three years of dirty energy with not many jobs , or centuries of clean energy with the potential for developing expertise and improvements in efficiency based on technical skills , and developing local knowledge about how to get the most out of that region 's wind .
she calculated the up-front cost and the payback over time , and it 's a net-plus on so many levels for the local , national and global economy .
it 's a longer payback than mountaintop removal , but the wind energy actually pays back forever .
now mountaintop removal pays very little money to the locals , and it gives them a lot of misery .
the water is turned into goo .
most people are still unemployed , leading to most of the same kinds of social problems that unemployed people in inner cities also experience -- drug and alcohol abuse , domestic abuse , teen pregnancy and poor heath , as well .
now judy and i -- i have to say -- totally related to each other .
not quite an obvious alliance .
i mean , literally , her hometown is called whitesville , west virginia .
i mean , they are not -- they ain 't competing for the birthplace of hip hop title or anything like that .
but the back of my t-shirt , the one that she gave me , says , " save the endangered hillbillies . "
so homegirls and hillbillies we got it together and totally understand that this is what it 's all about .
but just a few months ago , judy was diagnosed with stage-three lung cancer .
yeah .
and it has since moved to her bones and her brain .
and i just find it so bizarre that she 's suffering from the same thing that she tried so hard to protect people from .
but her dream of coal river mountain wind is her legacy .
and she might not get to see that mountaintop .
but rather than writing yet some kind of manifesto or something , she 's leaving behind a business plan to make it happen .
that 's what my homegirl is doing .
so i 'm so proud of that .
but these three people don 't know each other , but they do have an awful lot in common .
they 're all problem solvers , and they 're just some of the many examples that i really am privileged to see , meet and learn from in the examples of the work that i do now .
i was really lucky to have them all featured on my corporation for public radio radio show called thepromisedland.org .
now they 're all very practical visionaries .
they take a look at the demands that are out there -- beauty products , healthy schools , electricity -- and how the money 's flowing to meet those demands .
and when the cheapest solutions involve reducing the number of jobs , you 're left with unemployed people , and those people aren 't cheap .
in fact , they make up some of what i call the most expensive citizens , and they include generationally impoverished , traumatized vets returning from the middle east , people coming out of jail .
and for the veterans in particular , the v.a. said there 's a six-fold increase in mental health pharmaceuticals by vets since 2003 .
i think that number 's probably going to go up .
they 're not the largest number of people , but they are some of the most expensive --
and in terms of the likelihood for domestic abuse , drug and alcohol abuse , poor performance by their kids in schools and also poor health as a result of stress .
so these three guys all understand how to productively channel dollars through our local economies to meet existing market demands , reduce the social problems that we have now and prevent new problems in the future .
and there are plenty of other examples like that .
one problem : waste handling and unemployment .
even when we think or talk about recycling , lots of recyclable stuff ends up getting incinerated or in landfills and leaving many municipalities , diversion rates -- they leave much to be recycled .
and where is this waste handled ? usually in poor communities .
and we know that eco-industrial business , these kinds of business models -- there 's a model in europe called the eco-industrial park , where either the waste of one company is the raw material for another , or you use recycled materials to make goods that you can actually use and sell .
we can create these local markets and incentives for recycled materials to be used as raw materials for manufacturing .
and in my hometown , we actually tried to do one of these in the bronx , but our mayor decided what he wanted to see was a jail on that same spot .
fortunately -- because we wanted to create hundreds of jobs -- but after many years , the city wanted to build a jail . they 've since abandoned that project , thank goodness .
another problem : unhealthy food systems and unemployment .
working-class and poor urban americans are not benefiting economically from our current food system .
it relies too much on transportation , chemical fertilization , big use of water and also refrigeration .
mega agricultural operations often are responsible for poisoning our waterways and our land , and it produces this incredibly unhealthy product that costs us billions in healthcare and lost productivity .
and so we know " urban ag " is a big buzz topic this time of the year , but it 's mostly gardening , which has some value in community building -- lots of it -- but it 's not in terms of creating jobs or for food production .
the numbers just aren 't there .
part of my work now is really laying the groundwork to integrate urban ag and rural food systems to hasten the demise of the 3,000-mile salad by creating a national brand of urban-grown produce in every city , that uses regional growing power and augments it with indoor growing facilities , owned and operated by small growers , where now there are only consumers .
this can support seasonal farmers around metro areas who are losing out because they really can 't meet the year-round demand for produce .
it 's not a competition with rural farm ; it 's actually reinforcements .
it allies in a really positive and economically viable food system .
the goal is to meet the cities ' institutional demands for hospitals , senior centers , schools , daycare centers , and produce a network of regional jobs , as well .
this is smart infrastructure .
and how we manage our built environment affects the health and well-being of people every single day .
our municipalities , rural and urban , play the operational course of infrastructure -- things like waste disposal , energy demand , as well as social costs of unemployment , drop-out rates , incarceration rates and the impacts of various public health costs .
smart infrastructure can provide cost-saving ways for municipalities to handle both infrastructure and social needs .
and we want to shift the systems that open the doors for people who were formerly tax burdens to become part of the tax base .
and imagine a national business model that creates local jobs and smart infrastructure to improve local economic stability .
so i 'm hoping you can see a little theme here .
these examples indicate a trend .
i haven 't created it , and it 's not happening by accident .
i 'm noticing that it 's happening all over the country , and the good news is that it 's growing .
and we all need to be invested in it .
it is an essential pillar to this country 's recovery .
and i call it " hometown security . "
the recession has us reeling and fearful , and there 's something in the air these days that is also very empowering .
it 's a realization that we are the key to our own recovery .
now is the time for us to act in our own communities where we think local and we act local .
and when we do that , our neighbors -- be they next-door , or in the next state , or in the next country -- will be just fine .
the sum of the local is the global .
hometown security means rebuilding our natural defenses , putting people to work , restoring our natural systems .
hometown security means creating wealth here at home , instead of destroying it overseas . tackling social and environmental problems at the same time with the same solution yields great cost savings , wealth generation and national security .
many great and inspiring solutions have been generated across america .
the challenge for us now is to identify and support countless more .
now , hometown security is about taking care of your own , but it 's not like the old saying , " charity begins at home . "
i recently read a book called " love leadership " by john hope bryant .
and it 's about leading in a world that really does seem to be operating on the basis of fear .
and reading that book made me reexamine that theory because i need to explain what i mean by that .
see , my dad was a great , great man in many ways .
he grew up in the segregated south , escaped lynching and all that during some really hard times , and he provided a really stable home for me and my siblings and a whole bunch of other people that fell on hard times .
but , like all of us , he had some problems .
and his was gambling , compulsively .
to him that phrase , " charity begins at home , " meant that my payday -- or someone else 's -- would just happen to coincide with his lucky day .
so you need to help him out .
and sometimes i would loan him money from my after-school or summer jobs , and he always had the great intention of paying me back with interest , of course , after he hit it big .
and he did sometimes , believe it or not , at a racetrack in los angeles -- one reason to love l.a. -- back in the 1940s .
he made 15,000 dollars cash and bought the house that i grew up in .
so i 'm not that unhappy about that .
but listen , i did feel obligated to him , and i grew up -- then i grew up .
and i 'm a grown woman now ,
and i have learned a few things along the way .
to me , charity often is just about giving , because you 're supposed to , or because it 's what you 've always done , or it 's about giving until it hurts .
i 'm about providing the means to build something that will grow and intensify its original investment and not just require greater giving next year -- i 'm not trying to feed the habit .
i spent some years watching how good intentions for community empowerment , that were supposed to be there to support the community and empower it , actually left people in the same , if not worse , position that they were in before .
and over the past 20 years , we 've spent record amounts of philanthropic dollars on social problems , yet educational outcomes , malnutrition , incarceration , obesity , diabetes , income disparity , they 've all gone up with some exceptions -- in particular , infant mortality among people in poverty -- but it 's a great world that we 're bringing them into as well .
and i know a little bit about these issues , because , for many years , i spent a long time in the non-profit industrial complex ,
and i 'm a recovering executive director , two years clean .
but during that time , i realized that it was about projects and developing them on the local level that really was going to do the right thing for our communities .
but i really did struggle for financial support .
the greater our success , the less money came in from foundations .
and i tell you , being on the ted stage and winning a macarthur in the same exact year gave everyone the impression that i had arrived .
and by the time i 'd moved on , i was actually covering a third of my agency 's budget deficit with speaking fees .
and i think because early on , frankly , my programs were just a little bit ahead of their time .
but since then , the park that was just a dump and was featured at a ted2006 talk became this little thing .
but i did in fact get married in it .
over here .
there goes my dog who led me to the park in my wedding .
the south bronx greenway was also just a drawing on the stage back in 2006 .
since then , we got about 50 million dollars in stimulus package money to come and get here .
and we love this , because i love construction now , because we 're watching these things actually happen .
so i want everyone to understand the critical importance of shifting charity into enterprise .
i started my firm to help communities across the country realize their own potential to improve everything about the quality of life for their people .
hometown security is next on my to-do list .
what we need are people who see the value in investing in these types of local enterprises , who will partner with folks like me to identify the growth trends and climate adaptation as well as understand the growing social costs of business as usual .
we need to work together to embrace and repair our land , repair our power systems and repair ourselves .
it 's time to stop building the shopping malls , the prisons , the stadiums and other tributes to all of our collective failures .
it is time that we start building living monuments to hope and possibility .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / britta _ riley _ a _ garden _ in _ my _ apartment.html
britta riley wanted to grow her own food . so she and her friends developed a system for growing plants in discarded plastic bottles -- researching , testing and tweaking the system using social media , trying many variations at once and quickly arriving at the optimal system . call it distributed diy . and the results ? delicious .
collaboration , design , food
1284
britta riley : a garden in my apartment
i , like many of you , am one of the two billion people on earth who live in cities .
and there are days -- i don 't know about the rest of you guys -- but there are days when i palpably feel how much i rely on other people for pretty much everything in my life .
and some days , that can even be a little scary .
but what i 'm here to talk to you about today is how that same interdependence is actually an extremely powerful social infrastructure that we can actually harness to help heal some of our deepest civic issues , if we apply open source collaboration .
a couple of years ago , i read an article by new york times writer michael pollan in which he argued that growing even some of our own food is one of the best things that we can do for the environment .
now at the time that i was reading this , it was the middle of the winter and i definitely did not have room for a lot of dirt in my new york city apartment .
so i was basically just willing to settle for just reading the next wired magazine and finding out how the experts were going to figure out how to solve all these problems for us in the future .
but that was actually exactly the point that michael pollan was making in this article -- was it 's precisely when we hand over the responsibility for all these things to specialists that we cause the kind of messes that we see with the food system .
so , i happen to know a little bit from my own work about how nasa has been using hydroponics to explore growing food in space .
and you can actually get optimal nutritional yield by running a kind of high-quality liquid soil over plants ' root systems .
now to a vegetable plant , my apartment has got to be about as foreign as outer space .
but i can offer some natural light and year-round climate control .
fast-forward two years later : we now have window farms , which are vertical , hydroponic platforms for food-growing indoors .
and the way it works is that there 's a pump at the bottom , which periodically sends some of this liquid nutrient solution up to the top , which then trickles down through plants ' root systems that are suspended in clay pellets -- so there 's no dirt involved .
now light and temperature vary with each window 's microclimate , so a window farm requires a farmer , and she must decide what kind of crops she is going to put in her window farm , and whether she is going to feed her food organically .
back at the time , a window farm was no more than a technically complex idea that was going to require a lot of testing .
and i really wanted it to be an open project , because hydroponics is one of the fastest growing areas of patenting in the united states right now and could possibly become another area like monsanto , where we have a lot of corporate intellectual property in the way of people 's food .
so i decided that , instead of creating a product , what i was going to do was open this up to a whole bunch of co-developers .
the first few systems that we created , they kind of worked .
we were actually able to grow about a salad a week in a typical new york city apartment window .
and we were able to grow cherry tomatoes and cucumbers , all kinds of stuff .
but the first few systems were these leaky , loud power-guzzlers that martha stewart would definitely never have approved .
so to bring on more co-developers , what we did was we created a social media site on which we published the designs , we explained how they worked , and we even went so far as to point out everything that was wrong with these systems .
and then we invited people all over the world to build them and experiment with us .
so actually now on this website , we have 18,000 people .
and we have window farms all over the world .
what we 're doing is what nasa or a large corporation would call r & d , or research and development .
but what we call it is r & d-i-y , or research and develop it yourself .
so for example , jackson came along and suggested that we use air pumps instead of water pumps .
it took building a whole bunch of systems to get it right , but once we did , we were able to cut our carbon footprint nearly in half .
tony in chicago has been taking on growing experiments , like lots of other window farmers , and he 's been able to get his strawberries to fruit for nine months of the year in low-light conditions by simply changing out the organic nutrients .
and window farmers in finland have been customizing their window farms for the dark days of the finnish winters by outfitting them with led grow lights that they 're now making open source and part of the project .
so window farms have been evolving through a rapid versioning process similar to software .
and with every open source project , the real benefit is the interplay between the specific concerns of people customizing their systems for their own particular concerns and the universal concerns .
so my core team and i are able to concentrate on the improvements that really benefit everyone .
and we 're able to look out for the needs of newcomers .
so for do-it-yourselfers , we provide free , very well-tested instructions so that anyone , anywhere around the world , can build one of these systems for free .
and there 's a patent pending on these systems as well that 's held by the community .
and to fund the project , we partner to create products that we then sell to schools and to individuals who don 't have time to build their own systems .
now within our community , a certain culture has appeared .
in our culture , it is better to be a tester who supports someone else 's idea than it is to be just the idea guy .
what we get out of this project is we get support for our own work , as well as an experience of actually contributing to the environmental movement in a way other than just screwing in new light bulbs .
but i think that eileen expresses best what we really get out of this , which is the actual joy of collaboration .
so she expresses here what it 's like to see someone halfway across the world having taken your idea , built upon it and then acknowledging you for contributing .
if we really want to see the kind of wide consumer behavior change that we 're all talking about as environmentalists and food people , maybe we just need to ditch the term " consumer " and get behind the people who are doing stuff .
open source projects tend to have a momentum of their own .
and what we 're seeing is that r & d-i-y has moved beyond just window farms and leds into solar panels and aquaponic systems .
and we 're building upon innovations of generations who went before us .
and we 're looking ahead at generations who really need us to retool our lives now .
so we ask that you join us in rediscovering the value of citizens united , and to declare that we are all still pioneers .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / nicholas _ negroponte _ on _ one _ laptop _ per _ child _ two _ years _ on.html
nicholas negroponte talks about how one laptop per child is doing , two years in . speaking at the eg conference while the first xo laptops roll off the production line , he recaps the controversies and recommits to the goals of this far-reaching project .
one laptop per child , activism , computers , design , technology
288
nicholas negroponte on one laptop per child , two years on
most people don 't know that when i went to high school in this country -- i applied for university at a time when i was convinced i was going to be an artist and be a sculptor .
and i came from a very privileged background . i was very lucky .
my family was wealthy , and my father believed in one thing , and that was to give us all as much education as we wanted .
and i announced i wanted to be a sculptor in paris .
and he was a clever man . he sort of said , " well , that 's ok , but you 've done very well in your math sats . " in fact , i 'd got an 800 . and he thought i did very well -- and i did , too -- in the arts :
this was my passion .
and he said " if you go to mit , " to which i had been given early admission , " i will pay for every year you 're at mit , in graduate or undergraduate -- as much as you want -- i will pay for an equal number of years for you to live in paris . " and i thought that was the best deal in town , so i accepted it immediately .
and i decided that if i was good in art , and i was good in mathematics , i 'd study architecture , which was the blending of the two .
i went and told my headmaster that , at prep school .
and i said to him what i was doing , that i was going to go study architecture because it was art and mathematics put together .
he said to me something that just went completely over my head .
he said , " you know , i like grey suits , and i like pin-striped suits , but i don 't like grey pin-striped suits . " and i thought , " what a turkey this guy is , " and i went off to mit .
i studied architecture , then did a second degree in architecture , and then actually quickly realized that it wasn 't architecture .
that really , the mixing of art and science was computers ,
and that that really was the place to bring both , and enjoyed a career doing that .
and probably , if i were to fill out jim citrin 's scale , i 'd put 100 percent on the side of the equation where you spend time making it possible for others to be creative .
and after doing this for a long time , and the media lab passing the baton on , i thought , " well , maybe it 's time for me to do a project . something that would be important , but also something that would take advantage of all of these privileges that one had . " and in the case of the media lab , knowing a lot of people ,
knowing people who were either executives or wealthy , and also not having , in my own case , a career to worry about anymore .
my career , i mean , i 'd done my career .
didn 't have to worry about earning money . didn 't have to worry about what people thought about me .
and i said , " boy , let 's really do something that takes advantage of all these features , " and thought that if we could address education , by leveraging the children , and bringing to the world the access of the computers , that that was really the thing we should do .
never shown this picture before , and probably going to be sued for it . it 's taken at three o 'clock in the morning , without the permission of the company .
it 's about two weeks old . there they are , folks .
if you look at the picture , you 'll see they 're stacked up .
those are conveyor belts that go around .
this is one of the conveyor belts with the thing going by , but then you 'll see the ones up above .
what happens is , they burn into flash memory the software , and then test them for a few hours .
but you 've got to have the thing moving on the assembly line , because it 's constant .
so they go around in this loop , which is why you see them up there .
so this was great for us because it was a real turning point . but it goes back .
this picture was taken in 1982 , just before the ibm pc was even announced .
seymour papert and i were bringing computers to schools
and developing nations at a time when it was way ahead of itself .
but one thing we learned was that these kids can absolutely jump into it just the same way as our kids do here .
and when people tell me , " who 's going to teach the teachers to teach the kids ? " i say to myself , " what planet do you come from ? " okay , there 's not a person in this room -- i don 't care how techie you are -- there 's not a person in this room that doesn 't give their laptop or cell phone to a kid to help them debug it . ok ?
we all need help , even those of us who are very seasoned .
this picture of seymour -- 25 years ago . seymour made a very simple observation in 1968 , and then basically presented it in 1970 -- april 11 to be precise -- called " teaching children thinking . " what he observed was that kids who write computer programs understand things differently , and when they debug the programs , they come the closest to learning about learning .
that was very important , and in some sense , we 've lost that .
kids don 't program enough and boy , if there 's anything i hope this brings back , it 's programming to kids .
it 's really important . using applications is ok , but programming is absolutely fundamental .
this is being launched with three languages in it : squeak , logo , and a third , that i 've never even seen before .
the point being , this is going to be very , very intensive on the programming side .
this photograph is very important because it 's much later .
this is in the early 2000s . my son , dimitri -- who 's here , many of you know dimitri -- went to cambodia , set up this school that we had built , just as the school connected it to the internet .
and these kids had their laptops . but it was really what spirited this , plus the influence of joe and others . we started one laptop per child .
this is the same village in cambodia , just a couple of months ago .
these kids are real pros . there were just 7,000 machines out there being tested by kids . being a nonprofit is absolutely fundamental .
everybody advised me not to be a nonprofit , but they were all wrong .
and the reason being a nonprofit is important is actually twofold .
there are many reasons , but the two that merit the little bit of time is : one , the clarity of purpose is there . the moral purpose is clear .
i can see any head of state , any executive i want , at any time , because i 'm not selling laptops . ok ? i have no shareholders .
whether we sell , it doesn 't make any difference whatsoever . the clarity of purpose is absolutely critical . and the second is very counterintuitive -- you can get the best people in the world .
if you look at our professional services , including search firms , including communications , including legal services , including banking , they 're all pro bono . and it 's not to save money .
we 've got money in the bank . it 's because you get the best people .
you get the people who are doing it because they believe in the mission , and they 're the best people .
we couldn 't afford to hire a cfo . we put out a job description for a cfo at zero salary , and we had a queue of people .
it allows you to team up with people . the u.n. ' s not going to be our partner if we 're profit making . so announcing this with kofi annan was very important , and the u.n. allowed us to basically reach all the countries . and this was the machine we were showing before i met yves behar .
and while this machine in some sense is silly , in retrospect , it actually served a very important purpose .
that pencil-yellow crank was remembered by everybody .
everybody remembered the pencil-yellow crank . it 's different .
it was getting its power in a different way . it 's kind of childlike .
even though this wasn 't the direction we went because the crank -- it really is stupid to have it on board , by the way .
in spite of what some people in the press don 't get it , didn 't understand it , we didn 't take it off because we didn 't want to do -- having it on the laptop itself is really not what you want .
you want a separate thing , like the ac adaptor .
i didn 't bring one with me , but they really work much better off-board .
and then , i could tell you lots about the laptop , but i decided on just four things .
just keep in mind -- because there are other people , including bill gates , who said , " gee , you 've got a real computer . " that computer is unlike anything you 've had , and does things -- there are four of them -- that you don 't come close to . and it 's very important to be low power , and i hope that 's picked up more by the industry .
that the reason that you want to be below two watts is that 's roughly what you can generate with your upper body .
dual-mode display -- that sunlight display 's fantastic .
we were using it at lunch today in the sunlight , and the more sunlight the better .
and that was really critical . the mesh network , it 'll become commonplace .
and of course , " rugged " goes without saying .
and the reason i think design matters isn 't because i wanted to go to art school .
and by the way , when i graduated from mit , i thought the worst and silliest thing to do would be to go to paris for six years .
so , i didn 't do that . but design matters for a number of reasons .
the most important being that it is the best way to make an inexpensive product .
most people make inexpensive products by taking cheap design , cheap labor , cheap components , and making a cheap laptop .
and , in english , the word " cheap " has a double meaning , which is really appropriate ,
because it 's cheap , in the pejorative sense , as well as inexpensive .
but if you take a different approach , and you think of very large-scale integration , very advanced materials , very advanced manufacturing -- so you 're pouring chemicals in one end , ipods are spewing out the other -- and really cool design , that 's what we wanted to do .
and i can race through these and save a lot of time because yves and i obviously didn 't compare notes .
these are his slides , and so i don 't have to talk about them .
but it was really , to us , very important as a strategy .
it wasn 't just to kind of make it cute , because somebody -- you know , good design is very important .
yves showed one of the power-generating devices .
the mesh network , the reason i -- and i won 't go into it in great detail -- but when we deliver laptops to kids in the remotest and poorest parts of the world , they 're connected . there 's not just laptops .
and so , we have to drop in satellite dishes . we put in generators .
it 's a lot of stuff that goes behind these . these can talk to each other .
if you 're in a desert , they can talk to each other about two kilometers apart .
if you 're in the jungle , it 's about 500 meters . so if a kid bicycles home , or walks a few miles , they 're going to be off the grid , so to speak .
they 're not going to be near another laptop , so you have to nail these onto a tree , and sort of , get it .
you don 't call verizon or sprint . you build your own network .
and that 's very important , the user interface .
we are launching with 18 keyboards . english is by far the minority .
latin is relatively rare , too . you just look at some of the languages .
i 'm willing to suspect some of you hadn 't even heard of them before .
is there anybody in the room , one person , unless you work with olpc , is there anybody in the room that can tell me what language the keyboard is that 's on the screen ? there 's only one hand -- so you get it .
yes , you 're right . he 's right . it 's amharic , it 's ethiopian . in ethiopia , there 's never been a keyboard .
there is no keyboard standard because there 's no market .
and this is the big difference .
again , when you 're a nonprofit , you look at children as a mission , not as a market .
so we went to ethiopia , and we helped them make a keyboard .
and this will become the standard ethiopian keyboard .
so what i want to end with is sort of what we 're doing to roll it out .
and we changed strategy completely . i decided at the beginning -- it was a pretty good thing to decide in the beginning , it 's not what we 're doing now -- is to go to six countries .
big countries , one of them is not so big , but it 's rich .
here 's the six . we went to the six , and in each case the head of state said he would do it , he 'd do a million .
in the case of qaddafi , he 'd do 1.2 million , and that they would launch it .
we thought , this is exactly the right strategy , get it out , and then the little countries could sort of piggyback on these big countries .
and so i went to each of those countries at least six times , met with the head of state probably two or three times .
in each case , got the ministers , went through a lot of the stuff .
this was a period in my life where i was traveling 330 days per year .
not something you 'd envy or want to do .
in the case of libya , it was a lot of fun meeting qaddafi in his tent .
the camel smells were unbelievable .
and it was 45 degrees c. i mean , this was not what you 'd call a cool experience . and former countries -- i say former , because none of them really came through this summer --
there was a big difference between getting a head of state to have a photo opportunity , make a press release . so we went to smaller ones . uruguay , bless their hearts .
small country , not so rich . president said he 'd do it , and guess what ?
he did do it . the tender had nothing in it that related to us , nothing specific about sunlight-readable , mesh-network , low-power , but just a vanilla laptop proposal .
and guess what ? we won it hands down .
when it was announced that they were going to do every child in uruguay , the first 100,000 , boom , went to olpc .
the next day -- the next day , not even 24 hours had passed -- in peru , the president of peru said , " we 'll do 250 . " and boom , a little domino effect .
the president of rwanda stepped in and said he would do it .
the president of ethiopia said he would do it .
and boom , boom , boom . the president of mongolia .
and so what happens is , these things start to happen with these countries --
still not enough .
add up all those countries , it didn 't quite get to thing , so we said , " let 's start a program in the united states . " so , end of august , early september , we decide to do this . we announced it near the middle , end --
just when the clinton initiative was taking place .
we thought that was a good time to announce it .
launched it on the 12 of november .
we said it would be just for a short period until the 26 . we 've extended it until the 31 .
and the " give one , get one " program is really important because it got a lot of people absolutely interested .
the first day it was just wild . and then we said , " well , let 's get people to give many . not just one , and get one , but maybe give 100 , give 1,000 . " and that 's where you come in .
and that 's where i think it 's very important . i don 't want you all to go out and buy 400 dollars worth of laptops . okay ? do it , but that 's not going to help . okay ?
if everybody in this room goes out tonight and orders one of these things for 400 dollars , whatever it is , 300 people in the room doing it -- yeah , great .
i want you do something else .
and it 's not to go out and buy 100 or 1,000 , though , i invite you to do that , and 10,000 would be even better .
tell people about it ! it 's got to become viral , ok ?
use your mailing lists . people in this room have extraordinary mailing lists .
get your friends to give one , get one .
and if each one of you sends it to 300 or 400 people , that would be fantastic .
i won 't dwell on the pricing at all .
just to say that when you do the " give one , get one , " a lot of press is a bit about , " they didn 't make it , it 's 188 dollars , it 's not 100 . " it will be 100 in two years . it will go below 100 .
we 've pledged not to add features , but to bring that price down .
but it was the countries that wanted it to go up , and we let them push it up for all sorts of reasons . so what you can do -- i 've just said it . don 't just give one , get one .
i just want to end with one last one . this one is not even the first kids got their laptops . they got them by ship , and i 'm talking now about 7,000 , 8,000 at a time went out this week .
they went to uruguay , peru , mexico .
and it 's been slow coming , and we 're only making about 5,000 a week , but we hope , we hope , sometime in next year , maybe by the middle of the year , to hit a million a month . now put that number , and a million isn 't so much . it 's not a big number .
we 're selling a billion cell phones worldwide this year .
but a million a month in laptop-land is a big number .
and the world production today , everybody combined , making laptops , is five million a month . so i 'm standing here telling you that sometime next year , we 're going to make 20 percent of the world production .
and if we do that , there are going to be a lot of lucky kids out there .
and we hope if you have eg two years from now , or whenever you have it again , i won 't have bad breath , and i will be invited back , and will have , hopefully by then , maybe 100 million out there to children .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / rodney _ brooks _ on _ robots.html
in this prophetic talk from 2003 , roboticist rodney brooks talks about how robots are going to work their way into our lives -- starting with toys and moving into household chores ... and beyond .
design , humanity , intelligence , robots , singularity , technology
355
rodney brooks says robots will invade our lives
what i want to tell you about today is how i see robots invading our lives at multiple levels , over multiple timescales .
and when i look out in the future , i can 't imagine a world , 500 years from now , where we don 't have robots everywhere . assuming -- despite all the dire predictions from many people about our future -- assuming we 're still around , i can 't imagine the world not being populated with robots .
and then the question is , well , if they 're going to be here in 500 years , are they going to be everywhere sooner than that ?
are they going to be around in 50 years ?
yeah , i think that 's pretty likely -- there 's going to be lots of robots everywhere .
and in fact i think that 's going to be a lot sooner than that .
i think we 're sort of on the cusp of robots becoming common , and i think we 're sort of around 1978 or 1980 in personal computer years , where the first few robots are starting to appear .
computers sort of came around through games and toys .
and you know , the first computer most people had in the house may have been a computer to play pong , a little microprocessor embedded , and then other games that came after that .
and we 're starting to see that same sort of thing with robots : lego mindstorms , furbies -- who here -- did anyone here have a furby ?
yeah , there 's 38 million of them sold worldwide .
they are pretty common . and they 're a little tiny robot , a simple robot with some sensors ,
a little bit of processing actuation .
on the right there is another robot doll , who you could get a couple of years ago .
and just as in the early days , when there was a lot of sort of amateur interaction over computers , you can now get various hacking kits , how-to-hack books .
and on the left there is a platform from evolution robotics , where you put a pc on , and you program this thing with a gui to wander around your house and do various stuff .
and then there 's a higher price point sort of robot toys -- the sony aibo . and on the right there , is one that the nec developed , the papero , which i don 't think they 're going to release .
but nevertheless , those sorts of things are out there .
and we 've seen , over the last two or three years , lawn-mowing robots , husqvarna on the bottom , friendly robotics on top there , an israeli company .
and then in the last 12 months or so we 've started to see a bunch of home-cleaning robots appear .
the top left one is a very nice home-cleaning robot from a company called dyson , in the u.k. except it was so expensive -- 3,500 dollars -- they didn 't release it .
but at the bottom left , you see electrolux , which is on sale .
another one from karcher .
at the bottom right is one that i built in my lab about 10 years ago , and we finally turned that into a product .
and let me just show you that .
we 're going to give this away i think , chris said , after the talk .
this is a robot that you can go out and buy , and that will clean up your floor .
and it starts off sort of just going around in ever-increasing circles .
if it hits something -- you people see that ?
now it 's doing wall-following , it 's following around my feet to clean up around me . let 's see , let 's -- oh , who stole my rice krispies ? they stole my rice krispies ! don 't worry , relax , no , relax , it 's a robot , it 's smart !
see , the three-year-old kids , they don 't worry about it .
it 's grown-ups that get really upset .
we 'll just put some crap here .
okay .
i don 't know if you see -- so , i put a bunch of rice krispies there , i put some pennies , let 's just shoot it at that , see if it cleans up .
yeah , ok . so -- we 'll leave that for later .
part of the trick was building a better cleaning mechanism , actually ; the intelligence on board was fairly simple .
and that 's true with a lot of robots .
we 've all , i think , become , sort of computational chauvinists , and think that computation is everything , but the mechanics still matter .
here 's another robot , the packbot , that we 've been building for a bunch of years .
it 's a military surveillance robot , to go in ahead of troops -- looking at caves , for instance .
but we had to make it fairly robust , much more robust than the robots we build in our labs .
on board that robot is a pc running linux .
it can withstand a 400g shock . the robot has local intelligence : it can flip itself over , can get itself into communication range , can go upstairs by itself , et cetera .
okay , so it 's doing local navigation there .
a soldier gives it a command to go upstairs , and it does .
that was not a controlled descent .
now it 's going to head off .
and the big breakthrough for these robots , really , was september 11th .
we had the robots down at the world trade center late that evening .
couldn 't do a lot in the main rubble pile , things were just too -- there was nothing left to do .
but we did go into all the surrounding buildings that had been evacuated , and searched for possible survivors in the buildings that were too dangerous to go into .
let 's run this video .
reporter : ... battlefield companions are helping to reduce the combat risks .
nick robertson has that story .
rodney brooks : can we have another one of these ?
okay , good .
so , this is a corporal who had seen a robot two weeks previously .
he 's sending robots into caves , looking at what 's going on .
the robot 's being totally autonomous .
the worst thing that 's happened in the cave so far was one of the robots fell down ten meters .
so one year ago , the us military didn 't have these robots .
now they 're on active duty in afghanistan every day .
and that 's one of the reasons they say a robot invasion is happening .
there 's a sea change happening in how -- where technology 's going .
thanks .
and over the next couple of months , we 're going to be sending robots in production down producing oil wells to get that last few years of oil out of the ground .
very hostile environments , 150  c , 10,000 psi .
autonomous robots going down , doing this sort of work .
but robots like this , they 're a little hard to program .
how , in the future , are we going to program our robots and make them easier to use ?
and i want to actually use a robot here -- a robot named chris -- stand up . yeah . okay .
come over here . now notice , he thinks robots have to be a bit stiff .
he sort of does that . but i 'm going to -- chris anderson : i 'm just british . rb : oh .
i 'm going to show this robot a task . it 's a very complex task .
now notice , he nodded there , he was giving me some indication he was understanding the flow of communication .
and if i 'd said something completely bizarre he would have looked askance at me , and regulated the conversation .
so now i brought this up in front of him .
i 'd looked at his eyes , and i saw his eyes looked at this bottle top .
and i 'm doing this task here , and he 's checking up .
his eyes are going back and forth up to me , to see what i 'm looking at -- so we 've got shared attention .
and so i do this task , and he looks , and he looks to me to see what 's happening next . and now i 'll give him the bottle , and we 'll see if he can do the task . can you do that ?
okay . he 's pretty good . yeah . good , good , good .
i didn 't show you how to do that .
now see if you can put it back together .
and he thinks a robot has to be really slow .
good robot , that 's good .
so we saw a bunch of things there .
we saw when we 're interacting , we 're trying to show someone how to do something , we direct their visual attention .
the other thing communicates their internal state to us , whether he 's understanding or not , regulates a social interaction .
there was shared attention looking at the same sort of thing , and recognizing socially communicated reinforcement at the end .
and we 've been trying to put that into our lab robots because we think this is how you 're going to want to interact with robots in the future .
i just want to show you one technical diagram here .
the most important thing for building a robot that you can interact with socially is its visual attention system .
because what it pays attention to is what it 's seeing and interacting with , and what you 're understanding what it 's doing .
so in the videos i 'm about to show you , you 're going to see a visual attention system on a robot which has -- it looks for skin tone in hsv space , so it works across all human colorings .
it looks for highly saturated colors , from toys .
and it looks for things that move around .
and it weights those together into an attention window , and it looks for the highest-scoring place -- the stuff where the most interesting stuff is happening --
and that is what its eyes then segue to .
and it looks right at that .
at the same time , some top-down sort of stuff : might decide that it 's lonely and look for skin tone , or might decide that it 's bored and look for a toy to play with .
and so these weights change .
and over here on the right , this is what we call the steven spielberg memorial module .
did people see the movie " ai " ?
rb : yeah , it was really bad , but -- remember , especially when haley joel osment , the little robot , looked at the blue fairy for 2,000 years without taking his eyes off it ?
well , this gets rid of that , because this is a habituation gaussian that gets negative , and more and more intense as it looks at one thing .
and it gets bored , so it will then look away at something else .
so , once you 've got that -- and here 's a robot , here 's kismet , looking around for a toy . you can tell what it 's looking at .
you can estimate its gaze direction from those eyeballs covering its camera , and you can tell when it 's actually seeing the toy .
and it 's got a little bit of an emotional response here .
but it 's still going to pay attention if something more significant comes into its field of view -- such as cynthia breazeal , the builder of this robot , from the right .
it sees her , pays attention to her .
kismet has an underlying , three-dimensional emotional space , a vector space , of where it is emotionally .
and at different places in that space , it expresses -- can we have the volume on here ?
can you hear that now , out there ?
kismet : do you really think so ? do you really think so ?
do you really think so ?
rb : so it 's expressing its emotion through its face and the prosody in its voice .
and when i was dealing with my robot over here , chris , the robot , was measuring the prosody in my voice ,
and so we have the robot measure prosody for four basic messages that mothers give their children pre-linguistically .
here we 've got naive subjects praising the robot : voice : nice robot .
you 're such a cute little robot .
rb : and the robot 's reacting appropriately .
voice : ... very good , kismet .
voice : look at my smile .
rb : it smiles . she imitates the smile . this happens a lot .
these are naive subjects .
here we asked them to get the robot 's attention and indicate when they have the robot 's attention .
voice : hey , kismet , ah , there it is .
rb : so she realizes she has the robot 's attention .
voice : kismet , do you like the toy ? oh .
rb : now , here they 're asked to prohibit the robot , and this first woman really pushes the robot into an emotional corner .
voice : no . no . you 're not to do that . no .
not appropriate . no . no .
rb : i 'm going to leave it at that .
we put that together . then we put in turn taking .
when we talk to someone , we talk .
then we sort of raise our eyebrows , move our eyes , give the other person the idea it 's their turn to talk .
and then they talk , and then we pass the baton back and forth between each other .
so we put this in the robot .
we got a bunch of naive subjects in , we didn 't tell them anything about the robot , sat them down in front of the robot and said , talk to the robot .
now what they didn 't know was , the robot wasn 't understanding a word they said , and that the robot wasn 't speaking english .
it was just saying random english phonemes .
and i want you to watch carefully , at the beginning of this , where this person , ritchie , who happened to talk to the robot for 25 minutes -- -- says , " i want to show you something .
i want to show you my watch . "
and he brings the watch center , into the robot 's field of vision , points to it , gives it a motion cue , and the robot looks at the watch quite successfully .
we don 't know whether he understood or not that the robot -- notice the turn-taking .
ritchie : ok , i want to show you something . ok , this is a watch that my girlfriend gave me .
robot : oh , cool .
ritchie : yeah , look , it 's got a little blue light in it too . i almost lost it this week .
rb : so it 's making eye contact with him , following his eyes .
ritchie : can you do the same thing ? robot : yeah , sure .
rb : and they successfully have that sort of communication .
and here 's another aspect of the sorts of things that chris and i were doing .
this is another robot , cog .
they first make eye contact , and then , when christie looks over at this toy , the robot estimates her gaze direction and looks at the same thing that she 's looking at .
so we 're going to see more and more of this sort of robot over the next few years in labs .
but then the big questions , two big questions that people ask me are : if we make these robots more and more human-like , will we accept them , will we -- will they need rights eventually ?
and the other question people ask me is , will they want to take over ?
and on the first -- you know , this has been a very hollywood theme with lots of movies . you probably recognize these characters here -- where in each of these cases , the robots want more respect .
well , do you ever need to give robots respect ?
they 're just machines , after all .
but i think , you know , we have to accept that we are just machines .
after all , that 's certainly what modern molecular biology says about us .
you don 't see a description of how , you know , molecule a , you know , comes up and docks with this other molecule .
and it 's moving forward , you know , propelled by various charges , and then the soul steps in and tweaks those molecules so that they connect .
it 's all mechanistic . we are mechanism .
if we are machines , then in principle at least , we should be able to build machines out of other stuff , which are just as alive as we are .
but i think for us to admit that , we have to give up on our special-ness , in a certain way .
and we 've had the retreat from special-ness under the barrage of science and technology many times over the last few hundred years , at least .
500 years ago we had to give up the idea that we are the center of the universe when the earth started to go around the sun ; 150 years ago , with darwin , we had to give up the idea we were different from animals .
and to imagine -- you know , it 's always hard for us .
recently we 've been battered with the idea that maybe we didn 't even have our own creation event , here on earth , which people didn 't like much . and then the human genome said , maybe we only have 35,000 genes . and that was really -- people didn 't like that , we 've got more genes than that .
we don 't like to give up our special-ness , so , you know , having the idea that robots could really have emotions , or that robots could be living creatures -- i think is going to be hard for us to accept .
but we 're going to come to accept it over the next 50 years or so .
and the second question is , will the machines want to take over ?
and here the standard scenario is that we create these things , they grow , we nurture them , they learn a lot from us , and then they start to decide that we 're pretty boring , slow .
they want to take over from us .
and for those of you that have teenagers , you know what that 's like .
but hollywood extends it to the robots .
and the question is , you know , will someone accidentally build a robot that takes over from us ?
and that 's sort of like this lone guy in the backyard , you know -- " i accidentally built a 747 . "
i don 't think that 's going to happen .
and i don 't think -- -- i don 't think we 're going to deliberately build robots that we 're uncomfortable with .
we 'll -- you know , they 're not going to have a super bad robot .
before that has to come to be a mildly bad robot , and before that a not so bad robot .
and we 're just not going to let it go that way .
so , i think i 'm going to leave it at that : the robots are coming , we don 't have too much to worry about , it 's going to be a lot of fun , and i hope you all enjoy the journey over the next 50 years .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / richard _ seymour _ how _ beauty _ feels.html
a story , a work of art , a face , a designed object -- how do we tell that something is beautiful ? and why does it matter so much to us ? designer richard seymour explores our response to beauty and the surprising power of objects that exhibit it .
arts , beauty , design , happiness
1243
richard seymour : how beauty feels
when i was little -- and by the way , i was little once -- my father told me a story about an 18th century watchmaker .
and what this guy had done : he used to produce these fabulously beautiful watches .
and one day , one of his customers came into his workshop and asked him to clean the watch that he 'd bought .
and the guy took it apart , and one of the things he pulled out was one of the balance wheels .
and as he did so , his customer noticed that on the back side of the balance wheel was an engraving ,
were words .
and he said to the guy , " why have you put stuff on the back that no one will ever see ? "
and the watchmaker turned around and said , " god can see it . "
now i 'm not in the least bit religious , neither was my father , but at that point , i noticed something happening here .
i felt something in this plexus of blood vessels and nerves , and there must be some muscles in there as well somewhere , i guess .
but i felt something .
and it was a physiological response .
and from that point on , from my age at the time , i began to think of things in a different way .
and as i took on my career as a designer , i began to ask myself the simple question : do we actually think beauty , or do we feel it ?
now you probably know the answer to this already .
you probably think , well , i don 't know which one you think it is , but i think it 's about feeling beauty .
and so i then moved on into my design career and began to find some exciting things .
one of the most early work was done in automotive design -- some very exciting work was done there .
and during a lot of this work , we found something , or i found something , that really fascinated me , and maybe you can remember it .
do you remember when lights used to just go on and off , click click , when you closed the door in a car ?
and then somebody , i think it was bmw , introduced a light that went out slowly .
remember that ?
i remember it clearly . do you remember the first time you were in a car and it did that ?
i remember sitting there thinking , this is fantastic .
in fact , i 've never found anybody that doesn 't like the light that goes out slowly .
i thought , well what the hell 's that about ?
so i started to ask myself questions about it .
and the first was , i 'd ask other people : " do you like it ? " " yes . "
" why ? " and they 'd say , " oh , it feels so natural , "
or , " it 's nice . "
i thought , well that 's not good enough .
can we cut down a little bit further , because , as a designer , i need the vocabulary , i need the keyboard , of how this actually works .
and so i did some experiments .
and i suddenly realized that there was something that did exactly that -- light to dark in six seconds -- exactly that .
do you know what it is ? anyone ?
you see , using this bit , the thinky bit , the slow bit of the brain -- using that .
and this isn 't a think , it 's a feel .
and would you do me a favor ?
for the next 14 minutes or whatever it is , will you feel stuff ?
i don 't need you to think so much as i want you to feel it .
i felt a sense of relaxation tempered with anticipation .
and that thing that i found was the cinema or the theater .
it 's actually just happened here -- light to dark in six seconds .
and when that happens , are you sitting there going , " no , the movie 's about to start , " or are you going , " that 's fantastic . i 'm looking forward to it .
i get a sense of anticipation " ?
now i 'm not a neuroscientist .
i don 't know even if there is something called a conditioned reflex .
but it might be .
because the people i speak to in the northern hemisphere that used to go in the cinema get this .
and some of the people i speak to that have never seen a movie or been to the theater don 't get it in the same way .
everybody likes it , but some like it more than others .
so this leads me to think of this in a different way .
we 're not feeling it . we 're thinking beauty is in the limbic system -- if that 's not an outmoded idea .
these are the bits , the pleasure centers , and maybe what i 'm seeing and sensing and feeling is bypassing my thinking .
the wiring from your sensory apparatus to those bits is shorter than the bits that have to pass through the thinky bit , the cortex .
they arrive first .
so how do we make that actually work ?
and how much of that reactive side of it is due to what we already know , or what we 're going to learn , about something ?
this is one of the most beautiful things i know .
it 's a plastic bag .
and when i looked at it first , i thought , no , there 's no beauty in that .
then i found out , post exposure , that this plastic bag if i put it into a filthy puddle or a stream filled with coliforms and all sorts of disgusting stuff , that that filthy water will migrate through the wall of the bag by osmosis and end up inside it as pure , potable drinking water .
and all of a sudden , this plastic bag was extremely beautiful to me .
now i 'm going to ask you again to switch on the emotional bit .
would you mind taking the brain out , and i just want you to feel something .
look at that . what are you feeling about it ?
is it beautiful ? is it exciting ?
i 'm watching your faces very carefully .
there 's some rather bored-looking gentlemen and some slightly engaged-looking ladies who are picking up something off that .
maybe there 's an innocence to it .
now i 'm going to tell you what it is . are you ready ?
this is the last act on this earth of a little girl called heidi , five years old , before she died of cancer to the spine .
it 's the last thing she did , the last physical act .
look at that picture .
look at the innocence . look at the beauty in it .
is it beautiful now ?
stop . stop . how do you feel ?
where are you feeling this ?
i 'm feeling it here . i feel it here .
and i 'm watching your faces , because your faces are telling me something .
the lady over there is actually crying , by the way .
but what are you doing ?
i watch what people do .
i watch faces .
i watch reactions .
because i have to know how people react to things .
and one of the most common faces on something faced with beauty , something stupefyingly delicious , is what i call the omg .
and by the way , there 's no pleasure in that face .
it 's not a " this is wonderful ! "
the eyebrows are doing this , the eyes are defocused , and the mouth is hanging open .
that 's not the expression of joy .
there 's something else in that .
there 's something weird happening .
so pleasure seems to be tempered by a whole series of different things coming in .
poignancy is a word i love as a designer .
it means something triggering a big emotional response , often quite a sad emotional response , but it 's part of what we do .
it isn 't just about nice .
and this is the dilemma , this is the paradox , of beauty .
sensorily , we 're taking in all sorts of things -- mixtures of things that are good , bad , exciting , frightening -- to come up with that sensorial exposure , that sensation of what 's going on .
pathos appears obviously as part of what you just saw in that little girl 's drawing .
and also triumph , this sense of transcendence , this " i never knew that . ah , this is something new . "
and that 's packed in there as well .
and as we assemble these tools , from a design point of view , i get terribly excited about it , because these are things , as we 've already said , they 're arriving at the brain , it would seem , before cognition , before we can manipulate them -- electrochemical party tricks .
now what i 'm also interested in is : is it possible to separate intrinsic and extrinsic beauty ?
by that , i mean intrinsically beautiful things , just something that 's exquisitely beautiful , that 's universally beautiful .
very hard to find . maybe you 've got some examples of it .
very hard to find something that , to everybody , is a very beautiful thing , without a certain amount of information packed in there before .
so a lot of it tends to be extrinsic .
it 's mediated by information before the comprehension .
or the information 's added on at the back , like that little girl 's drawing that i showed you .
now when talking about beauty you can 't get away from the fact that a lot experiments have been done in this way with faces and what have you .
and one of the most tedious ones , i think , was saying that beauty was about symmetry .
well it obviously isn 't .
this is a more interesting one where half faces were shown to some people , and then to add them into a list of most beautiful to least beautiful and then exposing a full face .
and they found that it was almost exact coincidence .
so it wasn 't about symmetry .
in fact , this lady has a particularly asymmetrical face , of which both sides are beautiful .
but they 're both different .
and as a designer , i can 't help meddling with this , so i pulled it to bits and sort of did stuff like this , and tried to understand what the individual elements were , but feeling it as i go .
now i can feel a sensation of delight and beauty if i look at that eye .
i 'm not getting it off the eyebrow .
and the earhole isn 't doing it to me at all .
so i don 't know how much this is helping me , but it 's helping to guide me to the places where the signals are coming off .
and as i say , i 'm not a neuroscientist , but to understand how i can start to assemble things that will very quickly bypass this thinking part and get me to the enjoyable precognitive elements .
anais nin and the talmud have told us time and time again that we see things not as they are , but as we are .
so i 'm going to shamelessly expose something to you , which is beautiful to me .
and this is the f1 mv agusta .
ahhhh .
it is really -- i mean , i can 't express to you how exquisite this object is .
but i also know why it 's exquisite to me , because it 's a palimpsest of things .
it 's masses and masses of layers .
this is just the bit that protrudes into our physical dimension .
it 's something much bigger .
layer after layer of legend , sport , details that resonate .
i mean , if i just go through some of them now -- i know about laminar flow when it comes to air-piercing objects , and that does it consummately well , you can see it can .
so that 's getting me excited .
and i feel that here .
this bit , the big secret of automotive design -- reflection management .
it 's not about the shapes , it 's how the shapes reflect light .
now that thing , light flickers across it as you move , so it becomes a kinetic object , even though it 's standing still -- managed by how brilliantly that 's done on the reflection .
this little relief on the footplate , by the way , to a rider means there 's something going on underneath it -- in this case , a drive chain running at 300 miles and hour probably , taking the power from the engine .
i 'm getting terribly excited as my mind and my eyes flick across these things .
titanium lacquer on this .
i can 't tell you how wonderful this is . that 's how you stop the nuts coming off at high speed on the wheel .
i 'm really getting into this now .
and of course , a racing bike doesn 't have a prop stand , but this one , because it 's a road bike , it all goes away and it folds into this little gap .
so it disappears .
and then i can 't tell you how hard it is to do that radiator , which is curved . why would you do that ?
because i know we need to bring the wheel farther into the aerodynamics .
so it 's more expensive , but it 's wonderful .
and to cap it all , brand royalty -- agusta , count agusta , from the great histories of this stuff .
the bit that you can 't see is the genius that created this .
massimo tamburini .
they call him " the plumber " in italy , as well as " maestro , " because he actually is engineer and craftsman and sculptor at the same time .
there 's so little compromise on this , you can 't see it .
but unfortunately , the likes of me and people that are like me have to deal with compromise all the time with beauty .
we have to deal with it .
so i have to work with a supply chain , and i 've got to work with the technologies , and i 've got to work with everything else all the time , and so compromises start to fit into it .
and so look at her .
i 've had to make a bit of a compromise there .
i 've had to move that part across , but only a millimeter .
no one 's noticed , have they yet ?
did you see what i did ?
i moved three things by a millimeter .
pretty ? yes .
beautiful ? maybe lesser .
but then , of course , the consumer says that doesn 't really matter .
so that 's okay , isn 't it ?
another millimeter ?
no one 's going to notice those split lines and changes .
it 's that easy to lose beauty ,
because beauty 's incredibly difficult to do .
and only a few people can do it .
and a focus group cannot do it .
and a team rarely can do it .
it takes a central cortex , if you like , to be able to orchestrate all those elements at the same time .
this is a beautiful water bottle -- some of you know of it -- done by ross lovegrove , the designer .
this is pretty close to intrinsic beauty . this one , as long as you know what water is like then you can experience this .
it 's lovely because it is an embodiment of something refreshing and delicious .
i might like it more than you like it , because i know how bloody hard it is to do it .
it 's stupefyingly difficult to make something that refracts light like that , that comes out of the tool correctly , that goes down the line without falling over .
underneath this , like the story of the swan , is a million things very difficult to do .
so all hail to that .
it 's a fantastic example , a simple object .
and the one i showed you before was , of course , a massively complex one .
and they 're working in beauty in slightly different ways because of it .
you all , i guess , like me , enjoy watching a ballet dancer dance .
and part of the joy of it is , you know the difficulty .
you also may be taking into account the fact that it 's incredibly painful .
anybody seen a ballet dancer 's toes when they come out of the points ?
while she 's doing these graceful arabesques and plies and what have you , something horrible 's going on down here .
the comprehension of it leads us to a greater and heightened sense of the beauty of what 's actually going on .
now i 'm using microseconds wrongly here , so please ignore me .
but what i have to do now , feeling again , what i 've got to do is to be able to supply enough of these enzymes , of these triggers into something early on in the process , that you pick it up , not through your thinking , but through your feeling .
so we 're going to have a little experiment .
right , are you ready ? i 'm going to show you something for a very , very brief moment .
are you ready ? okay .
did you think that was a bicycle when i showed it to you at the first flash ?
it 's not .
tell me something , did you think it was quick when you first saw it ? yes you did .
did you think it was modern ? yes you did .
that blip , that information , shot into you before that .
and because your brain starter motor began there , now it 's got to deal with it .
and the great thing is , this motorcycle has been styled this way specifically to engender a sense that it 's green technology and it 's good for you and it 's light and it 's all part of the future .
so is that wrong ?
well in this case it isn 't , because it 's a very , very ecologically-sound piece of technology .
but you 're a slave of that first flash .
we are slaves to the first few fractions of a second -- and that 's where much of my work has to win or lose , on a shelf in a shop .
it wins or loses at that point .
you may see 50 , 100 , 200 things on a shelf as you walk down it , but i have to work within that domain , to ensure that it gets you there first .
and finally , the layer that i love , of knowledge .
some of you , i 'm sure , will be familiar with this .
what 's incredible about this , and the way i love to come back to it , is this is taking something that you hate or bores you , folding clothes , and if you can actually do this -- who can actually do this ? anybody try to do this ?
yeah ?
it 's fantastic , isn 't it ?
look at that . do you want to see it again ?
no time . it says i have two minutes left , so we can 't do this .
but just go to the web , youtube , pull it down , " folding t-shirt . " that 's how underpaid younger-aged people have to fold your t-shirt .
you didn 't maybe know it .
but how do you feel about it ?
it feels fantastic when you do it , you look forward to doing it , and when you tell somebody else about it -- like you probably have -- you look really smart .
the knowledge bubble that sits around the outside , the stuff that costs nothing ,
because that knowledge is free -- bundle that together and where do we come out ?
form follows function ?
only sometimes . only sometimes . form is function . form is function .
it informs , it tells us , it supplies us answers before we 've even thought about it .
and so i 've stopped using words like " form , " and i 've stopped using words like " function " as a designer .
what i try to pursue now is the emotional functionality of things . because if i can get that right , i can make them wonderful , and i can make them repeatedly wonderful .
and you know what those products and services are , because you own some of them .
they 're the things that you 'd snatch if the house was on fire .
forming the emotional bond between this thing and you is an electrochemical party trick that happens before you even think about it .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / alain _ de _ botton _ atheism _ 2 _ 0.html
what aspects of religion should atheists adopt ? alain de botton suggests a " religion for atheists " -- call it atheism 2.0 -- that incorporates religious forms and traditions to satisfy our human need for connection , ritual and transcendence .
atheism , culture , philosophy , religion
1327
alain de botton : atheism 2.0
one of the most common ways of dividing the world is into those who believe and those who don 't -- into the religious and the atheists .
and for the last decade or so , it 's been quite clear what being an atheist means .
there have been some very vocal atheists who 've pointed out , not just that religion is wrong , but that it 's ridiculous .
these people , many of whom have lived in north oxford , have argued -- they 've argued that believing in god is akin to believing in fairies and essentially that the whole thing is a childish game .
now i think it 's too easy .
i think it 's too easy to dismiss the whole of religion that way .
and it 's as easy as shooting fish in a barrel .
and what i 'd like to inaugurate today is a new way of being an atheist -- if you like , a new version of atheism we could call atheism 2.0 .
now what is atheism 2.0 ?
well it starts from a very basic premise : of course , there 's no god .
of course , there are no deities or supernatural spirits or angels , etc .
now let 's move on ; that 's not the end of the story , that 's the very , very beginning .
i 'm interested in the kind of constituency that thinks something along these lines : that thinks , " i can 't believe in any of this stuff .
i can 't believe in the doctrines .
i don 't think these doctrines are right .
but , " a very important but , " i love christmas carols .
i really like the art of mantegna .
i really like looking at old churches .
i really like turning the pages of the old testament . " whatever it may be , you know the kind of thing i 'm talking about -- people who are attracted to the ritualistic side , the moralistic , communal side of religion , but can 't bear the doctrine .
until now , these people have faced a rather unpleasant choice .
it 's almost as though either you accept the doctrine and then you can have all the nice stuff , or you reject the doctrine and you 're living in some kind of spiritual wasteland under the guidance of cnn and walmart .
so that 's a sort of tough choice .
i don 't think we have to make that choice .
i think there is an alternative .
i think there are ways -- and i 'm being both very respectful and completely impious -- of stealing from religions .
if you don 't believe in a religion , there 's nothing wrong with picking and mixing , with taking out the best sides of religion .
and for me , atheism 2.0 is about both , as i say , a respectful and an impious way of going through religions and saying , " what here could we use ? " the secular world is full of holes .
we have secularized badly , i would argue .
and a thorough study of religion could give us all sorts of insights into areas of life that are not going too well .
and i 'd like to run through a few of these today .
i 'd like to kick off by looking at education .
now education is a field the secular world really believes in .
when we think about how we 're going to make the world a better place , we think education ; that 's where we put a lot of money .
education is going to give us , not only commercial skills , industrial skills , it 's also going to make us better people .
you know the kind of thing a commencement address is , and graduation ceremonies , those lyrical claims that education , the process of education -- particularly higher education -- will make us into nobler and better human beings .
that 's a lovely idea .
interesting where it came from .
in the early 19th century , church attendance in western europe started sliding down very , very sharply , and people panicked .
they asked themselves the following question . they said , where are people going to find the morality , where are they going to find guidance , and where are they going to find sources of consolation ?
and influential voices came up with one answer .
they said culture .
it 's to culture that we should look for guidance , for consolation , for morality .
let 's look to the plays of shakespeare , the dialogues of plato , the novels of jane austen .
in there , we 'll find a lot of the truths that we might previously have found in the gospel of saint john .
now i think that 's a very beautiful idea and a very true idea .
they wanted to replace scripture with culture .
and that 's a very plausible idea .
it 's also an idea that we have forgotten .
if you went to a top university -- let 's say you went to harvard or oxford or cambridge -- and you said , " i 've come here because i 'm in search of morality , guidance and consolation ; i want to know how to live , " they would show you the way to the insane asylum .
this is simply not what our grandest and best institutes of higher learning are in the business of .
why ? they don 't think we need it .
they don 't think we are in an urgent need of assistance .
they see us as adults , rational adults .
what we need is information .
we need data , we don 't need help .
now religions start from a very different place indeed .
all religions , all major religions , at various points call us children .
and like children , they believe that we are in severe need of assistance .
we 're only just holding it together .
perhaps this is just me , maybe you .
but anyway , we 're only just holding it together .
and we need help . of course , we need help .
and so we need guidance and we need didactic learning .
you know , in the 18th century in the u.k. , the greatest preacher , greatest religious preacher , was a man called john wesley , who went up and down this country delivering sermons , advising people how they could live .
he delivered sermons on the duties of parents to their children and children to their parents , the duties of the rich to the poor and the poor to the rich .
he was trying to tell people how they should live through the medium of sermons , the classic medium of delivery of religions .
now we 've given up with the idea of sermons .
if you said to a modern liberal individualist , " hey , how about a sermon ? " they 'd go , " no , no . i don 't need one of those .
i 'm an independent , individual person . " what 's the difference between a sermon and our modern , secular mode of delivery , the lecture ?
well a sermon wants to change your life and a lecture wants to give you a bit of information .
and i think we need to get back to that sermon tradition .
the tradition of sermonizing is hugely valuable , because we are in need of guidance , morality and consolation -- and religions know that .
another point about education : we tend to believe in the modern secular world that if you tell someone something once , they 'll remember it .
sit them in a classroom , tell them about plato at the age of 20 , send them out for a career in management consultancy for 40 years , and that lesson will stick with them .
religions go , " nonsense .
you need to keep repeating the lesson 10 times a day .
so get on your knees and repeat it . " that 's what all religions tell us : " get on you knees and repeat it 10 or 20 or 15 times a day . " otherwise our minds are like sieves .
so religions are cultures of repetition .
they circle the great truths again and again and again .
we associate repetition with boredom .
" give us the new , " we 're always saying .
" the new is better than the old . "
if i said to you , " okay , we 're not going to have new ted .
we 're just going to run through all the old ones and watch them five times because they 're so true .
we 're going to watch elizabeth gilbert five times because what she says is so clever , " you 'd feel cheated .
not so if you 're adopting a religious mindset .
the other things that religions do is to arrange time .
all the major religions give us calendars .
what is a calendar ?
a calendar is a way of making sure that across the year you will bump into certain very important ideas .
in the catholic chronology , catholic calendar , at the end of march you will think about st. jerome and his qualities of humility and goodness and his generosity to the poor .
you won 't do that by accident ; you will do that because you are guided to do that .
now we don 't think that way .
in the secular world we think , " if an idea is important , i 'll bump into it .
i 'll just come across it . " nonsense , says the religious world view .
religious view says we need calendars , we need to structure time , we need to synchronize encounters .
this comes across also in the way in which religions set up rituals around important feelings .
take the moon . it 's really important to look at the moon .
you know , when you look at the moon , you think , " i 'm really small . what are my problems ? " it sets things into perspective , etc . , etc .
we should all look at the moon a bit more often . we don 't .
why don 't we ? well there 's nothing to tell us , " look at the moon . " but if you 're a zen buddhist in the middle of september , you will be ordered out of your home , made to stand on a canonical platform and made to celebrate the festival of tsukimi , where you will be given poems to read in honor of the moon and the passage of time and the frailty of life that it should remind us of .
you 'll be handed rice cakes .
and the moon and the reflection on the moon will have a secure place in your heart .
that 's very good .
the other thing that religions are really aware of is : speak well -- i 'm not doing a very good job of this here -- but oratory , oratory is absolutely key to religions .
in the secular world , you can come through the university system and be a lousy speaker and still have a great career .
but the religious world doesn 't think that way .
what you 're saying needs to be backed up by a really convincing way of saying it .
so if you go to an african american pentecostalist church in the american south and you listen to how they talk , my goodness , they talk well .
after every convincing point , people will go , " amen , amen , amen . " at the end of a really rousing paragraph , they 'll all stand up , and they 'll go , " thank you jesus , thank you christ , thank you savior . " if we were doing it like they do it -- let 's not do it , but if we were to do it -- i would tell you something like , " culture should replace scripture . " and you would go , " amen , amen , amen . " and at the end of my talk , you would all stand up and you would go , " thank you plato , thank you shakespeare , thank you jane austen . " and we 'd know that we had a real rhythm going .
all right , all right . we 're getting there . we 're getting there .
the other thing that religions know is we 're not just brains , we are also bodies .
and when they teach us a lesson , they do it via the body .
so for example , take the jewish idea of forgiveness .
jews are very interested in forgiveness and how we should start anew and start afresh .
they don 't just deliver us sermons on this .
they don 't just give us books or words about this .
they tell us to have a bath .
so in orthodox jewish communities , every friday you go to a mikveh .
you immerse yourself in the water , and a physical action backs up a philosophical idea .
we don 't tend to do that .
our ideas are in one area and our behavior with our bodies is in another .
religions are fascinating in the way they try and combine the two .
let 's look at art now .
now art is something that in the secular world , we think very highly of . we think art is really , really important .
a lot of our surplus wealth goes to museums , etc .
we sometimes hear it said that museums are our new cathedrals , or our new churches .
you 've heard that saying .
now i think that the potential is there ,
but we 've completely let ourselves down .
and the reason we 've let ourselves down is that we 're not properly studying how religions handle art .
the two really bad ideas that are hovering in the modern world that inhibit our capacity to draw strength from art : the first idea is that art should be for art 's sake -- a ridiculous idea -- an idea that art should live in a hermetic bubble and should not try to do anything with this troubled world .
i couldn 't disagree more .
the other thing that we believe is that art shouldn 't explain itself , that artists shouldn 't say what they 're up to , because if they said it , it might destroy the spell and we might find it too easy .
that 's why a very common feeling when you 're in a museum -- let 's admit it -- is , " i don 't know what this is about . " but if we 're serious people , we don 't admit to that .
but that feeling of puzzlement is structural to contemporary art .
now religions have a much saner attitude to art .
they have no trouble telling us what art is about .
art is about two things in all the major faiths .
firstly , it 's trying to remind you of what there is to love .
and secondly , it 's trying to remind you of what there is to fear and to hate .
and that 's what art is .
art is a visceral encounter with the most important ideas of your faith .
so as you walk around a church , or a mosque or a cathedral , what you 're trying to imbibe , what you 're imbibing is , through your eyes , through your senses , truths that have otherwise come to you through your mind .
essentially it 's propaganda .
rembrandt is a propagandist in the christian view .
now the word " propaganda " sets off alarm bells .
we think of hitler , we think of stalin . don 't , necessarily .
propaganda is a manner of being didactic in honor of something .
and if that thing is good , there 's no problem with it at all .
my view is that museums should take a leaf out of the book of religions .
and they should make sure that when you walk into a museum -- if i was a museum curator , i would make a room for love , a room for generosity .
all works of art are talking to us about things .
and if we were able to arrange spaces where we could come across works where we would be told , use these works of art to cement these ideas in your mind , we would get a lot more out of art .
art would pick up the duty that it used to have and that we 've neglected because of certain mis-founded ideas .
art should be one of the tools by which we improve our society .
art should be didactic .
let 's think of something else .
the people in the modern world , in the secular world , who are interested in matters of the spirit , in matters of the mind , in higher soul-like concerns , tend to be isolated individuals .
they 're poets , they 're philosophers , they 're photographers , they 're filmmakers .
and they tend to be on their own .
they 're our cottage industries . they are vulnerable , single people .
and they get depressed and they get sad on their own .
and they don 't really change much .
now think about religions , think about organized religions .
what do organized religions do ?
they group together , they form institutions .
and that has all sorts of advantages .
first of all , scale , might .
the catholic church pulled in 97 billion dollars last year according to the wall street journal .
these are massive machines .
they 're collaborative , they 're branded , they 're multinational , and they 're highly disciplined .
these are all very good qualities .
we recognize them in relation to corporations .
and corporations are very like religions in many ways , except they 're right down at the bottom of the pyramid of needs .
they 're selling us shoes and cars .
whereas the people who are selling us the higher stuff -- the therapists , the poets -- are on their own and they have no power , they have no might .
so religions are the foremost example of an institution that is fighting for the things of the mind .
now we may not agree with what religions are trying to teach us , but we can admire the institutional way in which they 're doing it .
books alone , books written by lone individuals , are not going to change anything .
we need to group together .
if you want to change the world , you have to group together , you have to be collaborative .
and that 's what religions do .
they are multinational , as i say , they are branded , they have a clear identity , so they don 't get lost in a busy world .
that 's something we can learn from .
i want to conclude .
really what i want to say is for many of you who are operating in a range of different fields , there is something to learn from the example of religion -- even if you don 't believe any of it .
if you 're involved in anything that 's communal , that involves lots of people getting together , there are things for you in religion .
if you 're involved , say , in a travel industry in any way , look at pilgrimage .
look very closely at pilgrimage .
we haven 't begun to scratch the surface of what travel could be because we haven 't looked at what religions do with travel .
if you 're in the art world , look at the example of what religions are doing with art .
and if you 're an educator in any way , again , look at how religions are spreading ideas .
you may not agree with the ideas , but my goodness , they 're highly effective mechanisms for doing so .
so really my concluding point is you may not agree with religion , but at the end of the day , religions are so subtle , so complicated , so intelligent in many ways that they 're not fit to be abandoned to the religious alone ; they 're for all of us .
thank you very much .
chris anderson : now this is actually a courageous talk , because you 're kind of setting up yourself in some ways to be ridiculed in some quarters .
ab : you can get shot by both sides .
you can get shot by the hard-headed atheists , and you can get shot by those who fully believe .
ca : incoming missiles from north oxford at any moment .
ab : indeed .
ca : but you left out one aspect of religion that a lot of people might say your agenda could borrow from , which is this sense -- that 's actually probably the most important thing to anyone who 's religious -- of spiritual experience , of some kind of connection with something that 's bigger than you are .
is there any room for that experience in atheism 2.0 ?
ab : absolutely . i , like many of you , meet people who say things like , " but isn 't there something bigger than us , something else ? " and i say , " of course . " and they say , " so aren 't you sort of religious ? " and i go , " no . " why does that sense of mystery , that sense of the dizzying scale of the universe , need to be accompanied by a mystical feeling ?
science and just observation gives us that feeling without it , so i don 't feel the need .
the universe is large and we are tiny , without the need for further religious superstructure .
so one can have so-called spiritual moments without belief in the spirit .
ca : actually , let me just ask a question .
how many people here would say that religion is important to them ?
is there an equivalent process by which there 's a sort of bridge between what you 're talking about and what you would say to them ?
ab : i would say that there are many , many gaps in secular life and these can be plugged .
it 's not as though , as i try to suggest , it 's not as though either you have religion and then you have to accept all sorts of things , or you don 't have religion and then you 're cut off from all these very good things .
it 's so sad that we constantly say , " i don 't believe so i can 't have community , so i 'm cut off from morality , so i can 't go on a pilgrimage . " one wants to say , " nonsense . why not ? " and that 's really the spirit of my talk .
there 's so much we can absorb .
atheism shouldn 't cut itself off from the rich sources of religion .
ca : it seems to me that there 's plenty of people in the ted community who are atheists .
but probably most people in the community certainly don 't think that religion is going away any time soon and want to find the language to have a constructive dialogue and to feel like we can actually talk to each other and at least share some things in common .
are we foolish to be optimistic about the possibility of a world where , instead of religion being the great rallying cry of divide and war , that there could be bridging ?
ab : no , we need to be polite about differences .
politeness is a much-overlooked virtue .
it 's seen as hypocrisy .
but we need to get to a stage when you 're an atheist and someone says , " well you know , i did pray the other day , " you politely ignore it .
you move on .
because you 've agreed on 90 percent of things , because you have a shared view on so many things , and you politely differ .
and i think that 's what the religious wars of late have ignored .
they 've ignored the possibility of harmonious disagreement .
ca : and finally , does this new thing that you 're proposing that 's not a religion but something else , does it need a leader , and are you volunteering to be the pope ?
ab : well , one thing that we 're all very suspicious of is individual leaders .
it doesn 't need it .
what i 've tried to lay out is a framework and i 'm hoping that people can just fill it in .
i 've sketched a sort of broad framework .
but wherever you are , as i say , if you 're in the travel industry , do that travel bit .
if you 're in the communal industry , look at religion and do the communal bit .
so it 's a wiki project .
ca : alain , thank you for sparking many conversations later .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / anil _ ananthaswamy.html
all over the planet , giant telescopes and detectors are looking for clues to the workings of the universe . at the ink conference , science writer anil ananthaswamy tours us around these amazing installations , taking us to some of the most remote and silent places on earth .
exploration , journalism , science , technology , universe
1129
anil ananthaswamy : what it takes to do extreme astrophysics
i would like to talk today about what i think is one of the greatest adventures human beings have embarked upon , which is the quest to understand the universe and our place in it .
my own interest in this subject , and my passion for it , began rather accidentally .
i had bought a copy of this book , " the universe and dr. einstein " -- a used paperback from a secondhand bookstore in seattle .
a few years after that , in bangalore , i was finding it hard to fall asleep one night , and i picked up this book , thinking it would put me to sleep in 10 minutes .
and as it happened , i read it from midnight to five in the morning in one shot .
and i was left with this intense feeling of awe and exhilaration at the universe and our own ability to understand as much as we do .
and that feeling hasn 't left me yet .
that feeling was the trigger for me to actually change my career -- from being a software engineer to become a science writer -- so that i could partake in the joy of science , and also the joy of communicating it to others .
and that feeling also led me to a pilgrimage of sorts , to go literally to the ends of the earth to see telescopes , detectors , instruments that people are building , or have built , in order to probe the cosmos in greater and greater detail .
so it took me from places like chile -- the atacama desert in chile -- to siberia , to underground mines in the japanese alps , in northern america , all the way to antarctica and even to the south pole .
and today i would like to share with you some images , some stories of these trips .
i have been basically spending the last few years documenting the efforts of some extremely intrepid men and women who are putting , literally at times , their lives at stake working in some very remote and very hostile places so that they may gather the faintest signals from the cosmos in order for us to understand this universe .
and i first begin with a pie chart -- and i promise this is the only pie chart in the whole presentation --
but it sets up the state of our knowledge of the cosmos .
all the theories in physics that we have today properly explain what is called normal matter -- the stuff that we 're all made of -- and that 's four percent of the universe .
astronomers and cosmologists and physicists think that there is something called dark matter in the universe , which makes up 23 percent of the universe , and something called dark energy , which permeates the fabric of space-time , that makes up another 73 percent .
so if you look at this pie chart , 96 percent of the universe , at this point in our exploration of it , is unknown or not well understood .
and most of the experiments , telescopes that i went to see are in some way addressing this question , these two twin mysteries of dark matter and dark energy .
i will take you first to an underground mine in northern minnesota where people are looking for something called dark matter .
and the idea here is that they are looking for a sign of a dark matter particle hitting one of their detectors .
and the reason why they have to go underground is that , if you did this experiment on the surface of the earth , the same experiment would be swamped by signals that could be created by things like cosmic rays , ambient radio activity , even our own bodies . you might not believe it , but even our own bodies are radioactive enough to disturb this experiment .
so they go deep inside mines to find a kind of environmental silence that will allow them to hear the ping of a dark matter particle hitting their detector .
and i went to see one of these experiments , and this is actually -- you can barely see it , and the reason for that is it 's entirely dark in there --
this is a cavern that was left behind by the miners who left this mine in 1960 .
and physicists came and started using it sometime in the 1980s .
and the miners in the early part of the last century worked , literally , in candlelight .
and today , you would see this inside the mine , half a mile underground .
this is one of the largest underground labs in the world .
and , among other things , they 're looking for dark matter .
there is another way to search for dark matter , which is indirectly .
if dark matter exists in our universe , in our galaxy , then these particles should be smashing together and producing other particles that we know about -- one of them being neutrinos .
and neutrinos you can detect by the signature they leave when they hit water molecules .
when a neutrino hits a water molecule it emits a kind of blue light , a flash of blue light , and by looking for this blue light , you can essentially understand something about the neutrino and then , indirectly , something about the dark matter that might have created this neutrino .
but you need very , very large volumes of water in order to do this .
you need something like tens of megatons of water -- almost a gigaton of water -- in order to have any chance of catching this neutrino .
and where in the world would you find such water ?
well the russians have a tank in their own backyard .
this is lake baikal .
it is the largest lake in the world . it 's 800 km long .
it 's about 40 to 50 km wide in most places , and one to two kilometers deep .
and what the russians are doing is they 're building these detectors and immersing them about a kilometer beneath the surface of the lake so that they can watch for these flashes of blue light .
and this is the scene that greeted me when i landed there .
this is lake baikal in the peak of the siberian winter .
the lake is entirely frozen .
and the line of black dots that you see in the background , that 's the ice camp where the physicists are working .
the reason why they have to work in winter is because they don 't have the money to work in summer and spring , which , if they did that , they would need ships and submersibles to do their work .
so they wait until winter -- the lake is completely frozen over -- and they use this meter-thick ice as a platform on which to establish their ice camp and do their work .
so this is the russians working on the ice in the peak of the siberian winter .
they have to drill holes in the ice , dive down into the water -- cold , cold water -- to get hold of the instrument , bring it up , do any repairs and maintenance that they need to do , put it back and get out before the ice melts .
because that phase of solid ice lasts for two months and it 's full of cracks .
and you have to imagine , there 's an entire sea-like lake underneath , moving .
i still don 't understand this one russian man working in his bare chest , but that tells you how hard he was working .
and these people , a handful of people , have been working for 20 years , looking for particles that may or may not exist . and they have dedicated their lives to it .
and just to give you an idea , they have spent 20 million over 20 years .
it 's very harsh conditions .
they work on a shoestring budget .
the toilets there are literally holes in the ground covered with a wooden shack .
and it 's that basic , but they do this every year .
from siberia to the atacama desert in chile , to see something called the very large telescope .
the very large telescope is one of these things that astronomers do -- they name their telescopes rather unimaginatively .
i can tell you for a fact , that the next one that they 're planning is called the extremely large telescope .
and you wouldn 't believe it , but the one after that is going to be called the overwhelmingly large telescope .
but nonetheless , it 's an extraordinary piece of engineering .
these are four 8.2 meter telescopes .
and these telescopes , among other things , they 're being used to study how the expansion of the universe is changing with time .
and the more you understand that , the better you would understand what this dark energy that the universe is made of is all about .
and one piece of engineering that i want to leave you with as regards this telescope is the mirror . each mirror , there are four of them , is made of a single piece of glass , a monolithic piece of high-tech ceramic , that has been ground down and polished to such accuracy that the only way to understand what that is is [ to ] imagine a city like paris , with all its buildings and the eiffel tower ,
if you grind down paris to that kind of accuracy , you would be left with bumps that are one millimeter high .
and that 's the kind of polishing that these mirrors have endured .
an extraordinary set of telescopes .
here 's another view of the same .
the reason why you have to build these telescopes in places like the atacama desert is because of the high altitude desert .
the dry air is really good for telescopes , and also , the cloud cover is below the summit of these mountains so that the telescopes have about 300 days of clear skies .
finally , i want to take you to antarctica .
i want to spend most of my time on this part of the world .
this is cosmology 's final frontier .
some of the most amazing experiments , some of the most extreme experiments , are being done in antarctica .
i was there to view something called a long-duration balloon flight , which basically takes telescopes and instruments all the way to the upper atmosphere , the upper stratosphere , 40 km up .
and that 's where they do their experiments , and then the balloon , the payload , is brought down .
so this is us landing on the ross ice shelf in antarctica .
that 's an american c-17 cargo plane that flew us from new zealand to mcmurdo in antarctica .
and here we are about to board our bus .
and i don 't know if you can read the lettering , but it says , " ivan the terribus . "
and that 's taking us to mcmurdo .
and this is the scene that greets you in mcmurdo .
and you barely might be able to make out this hut here .
this hut was built by robert falcon scott and his men when they first came to antarctica on their first expedition to go to the south pole .
because it 's so cold , the entire contents of that hut is still as they left it , with the remnants of the last meal they cooked still there .
it 's an extraordinary place .
this is mcmurdo itself . about a thousand people work here in summer , and about 200 in winter when it 's completely dark for six months .
i was here to see the launch of this particular type of instrument .
this is a cosmic ray experiment that has been launched all the way to the upper-stratosphere to an altitude of 40 km .
what i want you to imagine is this is two tons in weight .
so you 're using a balloon to carry something that is two tons all the way to an altitude of 40 km .
and the engineers , the technicians , the physicists have all got to assemble on the ross ice shelf , because antarctica -- i won 't go into the reasons why -- but it 's one of the most favorable places for doing these balloon launches , except for the weather .
the weather , as you can imagine ,
this is summer , and you 're standing on 200 ft of ice .
and there 's a volcano behind , which has glaciers at the very top .
and what they have to do is they have to assemble the entire balloon -- the fabric , parachute and everything -- on the ice and then fill it up with helium .
and that process takes about two hours .
and the weather can change as they 're putting together this whole assembly .
for instance , here they are laying down the balloon fabric behind , which is eventually going to be filled up with helium .
those two trucks you see at the very end carry 12 tanks each of compressed helium .
now , in case the weather changes before the launch , they have to actually pack everything back up into their boxes and take it out back to mcmurdo station .
and this particular balloon , because it has to launch two tons of weight , is an extremely huge balloon .
the fabric alone weighs two tons .
in order to minimize the weight , it 's very thin , it 's as thin as a sandwich wrapper .
and if they have to pack it back , they have to put it into boxes and stamp on it so that it fits into the box again -- except , when they did it first , it would have been done in texas .
here , they can 't do it with the kind shoes they 're wearing , so they have to take their shoes off , get barefoot into the boxes , in this cold , and do that kind of work .
that 's the kind of dedication these people have .
here 's the balloon being filled up with helium , and you can see it 's a gorgeous sight .
here 's a scene that shows you the balloon and the payload end-to-end .
so the balloon is being filled up with helium on the left-hand side , and the fabric actually runs all the way to the middle where there 's a piece of electronics and explosives being connected to a parachute , and then the parachute is then connected to the payload .
and remember , all this wiring is being done by people in extreme cold , in sub-zero temperatures .
they 're wearing about 15 kg of clothing and stuff , but they have to take their gloves off in order to do that .
and i would like to share with you a launch .
radio : okay , release the balloon , release the balloon , release the balloon .
anil ananthaswamy : and i 'll finally like to leave you with two images .
this is an observatory in the himalayas , in ladakh in india .
and the thing i want you to look at here is the telescope on the right-hand side .
and on the far left there is a 400 year-old buddhist monastery .
this is a close-up of the buddhist monastery .
and i was struck by the juxtaposition of these two enormous disciplines that humanity has .
one is exploring the cosmos on the outside , and the other one is exploring our interior being .
and both require silence of some sort .
and what struck me was every place that i went to to see these telescopes , the astronomers and cosmologists are in search of a certain kind of silence , whether it 's silence from radio pollution or light pollution or whatever .
and it was very obvious that , if we destroy these silent places on earth , we will be stuck on a planet without the ability to look outwards , because we will not be able to understand the signals that come from outer space .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / brewster _ kahle _ builds _ a _ free _ digital _ library.html
brewster kahle is building a truly huge digital library -- every book ever published , every movie ever released , all the strata of web history ... it 's all free to the public -- unless someone else gets to it first .
book , design , entertainment , film , history , library , media , music , technology , web
346
brewster kahle builds a free digital library
we really need to put the best we have to offer within reach of our children .
if we don 't do that , we 're going to get the generation we deserve .
they 're going to learn from whatever it is they have around them .
and we , as now the elite , parents , librarians , professionals , whatever it is , a bunch of our activities are , in fact , in trying to get the best we have to offer within reach of those around us , or as broadly as we can .
i 'm going to start and end this talk with a couple things that are carved in stone .
one is what 's on the boston public library .
carved above their door is , " free to all . " it 's kind of an inspiring statement , and i 'll go back at the end of this .
i 'm a librarian , and what i 'm trying to do is bring all of the works of knowledge to as many people as want to read it .
and the idea of using technology is perfect for us .
i think we have the opportunity to one-up the greeks .
it 's not easy to one-up the greeks . but with the industriousness of the egyptians , they were able to build the library of alexandria -- the idea of a copy of every book of all the peoples of the world .
the problem was you actually had to go to alexandria to go to it .
on the other hand , if you did , then great things happened .
i think we can one-up the greeks and achieve something .
and i 'm going to try to argue only one point today : that universal access to all knowledge is within our grasp .
so if i 'm successful , then you 'll actually come away thinking , yeah , we could actually achieve the great vision of everything ever published , everything that was ever meant for distribution , available to anybody in the world that 's ever wanted to have access to it .
yes , there 's issues about how money should be distributed , and that 's still being refigured out .
but i 'd say there 's plenty of money , and there 's plenty of demand , so we can actually achieve that .
but i 'm going to go over the technological , social and sort of where are we as a whole , trying to get to that particular vision .
and the way i 'm going to try to do this is do it like the amazon.com website , the books , music , video and just go step -- media type by media type , just go and say , all right , how 're we doing on this ?
so if we start with books , you know , sort of where are we ?
well , first you have to , as an engineer , scope the problem . how big is it ?
if you wanted to put all of the published works online so that anybody could have it available , well , how big a problem is it ?
well , we don 't really know , but the largest print library in the world is the library of congress . it 's 26 million volumes , 26 million volumes .
it is , by far and away , the largest print library in the world .
and a book , if you had a book , is about a megabyte , so -- you know , if you had it in microsoft word .
so a megabyte , 26 million megabytes is 26 terabytes -- it goes mega- , giga- , tera- . 26 terabytes .
26 terabytes fits in a computer system that 's about this big , on spinning linux drives , and it costs about 60,000 dollars .
so for the cost of a house -- or around here , a garage -- you can put , you can have spinning all of the words in the library of congress .
that 's pretty neat .
then the question is , what do you get ?
you know , is it worth trying to get there ?
do you actually want it online ?
some of the first things that people do is they make book readers that allow you to search inside the books , and that 's kind of fun .
and you can download these things , and look around them in new and different ways .
and you can get at them remotely , if you happen to have a laptop .
there 's starting to be some of these sort of page turn-y interfaces that look a whole lot like books in certain ways , and you can search them , make little tabs , and it 's kind of cute -- still very book-like -- on your laptop .
but i don 't know , reading things on a laptop -- whenever i pull up my laptop , it always feels like work .
i think that 's one of the reasons why the kindle is so great .
i don 't have to feel like i 'm at work to read a kindle . it 's starting to be a little bit more specified .
but i have to say that there 's older technologies that i tend to like .
i like the physical book .
and i think we can go and use our technology to go and digitize things , put them on the net , and then download , print them and bind them , and end up with books again .
and we sort of said , well , how hard is this ?
and it turns out to not be very hard .
we actually went off to make a bookmobile .
and a bookmobile -- the size of a van with a satellite dish , a printer , binder and cutter , and kids make their own books .
it costs about three dollars to download , print and bind a normal , old book .
and they actually come out kind of nice looking .
you can actually get really good-looking books for on the order of one penny per page , sort of the parts cost for doing this .
so the idea of -- this technology actually may end up putting books back in people 's hands again .
there are some other bookmobiles running around .
this is eric eldred making books at walden pond -- thoreau 's works .
this is just before he got kicked out by the parks services , for competing with the bookstore there .
in india , they 've got another couple bookmobiles running around .
and this is the opening day at the library of alexandria , the new library of alexandria , in egypt .
it was quite popularly attended .
and kids starting to make their own books ,
and a happy kid with the first book that he 's ever owned .
so the idea of being able to use this technology to end up with paper where i can handle sort of sounds a little retro , but i think it still has its place .
and being from the silicon valley , sort of utopian sort of world , we thought , if we can make this technology work in rural uganda , we might have something .
so we actually got some funding from the world bank to try it out .
and we found in about 30 days we could go and take a couple folks from silicon valley , fly them to uganda , buy a car , set up the first internet connection at the national library of uganda , figure out what they wanted , and get a program going making books in rural uganda .
and it actually -- so technologically , it works .
what we found out of this is we didn 't have the right books .
so the books were in the library . we could get it to people , if they 're digitized , but we didn 't know how to quite get them digitized .
everybody thought the answer is , send things to india and china .
and so we 've tried that , and i 'll go over that in a moment .
there are some newer technologies for delivering that have happened that are actually quite exciting as well .
one is a print-on-demand machine that looks like a rube goldberg machine .
we have one of these things now . it 's completely cool .
it 's all conveyor belt , and it makes a book .
and it 's called the " espresso book machine , " and in about 10 minutes , you can press a button and make a book .
something else i 'm quite excited about in this particular domain , beyond these sort of kiosk-y things where you can get books on demand , is some of these new little screens that are coming out .
and one of my favorites in this is the $ 100 laptop .
and i don 't mean to steal any thunder here , but we 've gone and used one of these things to be an e-book reader .
so here 's one of the beta units and you can -- it actually turns out to be a really good-looking e-book reader .
and we have a quick hack that we did to try to put one of our books on it , and it turns out that 200 dots per inch means that you can put scanned books on them that look really good .
at 200 dots per inch , it 's kind of the equivalent of a 300 dot print laser printer .
we 're in good enough shape .
you actually can go and read scanned books quite easily .
so the idea of electronic books is starting to come about .
but how do you go about doing all this scanning ?
so we thought , okay , well , let 's try out this send books to india thing .
and there was a project with , funded by the national science foundation -- sent a bunch of scanners , and the american libraries were supposed to send books .
well , they didn 't . they didn 't want to send their books .
so we bought 100,000 books and sent them to india .
and then we learned why you don 't want to send books to india .
the lesson we learned out of this is , scan your own books .
if you really care about books , you 're going to scan them better , especially if they 're valuable books .
if they 're new books and you can just , you know , butcher them , because you could just buy another one , that 's not such a big deal in terms of doing high-quality scanning .
but do things that you love .
but the indians have been scanning a lot of their own books -- about 300,000 now -- doing very well .
the chinese did over a million , and the egyptians are about 30,000 .
but we sent -- thought , ok , if we 're going to need to do this , let 's do it in-library .
how do we go and do this , and how do we get it down so that it 's a cost point that we could afford ?
and we sort of picked the price point of 10 cents a page .
if it 's basically the cost of xeroxing to basically digitize , ocr , package it up , make it so that you could download , print and bind it -- the whole shebang -- we would have achieved something .
so we started out trying to figure out . how do we get to 10 cents ?
and we tried these robot things , and they worked pretty well -- sort of these auto-page-turning things .
if we can have mars rovers , you 'd think you could turn pages .
but it actually turns out to be pretty hard to turn pages , and the volume isn 't there .
so anyway -- so we ended up making our own book scanner ,
and with two digital , high-grade , professional digital cameras , controlled museum lighting , so even if it 's a black and white book , you can go and get the proper intonation .
so you basically do a beautiful , respectful job .
this is not a fax , this is -- the idea is to do a beautiful job as you 're going through these libraries .
and we 've been able to achieve 10 cents a page if we run things in volume .
this is what it looks like at the university of toronto .
and actually , it turns out to , you know , pay a living wage .
people seem to love it .
yes , it 's a little boring , but some people kind of get into the zen of it .
and especially if it 's kind of interesting books that you care about , in languages that you can read . we actually have been able to do a pretty good job of this , at getting 10 cents a page .
so 10 cents a page , 300 pages in your average book , 30 dollars a book .
the library of congress , if you did the whole darn thing -- 26 million books -- is about 750 million dollars , right ?
but a million books , i think , actually would be a pretty good start , and that would cost 30 million dollars . that 's not that big a bill .
and what we 've been able to do is get into libraries .
we 've now got eight of these scanning centers in three countries , and libraries are up for having their books scanned . the getty here is moving their books to the ucla , which is where we have one these scanning centers , and scanning their out-of-copyright books , which is fabulous .
so we 're starting to get the institutional responsibility .
the thing we 're missing is the 10 cents .
if we can get the 10 cents , all the rest of it flows .
we 've scanned about 200,000 books .
now we 're scanning about 15,000 books a month ,
and it 's starting to gear up another factor of two from there .
so all in all , that 's going very well .
and we 're starting to move out of the just out-of-copyright into the out-of-print world .
so i think of -- we 're kind of going from the out-of-copyright , library stuff , and amazon.com is coming from the in-print world . and i think we 'll meet in the middle some place , and have the classic thing that you have , which is a publishing system and a library system working in parallel .
and so we 're starting up a program to do out-of-print works , but loaning them .
exactly what loaning means , i 'm not quite sure .
but anyway , loaning out-of-print works from the boston public library , the woods hole oceanographic institute and a few other libraries that are starting to participate in this program , to try out this model of where does a library stop and where does the bookstore take over .
so all in all , it 's possible to do this in large scale .
we 're also going back over microfilm and getting that online .
so , we can do 10 cents a page , we 're going 15,000 books a month and we 've got about 250,000 books online , counting all the other projects that are starting to add in .
so what i wanted to argue is , books are within our grasp .
the idea of taking on the whole ball of wax is not that big a deal .
yes , it costs tens of millions , low hundreds of millions , but one time shot and we 've got basically the history of printed literature online .
and then , there 's business model issues about how to try to effectively market it and get it to people .
but it is within our grasp , technologically and law-wise , at least for the out of print and out of copyright , we suggest , to be able to get the whole darn thing online .
now let 's go for audio , and i 'm going to go through these .
so how much is there ?
well , as best we can tell , there are about two to three million disks having been published -- so 78s , long-playing records and cds -- or at least that 's the largest archives of published materials we 've been able to sort of point at .
it costs about 10 dollars a piece to go and take a disk and put it online , if you 're doing things in volume .
but we 've found that the rights issues are really quite thorny .
this is a fairly heavily litigated area , so we 've found that there are niches in the music world that aren 't served terribly well by the classic commercial publishing system .
and we 've been starting to make these available by going and offering shelf space on the net .
in the united states , it doesn 't cost you to give something away . right ?
if you give something to a charity or to the public , you get a pat on the back and a tax donation -- except on the net , where you can go broke .
if you put up a video of your garage band , and it starts getting heavily accessed , you can lose your guitars or your house .
this doesn 't make any sense .
so we 've offered unlimited storage , unlimited bandwidth , forever , for free , to anybody that has something to share that belongs in a library .
and we 've been getting a lot of takers . one is the rock ' n ' rollers .
the rock ' n ' rollers had a tradition of sharing , as long as nobody made any money . you could -- concert recordings , it 's not the commercial recordings , but concert recordings , started by the grateful dead .
and we get about two or three bands a day signing up .
they give permission , and we get about 40 or 50 concerts a day .
we have about 40,000 concerts , everything the grateful dead ever did , up on the net , so that people can see it and listen to this material .
so audio is possible to put up , but the rights issues are really pretty thorny .
we 've got a lot of collections now -- a couple hundred thousand items -- and it 's growing over time .
moving images : if you think of theatrical releases , there are not that many of them .
as best we can tell , there are about 150,000 to 200,000 movies ever that are really meant for a large-scale theatrical distribution . it 's just not that many .
but half of those were indian .
but anyway , it 's doable , but we 've only found about a thousand of these things that -- to be out of copyright .
so we 've digitized those and made those available .
but we 've found that there 's lots of other types of movies that haven 't really seen the light of day -- archival films .
we 've found , also , a lot of political films , a lot of amateur films , all sorts of things that are basically needing a home , a permanent home .
so we 've been starting to make these available and it 's grown to be very popular .
we 're not quite a youtube . we tended towards longer-term things and also things that people can reuse and make into new movies , which has just been great fun .
television comes quite a bit larger .
we started recording 20 channels of television 24 hours a day .
it 's sort of the biggest tivo box you 've ever seen .
it 's about a petabyte , so far , of worldwide television -- russian , chinese , japanese , iraqi , al jazeera , bbc , cnn , abc , cbs , nbc -- 24 hours a day .
we only put one week up , which is mostly for cost reasons , which is the 9 / 11 , sort of from 9 / 11 / 2001 . for one week , what did the world see ?
cnn was saying that palestinians were dancing in the streets .
were they ? let 's look at the palestinian television and find out .
how can we have critical thinking without being able to quote
and being able to compare what happened in the past ?
and television is dreadfully unrecorded and unquotable , except by jon stewart , who does a fabulous job .
so anyway , television is , i would suggest , within our grasp .
so 15 dollars per video hour , and also about 100 dollars to 150 dollars per celluloid hour , we 're able to go and get materials online very inexpensively and have them up on the net .
and we 've got , now , a lot of these materials .
so we 've got about 100,000 pieces up there .
so books , music , video , software . there 's only 50,000 titles of it .
mostly the issues there are legal issues and breaking copy protections .
but we 've worked through some of those , but we 've still got real problems in washington .
well , we 're best known as the world wide web .
we 've been archiving the world wide web since 1996 .
we take a snapshot of every website and all of the pages on it , every two months .
and actually , it 's really been pioneered by alexa internet , which donates this collection to the internet archive .
and it 's been growing along for the last 11 years , and it 's a fantastic resource .
and we 've made a wayback machine that you can then go and see old websites kind of the way they were .
if you go and search on something -- this is google.com , the different versions of it that we have , this is what it looks like when it was an alpha release , and this is what it looked like at stanford .
so anyway , you 've got basically an idea of where things came from .
mostly , people want to see their old stuff out of this .
if there 's one thing that we want to learn from the library of alexandria version one , which is probably best known for burning , is , don 't just have one copy .
so we 've started to -- we 've made another copy of all of this and we actually put it back in the library of alexandria .
so this is a picture of the internet archive at the library of alexandria .
and we now have also another copy building up in amsterdam .
so , we should put it in the san andreas fault line in san francisco , flood zone in amsterdam and in the middle east . right , so anyway ...
so we 're hedging our bets here .
if we go and put it in a couple more places , i think we 'll be in good shape .
there 's a political and social question out of this .
is all of this , as we go digital , is it going to be public or private ?
there 's some large companies that have seen this vision , that are doing large-scale digitization , but they 're locking up the public domain .
the question is , is that the world that we really want to live in ?
what 's the role of the public versus the private as things go forward ?
how do we go and have a world where we both have libraries and publishing in the future , just as we basically benefited as we were growing up ?
so universal access to all knowledge -- i think it can be one of the greatest achievements of humankind , like the man on the moon , or the gutenberg bible , or the library of alexandria .
it could be something that we 're remembered for , for millennia , for having achieved .
and as i said before , i 'll end with something that 's carved above the door of the carnegie library . carnegie -- one of the great capitalists of this country -- carved above his legacy , " free to the people . "
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / stacey _ kramer _ the _ best _ gift _ i _ ever _ survived.html
stacey kramer offers a moving , personal , 3-minute parable that shows how an unwanted experience -- frightening , traumatic , costly -- can turn out to be a priceless gift .
cancer , medicine , personal growth , storytelling
975
stacey kramer : the best gift i ever survived
imagine , if you will -- a gift .
i 'd like for you to picture it in your mind .
it 's not too big -- about the size of a golf ball .
so envision what it looks like all wrapped up .
but before i show you what 's inside , i will tell you , it 's going to do incredible things for you .
it will bring all of your family together .
you will feel loved and appreciated like never before and reconnect with friends and acquaintances you haven 't heard from in years .
adoration and admiration will overwhelm you .
it will recalibrate what 's most important in your life .
it will redefine your sense of spirituality and faith .
you 'll have a new understanding and trust in your body .
you 'll have unsurpassed vitality and energy .
you 'll expand your vocabulary , meet new people , and you 'll have a healthier lifestyle .
and get this -- you 'll have an eight-week vacation of doing absolutely nothing .
you 'll eat countless gourmet meals .
flowers will arrive by the truckload .
people will say to you , " you look great . have you had any work done ? "
and you 'll have a lifetime supply of good drugs .
you 'll be challenged , inspired , motivated and humbled .
your life will have new meaning .
peace , health , serenity , happiness , nirvana .
the price ?
$ 55,000 ,
and that 's an incredible deal .
by now i know you 're dying to know what it is and where you can get one .
does amazon carry it ?
does it have the apple logo on it ?
is there a waiting list ?
not likely .
this gift came to me about five months ago .
it looked more like this when it was all wrapped up -- not quite so pretty .
and this ,
and then this .
it was a rare gem -- a brain tumor , hemangioblastoma -- the gift that keeps on giving .
and while i 'm okay now , i wouldn 't wish this gift for you .
i 'm not sure you 'd want it .
but i wouldn 't change my experience .
it profoundly altered my life in ways i didn 't expect in all the ways i just shared with you .
so the next time you 're faced with something that 's unexpected , unwanted and uncertain , consider that it just may be a gift .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / paul _ stamets _ on _ 6 _ ways _ mushrooms _ can _ save _ the _ world.html
mycologist paul stamets lists 6 ways the mycelium fungus can help save the universe : cleaning polluted soil , making insecticides , treating smallpox and even flu ... < a href = " http : / / www.ted.com / index.php / speakers / view / id / 229 " target = " _ blank " > read more < / a > .
biology , design , food , global issues , pollution , science , technology
258
paul stamets on 6 ways mushrooms can save the world
i love a challenge , and saving the earth is probably a good one .
we all know the earth is in trouble .
we have now entered in the 6x , the sixth major extinction on this planet .
i often wondered , if there was a united organization of organisms -- otherwise known as " uh-oh " -- -- and every organism had a right to vote , would we be voted on the planet , or off the planet ?
i think that vote is occurring right now .
i want to present to you a suite of six mycological solutions , using fungi , and these solutions are based on mycelium .
the mycelium infuses all landscapes , it holds soils together , it 's extremely tenacious .
this holds up to 30,000 times its mass .
they 're the grand molecular disassemblers of nature -- the soil magicians .
they generate the humus soils across the landmasses of earth .
we have now discovered that there is a multi-directional transfer of nutrients between plants , mitigated by the mcyelium -- so the mycelium is the mother that is giving nutrients from alder and birch trees to hemlocks , cedars and douglas firs .
dusty and i , we like to say , on sunday , this is where we go to church .
i 'm in love with the old-growth forest , and i 'm a patriotic american because we have those .
most of you are familiar with portobello mushrooms .
and frankly , i face a big obstacle . when i mention mushrooms to somebody , they immediately think portobellos or magic mushrooms , their eyes glaze over , and they think i 'm a little crazy .
so , i hope to pierce that prejudice forever with this group .
we call it mycophobia , the irrational fear of the unknown , when it comes to fungi .
mushrooms are very fast in their growth .
day 21 , day 23 , day 25 .
mushrooms produce strong antibiotics .
in fact , we 're more closely related to fungi than we are to any other kingdom .
a group of 20 eukaryotic microbiologists published a paper two years ago erecting opisthokonta -- a super-kingdom that joins animalia and fungi together .
we share in common the same pathogens .
fungi don 't like to rot from bacteria , and so our best antibiotics come from fungi .
but here is a mushroom that 's past its prime .
after they sporulate , they do rot .
but i propose to you that the sequence of microbes that occur on rotting mushrooms are essential for the health of the forest .
they give rise to the trees , they create the debris fields that feed the mycelium .
and so we see a mushroom here sporulating .
and the spores are germinating , and the mycelium forms and goes underground .
in a single cubic inch of soil , there can be more than eight miles of these cells .
my foot is covering approximately 300 miles of mycelium .
this is photomicrographs from nick read and patrick hickey .
and notice that as the mycelium grows , it conquers territory and then it begins the net .
i 've been a scanning electron microscopist for many years , i have thousands of electron micrographs , and when i 'm staring at the mycelium , i realize that they are microfiltration membranes .
we exhale carbon dioxide , so does mycelium .
it inhales oxygen , just like we do .
but these are essentially externalized stomachs and lungs .
and i present to you a concept that these are extended neurological membranes .
and in these cavities , these micro-cavities form , and as they fuse soils , they absorb water .
these are little wells .
and inside these wells , then microbial communities begin to form .
and so the spongy soil not only resists erosion , but sets up a microbial universe that gives rise to a plurality of other organisms .
i first proposed , in the early 1990s , that mycelium is earth 's natural internet .
when you look at the mycelium , they 're highly branched .
and if there 's one branch that is broken , then very quickly , because of the nodes of crossing -- internet engineers maybe call them hot points -- there are alternative pathways for channeling nutrients and information .
the mycelium is sentient .
it knows that you are there .
when you walk across landscapes , it leaps up in the aftermath of your footsteps trying to grab debris .
so , i believe the invention of the computer internet is an inevitable consequence of a previously proven , biologically successful model .
the earth invented the computer internet for its own benefit , and we now , being the top organism on this planet , are trying to allocate resources in order to protect the biosphere .
going way out , dark matter conforms to the same mycelial archetype .
i believe matter begets life ; life becomes single cells ; single cells become strings ; strings become chains ; chains network .
and this is the paradigm that we see throughout the universe .
most of you may not know that fungi were the first organisms to come to land .
they came to land 1.3 billion years ago , and plants followed several hundred million years later .
how is that possible ?
it 's possible because the mycelium produces oxalic acids , and many other acids and enzymes , pockmarking rock and grabbing calcium and other minerals and forming calcium oxalates .
makes the rocks crumble , and the first step in the generation of soil .
oxalic acid is two carbon dioxide molecules joined together .
so , fungi and mycelium sequester carbon dioxide in the form of calcium oxalates .
and all sorts of other oxalates are also sequestering carbon dioxide through the minerals that are being formed and taken out of the rock matrix .
this was first discovered in 1859 .
this is a photograph by franz hueber .
this photograph 's taken 1950s in saudi arabia .
420 million years ago , this organism existed .
it was called prototaxites .
prototaxites , laying down , was about three feet tall .
the tallest plants on earth at that time were less than two feet .
dr. boyce , at the university of chicago , published an article in the journal of geology this past year determining that prototaxites was a giant fungus , a giant mushroom .
across the landscapes of earth were dotted these giant mushrooms .
all across most land masses .
and these existed for tens of millions of years .
now , we 've had several extinction events , and as we march forward -- 65 million years ago -- most of you know about it -- we had an asteroid impact .
the earth was struck by an asteroid , a huge amount of debris was jettisoned into the atmosphere .
sunlight was cut off , and fungi inherited the earth .
those organisms that paired with fungi were rewarded , because fungi do not need light .
more recently , at einstein university , they just determined that fungi use radiation as a source of energy , much like plants use light .
so , the prospect of fungi existing on other planets elsewhere , i think , is a forgone conclusion , at least in my own mind .
the largest organism in the world is in eastern oregon .
i couldn 't miss it . it was 2,200 acres in size :
2,200 acres in size , 2,000 years old .
the largest organism on the planet is a mycelial mat , one cell wall thick .
how is it that this organism can be so large , and yet be one cell wall thick , whereas we have five or six skin layers that protect us ?
the mycelium , in the right conditions , produces a mushroom -- it bursts through with such ferocity that it can break asphalt .
we were involved with several experiments .
i 'm going to show you six , if i can , solutions for helping to save the world .
battelle laboratories and i joined up in bellingham , washington .
there were four piles saturated with diesel and other petroleum waste :
one was a control pile ; one pile was treated with enzymes ; one pile was treated with bacteria ; and our pile we inoculated with mushroom mycelium .
the mycelium absorbs the oil .
the mycelium is producing enzymes -- peroxidases -- that break carbon-hydrogen bonds .
these are the same bonds that hold hydrocarbons together .
so , the mycelium becomes saturated with the oil , and then , when we returned six weeks later , all the tarps were removed , all the other piles were dead , dark and stinky .
we came back to our pile , it was covered with hundreds of pounds of oyster mushrooms , and the color changed to a light form .
the enzymes remanufactured the hydrocarbons into carbohydrates -- fungal sugars .
some of these mushrooms are very happy mushrooms .
they 're very large .
they 're showing how much nutrition that they could 've obtained .
but something else happened , which was an epiphany in my life .
they sporulated , the spores attract insects , the insects laid eggs , eggs became larvae .
birds then came , bringing in seeds , and our pile became an oasis of life .
whereas the other three piles were dead , dark and stinky , and the pah 's -- the aromatic hydrocarbons -- went from 10,000 parts per million to less than 200 in eight weeks .
the last image we don 't have . the entire pile was a green berm of life .
these are gateway species ,
vanguard species that open the door for other biological communities .
so i invented burlap sacks , bunker spawn -- and putting the mycelium -- using storm blown debris , you can take these burlap sacks and put them downstream from a farm that 's producing e. coli , or other wastes , or a factory with chemical toxins , and it leads to habitat restoration .
so , we set up a site in mason county , washington , and we 've seen a dramatic decrease in the amount of coliforms .
and i 'll show you a graph here .
this is a logarithmic scale , 10 to the eighth power .
there 's more than a 100 million colonies per gram , and 10 to the third power is around 1,000 .
in 48 hours to 72 hours , these three mushroom species reduced the amount of coliform bacteria 10,000 times .
think of the implications .
this is a space-conservative method that uses storm debris -- and we can guarantee that we will have storms every year .
so , this one mushroom , in particular , has drawn our interest over time .
this is my wife dusty , with a mushroom called fomitopsis officinalis -- agarikon .
it 's a mushroom exclusive to the old-growth forest that dioscorides first described in 65 a.d .
as a treatment against consumption .
this mushroom grows in washington state , oregon , northern california , british columbia , now thought to be extinct in europe .
may not seem that large -- let 's get closer .
this is extremely rare fungus .
our team -- and we have a team of experts that go out -- we went out 20 times in the old-growth forest last year .
we found one sample to be able to get into culture .
preserving the genome of these fungi in the old-growth forest i think is absolutely critical for human health .
i 've been involved with the u.s. defense department bioshield program .
we submitted over 300 samples of mushrooms that were boiled in hot water , and mycelium harvesting these extracellular metabolites .
and a few years ago , we received these results .
we have three different strains of agarikon mushrooms that were highly active against poxviruses .
dr. earl kern , who 's a smallpox expert of the u.s. defense department , states that any compounds that have a selectivity index of two or more are active .
10 or greater are considered to be very active .
our mushroom strains were in the highly active range .
there 's a vetted press release that you can read -- it 's vetted by dod -- if you google " stamets " and " smallpox . " or you can go to npr.org and listen to a live interview .
so , encouraged by this , naturally we went to flu viruses .
and so , for the first time , i am showing this .
we have three different strains of agarikon mushrooms highly active against flu viruses .
here 's the selectivity index numbers -- against pox , you saw 10s and 20s -- now against flu viruses , compared to the ribavirin controls , we have an extraordinarily high activity .
and we 're using a natural extract within the same dosage window as a pure pharmaceutical .
we tried it against flu a viruses -- h1n1 , h3n2 -- as well as flu b viruses .
so then we tried a blend , and in a blend combination we tried it against h5n1 , and we got greater than 1,000 selectivity index .
i then think that we can make the argument that we should save the old-growth forest as a matter of national defense .
i became interested in entomopathogenic fungi -- fungi that kill insects .
our house was being destroyed by carpenter ants .
so , i went to the epa homepage , and they were recommending studies with metarhizium species of a group of fungi that kill carpenter ants , as well as termites .
i did something that nobody else had done .
i actually chased the mycelium , when it stopped producing spores .
these are spores -- this is in their spores .
i was able to morph the culture into a non-sporulating form .
and so the industry has spent over 100 million dollars specifically on bait stations to prevent termites from eating your house .
but the insects aren 't stupid , and they would avoid the spores when they came close , and so i morphed the cultures into a non-sporulating form .
and i got my daughter 's barbie doll dish , i put it right where a bunch of carpenter ants were making debris fields , every day , in my house , and the ants were attracted to the mycelium , because there 's no spores .
they gave it to the queen .
one week later , i had no sawdust piles whatsoever .
and then -- a delicate dance between dinner and death -- the mycelium is consumed by the ants , they become mummified , and , boing , a mushroom pops out of their head .
now after sporulation , the spores repel .
so , the house is no longer suitable for invasion .
so , you have a near-permanent solution for reinvasion of termites .
and so my house came down , i received my first patent against carpenter ants , termites and fire ants .
then we tried extracts , and lo and behold , we can steer insects to different directions .
this has huge implications .
i then received my second patent -- and this is a big one .
it 's been called an alexander graham bell patent . it covers over 200,000 species .
this is the most disruptive technology -- i 've been told by executives of the pesticide industry -- that they have ever witnessed .
this could totally revamp the pesticide industries throughout the world .
you could fly 100 ph.d. students under the umbrella of this concept , because my supposition is that entomopathogenic fungi , prior to sporulation , attract the very insects
that are otherwise repelled by those spores .
and so i came up with a life box , because i needed a delivery system .
the life box -- you 're gonna be getting a dvd of the ted conference -- you add soil , you add water , you have mycorrhizal and endophytic fungi as well as spores , like of the agarikon mushroom .
the seeds then are mothered by this mycelium . and then you put tree seeds in here , and then you end up growing -- potentially -- an old-growth forest from a cardboard box .
i want to reinvent the delivery system , and the use of cardboard around the world , so they become ecological footprints .
if there 's a youtube-like site that you could put up , you could make it interactive , zip code specific -- where people could join together , and through satellite imaging systems , through virtual earth or google earth , you could confirm carbon credits are being sequestered
by the trees that are coming through life boxes .
you could take a cardboard box delivering shoes , you could add water -- i developed this for the refugee community -- corns , beans and squash and onions .
i took several containers -- my wife said , if i could do this , anybody could -- and i ended up growing a seed garden . then you harvest the seeds -- and thank you , eric rasmussen , for your help on this -- and then you 're harvesting the seed garden .
then you can harvest the kernels , and then you just need a few kernels . i add mycelium to it , and then i inoculate the corncobs .
now , three corncobs , no other grain -- lots of mushrooms begin to form . too many withdrawals from the carbon bank , and so this population will be shut down .
but watch what happens here .
the mushrooms then are harvested , but very importantly , the mycelium has converted the cellulose into fungal sugars .
and so i thought , how could we address the energy crisis in this country ?
and we came up with econol .
generating ethanol from cellulose using mycelium as an intermediary -- and you gain all the benefits that i 've described to you already .
but to go from cellulose to ethanol is ecologically unintelligent , and i think that we need to be econologically intelligent about the generation of fuels .
so , we build the carbon banks on the planet , renew the soils . these are a species that we need to join with .
i think engaging mycelium can help save the world .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jane _ poynter _ life _ in _ biosphere _ 2.html
at tedxusc , jane poynter tells her story of living two years and 20 minutes in biosphere 2 -- an experience that provoked her to explore how we might sustain life in the harshest of environments .
adventure , biosphere , biotech , climate change , environment , space
573
jane poynter : life in biosphere 2
i have had the distinct pleasure of living inside two biospheres .
of course we all here in this room live in biosphere 1 .
i 've also lived in biosphere 2 .
and the wonderful thing about that is that i get to compare biospheres . and hopefully from that i get to learn something .
so what did i learn ? well , here i am inside biosphere 2 , making a pizza .
so i am harvesting the wheat , in order to make the dough .
and then of course i have to milk the goats and feed the goats in order to make the cheese .
it took me four months in biosphere 2 to make a pizza .
here in biosphere 1 , well it takes me about two minutes ,
because i pick up the phone and i call and say , " hey , can you deliver the pizza ? "
so biosphere 2 was essentially a three-acre , entirely sealed , miniature world that i lived in for two years and 20 minutes .
over the top it was sealed with steel and glass ,
underneath it was sealed with a pan of steel --
essentially entirely sealed .
so we had our own miniature rainforest , a private beach with a coral reef .
we had a savanna , a marsh , a desert .
we had our own half-acre farm that we had to grow everything .
and of course we had our human habitat , where we lived .
back in the mid- ' 80s when we were designing biosphere 2 , we had to ask ourselves some pretty basic questions .
i mean , what is a biosphere ?
back then , yes , i guess we all know now that it is essentially the sphere of life around the earth , right ?
well , you have to get a little more specific than that if you 're going to build one .
and so we decided that what it really is is that it is entirely materially closed -- that is , nothing goes in or out at all , no material -- and energetically open ,
which is essentially what planet earth is .
this is a chamber that was 1 / 400th the size of biosphere 2 that we called our test module .
and the very first day that this fellow , john allen , walked in , to spend a couple of days in there with all the plants and animals and bacteria that we 'd put in there to hopefully keep him alive , the doctors were incredibly concerned that he was going to succumb to some dreadful toxin , or that his lungs were going to get choked with bacteria or something , fungus .
but of course none of that happened .
and over the ensuing few years , there were great sagas about designing biosphere 2 .
but by 1991 we finally had this thing built .
and it was time for us to go in and give it a go .
we needed to know , is life this malleable ?
can you take this biosphere , that has evolved on a planetary scale , and jam it into a little bottle , and will it survive ?
big questions .
and we wanted to know this both for being able to go somewhere else in the universe -- if we were going to go to mars , for instance , would we take a biosphere with us , to live in it ? we also wanted to know so we can understand more about the earth that we all live in .
well , in 1991 it was finally time for us to go in and try out this baby .
let 's take it on a maiden voyage .
will it work ? or will something happen that we can 't understand and we can 't fix ,
thereby negating the concept of man-made biospheres ?
so eight of us went in : four men and four women .
more on that later .
and this is the world that we lived in .
so , on the top , we had these beautiful rainforests and an ocean ,
and underneath we had all this technosphere , we called it ,
which is where all the pumps and the valves and the water tanks and the air handlers , and all of that .
one of the biospherians called it " garden of eden on top of an aircraft carrier . "
and then also we had the human habitat of course , with the laboratories , and all of that .
this is the agriculture .
it was essentially an organic farm .
the day i walked into biosphere 2 , i was , for the first time , breathing a completely different atmosphere than everybody else in the world , except seven other people .
at that moment i became part of that biosphere .
and i don 't mean that in an abstract sense ;
i mean it rather literally .
when i breathed out , my co2 fed the sweet potatoes that i was growing .
and we ate an awful lot of the sweet potatoes .
and those sweet potatoes became part of me .
in fact , we ate so many sweet potatoes i became orange with sweet potato .
i literally was eating the same carbon over and over again .
i was eating myself in some strange sort of bizarre way .
when it came to our atmosphere , however , it wasn 't that much of a joke over the long term ,
because it turned out that we were losing oxygen , quite a lot of oxygen .
and we knew that we were losing co2 .
and so we were working to sequester carbon .
good lord -- we know that term now .
we were growing plants like crazy .
we were taking their biomass , storing them in the basement , growing plants , going around , around , around , trying to take all of that carbon out of the atmosphere .
we were trying to stop carbon from going into the atmosphere .
we stopped irrigating our soil , as much as we could .
we stopped tilling , so that we could prevent greenhouse gasses from going into the air .
but our oxygen was going down faster than our co2 was going up , which was quite unexpected ,
because we had seen them going in tandem in the test module .
and it was like playing atomic hide-and-seek .
we had lost seven tons of oxygen .
and we had no clue where it was .
and i tell you , when you lose a lot of oxygen -- and our oxygen went down quite far ; it went from 21 percent down to 14.2 percent -- my goodness , do you feel dreadful .
i mean we were dragging ourselves around the biosphere .
and we had sleep apnea at night .
so you 'd wake up gasping with breath , because your blood chemistry has changed .
and that you literally do that . you stop breathing and then you -- -- take a breath and it wakes you up . and it 's very irritating .
and everybody outside thought we were dying .
i mean , the media was making it sound like were were dying .
and i had to call up my mother every other day saying , " no , mum , it 's fine , fine .
we 're not dead . we 're fine . we 're fine . " and the doctor was , in fact , checking us to make sure we were , in fact , fine .
but in fact he was the person who was most susceptible to the oxygen .
and one day he couldn 't add up a line of figures .
and it was time for us to put oxygen in .
and you might think , well , " boy , your life support system was failing you . wasn 't that dreadful ? " yes . in a sense it was terrifying .
except that i knew i could walk out the airlock door at any time , if it really got bad ,
though who was going to say , " i can 't take it anymore ! " ?
not me , that was for sure .
but on the other hand , it was the scientific gold of the project ,
because we could really crank this baby up , as a scientific tool , and see if we could , in fact , find where those seven tons of oxygen had gone .
and we did indeed find it .
and we found it in the concrete .
essentially it had done something very simple .
we had put too much carbon in the soil in the form of compost .
it broke down ; it took oxygen out of the air ;
it put co2 into the air ; and it went into the concrete .
pretty straightforward really .
so at the end of the two years when we came out , we were elated ,
because , in fact , although you might say we had discovered something that was quite " uhh , " when your oxygen is going down , stopped working , essentially , in your life support system , that 's a very bad failure .
except that we knew what it was . and we knew how to fix it .
and nothing else emerged that really was as serious as that .
and we proved the concept , more or less .
people , on the other hand , was a different subject .
we were -- yeah i don 't know that we were fixable .
we all went quite nuts , i will say .
and the day i came out of biosphere 2 , i was thrilled i was going to see all my family and my friends .
for two years i 'd been seeing people through the glass .
and everybody ran up to me .
and i recoiled . they stank !
people stink !
we stink of hairspray and underarm deodorant , and all kinds of stuff .
now we had stuff inside biosphere to keep ourselves clean ,
but nothing with perfume .
and boy do we stink out here .
not only that , but i lost touch of where my food came from .
i had been growing all my own food .
i had no idea what was in my food , where it came from .
i didn 't even recognize half the names in most of the food that i was eating .
in fact , i would stand for hours in the aisles of shops , reading all the names on all of the things .
people must have thought i was nuts .
it was really quite astonishing .
and i slowly lost track of where i was in this big biosphere , in this big biosphere that we all live in .
in biosphere 2 i totally understood that i had a huge impact on my biosphere , everyday , and it had an impact on me , very viscerally , very literally .
so i went about my business : paragon space development corporation , a little firm i started with people while i was in the biosphere , because i had nothing else to do .
and one of the things we did was try to figure out : how small can you make these biospheres ,
and what can you do with them ?
and so we sent one onto the mir space station .
we had one on the shuttle and one on the international space station , for 16 months , where we managed to produce the first organisms to go through complete multiple life cycles in space --
really pushing the envelope of understanding how malleable our life systems are .
and i 'm also proud to announce that you 're getting a sneak preview -- on friday we 're going to announce that we 're actually forming a team to develop a system to grow plants on the moon ,
which is going to be pretty fun .
and the legacy of that is a system that we were designing : an entirely sealed system to grow plants to grow on mars .
and part of that is that we had to model very rapid circulation of co2 and oxygen and water through this plant system .
as a result of that modeling i ended up in all places , in eritrea , in the horn of africa .
eritrea , formerly part of ethiopia , is one of those places that is astonishingly beautiful , incredibly stark , and i have no understanding of how people eke out a living there .
it is so dry .
this is what i saw .
but this is also what i saw .
i saw a company that had taken seawater and sand , and they were growing a kind of crop that will grow on pure salt water without having to treat it .
and it will produce a food crop .
in this case it was oilseed .
it was astonishing . they were also producing mangroves in a plantation .
and the mangroves were providing wood and honey and leaves for the animals , so that they could produce milk and whatnot , like we had in the biosphere .
and all of it was coming from this : shrimp farms .
shrimp farms are a scourge on the earth , frankly , from an environmental point of view .
they pour huge amounts of pollutants into the ocean .
they also pollute their next-door neighbors .
and what this project was doing was taking the effluent of these , and turning them into all of this food .
they were literally turning pollution into abundance for a desert people .
they had created an industrial ecosystem , of a sense .
i was there because i was actually modeling the mangrove portion for a carbon credit program , under the u.n. kyoto protocol system .
and as i was modeling this mangrove swamp , i was thinking to myself , " how do you put a box around this ? " when i 'm modeling a plant in a box , literally , i know where to draw the boundary .
in a mangrove forest like this i have no idea .
well , of course you have to draw the boundary around the whole of the earth .
and understand its interactions with the entire earth .
and put your project in that context .
around the world today we 're seeing an incredible transformation , from what i would call a biocidal species , one that -- whether we intentionally or unintentionally -- have designed our systems to kill life , a lot of the time .
this is in fact , this beautiful photograph , is in fact over the amazon . and here the light green are areas of massive deforestation .
and those beautiful wispy clouds are , in fact , fires , human-made fires .
we 're in the process of transforming from this , to what i would call a biophilic society , one where we learn to nurture society .
now it may not seem like it , but we are .
it is happening all across the world , in every kind of walk of life , and every kind of career and industry that you can think of .
and i think often times people get lost in that .
they go , " but how can i possibly find my way in that ?
it 's such a huge subject . " and i would say that the small stuff counts . it really does .
this is the story of a rake in my backyard .
this was my backyard , very early on , when i bought my property .
and in arizona , of course , everybody puts gravel down .
and they like to keep everything beautifully raked . and they keep all the leaves away .
and on sunday morning the neighbors leaf blower comes out , and i want to throttle them .
it 's a certain type of aesthetic .
we 're very uncomfortable with untidiness .
and i threw away my rake .
and i let all of the leaves fall from the trees that i have on my property .
and over time , essentially what have i been doing ?
i 've been building topsoil .
and so now all the birds come in . and i have hawks .
and i have an oasis .
this is what happens every spring . for six weeks , six to eight weeks , i have this flush of green oasis .
this is actually in a riparian area .
and all of tucson could be like this if everybody would just revolt and throw away the rake .
the small stuff counts .
the industrial revolution -- and prometheus -- has given us this , the ability to light up the world .
it has also given us this , the ability to look at the world from the outside .
now we may not all have another biosphere that we can run to , and compare it to this biosphere .
but we can look at the world , and try to understand where we are in its context , and how we choose to interact with it .
and if you lose where you are in your biosphere , or are perhaps having a difficulty connecting with where you are in the biosphere , i would say to you , take a deep breath .
the yogis had it right .
breath does , in fact , connect us all
in a very literal way .
take a breath now .
and as you breathe , think about what is in your breath .
there perhaps is the co2 from the person sitting next-door to you .
maybe there is a little bit of oxygen from some algae on the beach not far from here .
it also connects us in time .
there may be some carbon in your breath from the dinosaurs .
there could also be carbon that you are exhaling now that will be in the breath of your great-great-great-grandchildren .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / dennis _ vanengelsdorp _ a _ plea _ for _ bees.html
bees are dying in droves . why ? leading apiarist dennis vanengelsdorp looks at the gentle , misunderstood creature 's important place in nature and the mystery behind its alarming disappearance .
animals , disease , food , insects , life , nature
416
dennis vanengelsdorp : a plea for bees
what i 'd like you to do is , just really quickly , is just , sort of , nod to the person on your right , and then nod to the person on your left .
now , chances are that over the last winter , if you had been a beehive , either you or one of the two people you just nodded at would have died .
now , that 's an awful lot of bees .
and this is the second year in a row we have lost over 30 percent of the colonies , or we estimate we 've lost 30 percent of the colonies over the winter .
now , that 's a lot , a lot of bees , and that 's really important .
and most of those losses are because of things we know .
we know that there are these varroa mites that have introduced and caused a lot of losses , and we also have this new phenomenon , which i talked about last year , colony collapse disorder .
and here we see a picture on top of a hill in central valley last december .
and below , you can see all these out yards , or temporary yards , where the colonies are brought in until february , and then they 're shipped out to the almonds .
and one documentary writer , who was here and looked at this two months after i was here , described this not as beehives but as a graveyard , with these empty white boxes with no bees left in them .
now , i 'm going to sum up a year 's worth of work in two sentences to say that we have been trying to figure out what the cause of this is .
and what we know is that it 's as if the bees have caught a flu .
and this flu has wiped through the population of bees .
in some cases , and in fact in most cases in one year , this flu was caused by a new virus to us , or newly identified by us , called israeli acute paralysis virus .
it was called that because a guy in israel first found it , and he now regrets profoundly calling it that disease , because , of course , there 's the implication .
but we think this virus is pretty ubiquitous .
it 's also pretty clear that the bees sometimes catch other viruses or other flus , and so the question we 're still struggling with , and the question that keeps us up at night , is why have the bees suddenly become so susceptible to this flu , and why are they so susceptible to these other diseases ?
and we don 't have the answer to that yet , and we spend a lot of time trying to figure that out .
we think perhaps it 's a combination of factors .
we know from the work of a very large and dynamic working team that , you know , we 're finding a lot of different pesticides in the hive , and surprisingly , sometimes the healthiest hives have the most pesticides . and so we discover all these very strange things that we can 't begin to understand .
and so this opens up the whole idea of looking at colony health .
now of course , if you lose a lot of colonies , beekeepers can replace them very quickly .
and that 's why we 've been able to recover from a lot of loss .
if we lost one in every three cows in the winter , you know , the national guard would be out .
but what beekeepers can do is , if they have one surviving colony , they can split that colony in two .
and then the one half that doesn 't have a queen , they can buy a queen .
it comes in the mail ; it can come from australia or hawaii or florida , and you can introduce that queen .
and in fact , america was the first country that ever did mail-delivery queens and in fact , it 's part of the postal code that you have to deliver queens by mail in order to make sure that we have enough bees in this country .
if you don 't just want a queen , you can buy , actually , a three-pound package of bees , which comes in the mail , and of course , the postal office is always very concerned when they get , you know , your three-pound packages of bees .
and you can install this in your hive and replace that dead-out .
so it means that beekeepers are very good at replacing dead-outs , and so they 've been able to cover those losses .
so even though we 've lost 30 percent of the colonies every year , the same number of colonies have existed in the country , at about 2.4 million colonies .
now , those losses are tragic on many fronts , and one of those fronts is for the beekeeper .
and it 's really important to talk about beekeepers first , because beekeepers are among the most fascinating people you 'll ever meet .
if this was a group of beekeepers , you would have everyone from the card-carrying nra member who 's , you know , live free or die , to the , you know , the self-expressed quirky san francisco backyard pig farmer .
and you get all of these people in the same room , and they 're all engaged and they 're getting along , and they 're all there because of the passion for bees .
now , there 's another part of that community which are the commercial beekeepers , the ones who make their livelihood from beekeeping alone .
and these tend to be some of the most independent , tenacious , intuitive , you know , inventive people you will ever meet .
they 're just fascinating . and they 're like that all over the world .
i had the privilege of working in haiti just for two weeks earlier this year .
and haiti , if you 've ever been there , is just a tragedy .
i mean , there may be 100 explanations for why haiti is the impoverished nation it is , but there is no excuse to see that sort of squalor .
but you meet this beekeeper , and i met this beekeeper here , and he is one of the most knowledgeable beekeepers i 've ever met .
no formal education , but very knowledgeable .
we needed beeswax for a project we were working on ; he was so capable , he was able to render the nicest block of beeswax i have ever seen from cow dung , tin cans and his veil , which he used as a screening , right in this meadow . and so that ingenuity is inspiring .
we also have dave hackenberg , who is the poster child of ccd .
he 's the one who first identified this condition and raised the alarm bells .
and he has a history of these trucks , and he 's moved these bees up and down the coast .
and a lot of people talk about trucks and moving bees , and that being bad , but we 've done that for thousands of years .
the ancient egyptians used to move bees up and down the nile on rafts , so this idea of a movable bee force is not new at all .
and one of our real worries with colony collapse disorder is the fact that it costs so much money to replace those dead-out colonies .
and you can do that one year in a row , you may be able to do it two years in a row .
but if you 're losing 50 percent to 80 percent of your colonies , you can 't survive three years in a row . and we 're really worried about losing this segment of our industry .
and that 's important for many fronts , and one of them is because of that culture that 's in agriculture .
and these migratory beekeepers are the last nomads of america .
you know , they pick up their hives ; they move their families once or twice in a year .
and if you look at florida , in dade city , florida , that 's where all the pennsylvania beekeepers go .
and then 20 miles down the road is groveland , and that 's where all the wisconsin beekeepers go .
and if you 're ever in central valley in february , you go to this cafe at 10 o 'clock in the morning , kathy and kate 's .
and that 's where all the beekeepers come after a night of moving bees into the almond groves .
they all have their breakfast and complain about everyone right there . and it 's a great experience , and i really encourage you to drop in at that diner during that time , because that 's quite essential american experience .
and we see these families , these nomadic families , you know , father to son , father to son , and these guys are hurting .
and they 're not people who like to ask for help , although they are the most helpful people ever .
if there 's one guy who loses all his bees because of a truck overhaul , everyone pitches in and gives 20 hives to help him replace those lost colonies .
and so , it 's a very dynamic , and i think , historic and exciting community to be involved with .
of course , the real importance for bees is not the honey .
and although i highly encourage you , all use honey .
i mean , it 's the most ethical sweetener , and you know , it 's a dynamic and fun sweetener .
but we estimate that about one in three bites of food we eat is directly or indirectly pollinated by honeybees .
now , i want to just illustrate that in the fact that if we look at the breakfast i had yesterday morning -- a little cranberry juice , some fruits , some granola , i should have had whole wheat bread , i realized , but you know , jam on my wonderbread , and some coffee -- and had we taken out all those ingredients , -- except for the almonds i wasn 't going to pick out from the granola -- if we had taken out all those ingredients the bees had indirectly or directly pollinated , we wouldn 't have much on our plate .
so if we did not have bees , it 's not like we would starve , but clearly our diet would be diminished .
it 's said that for bees , the flower is the fountain of life , and for flowers bees are the messengers of love .
and that 's a really great expression , because really , bees are the sex workers for flowers . they are , you know -- they get paid for their services .
they get paid by pollen and nectar , to move that male sperm , the pollen , from flower to flower . and there are flowers that are self-infertile . that means they can 't -- the pollen in their bloom can 't fertilize themselves .
so in an apple orchard , for instance , you 'll have rows of 10 apples of one variety , and then you have another apple tree that 's a different type of pollen .
and bees are very faithful .
when they 're out pollinating or gathering pollen from one flower , they stay to that crop exclusively , in order to help generate .
and of course , they 're made to carry this pollen .
they build up a static electric charge and the pollen jumps on them and helps spread that pollen from bloom to bloom .
however , honeybees are a minority .
honeybees are not native to america ; they were introduced with the colonialists .
and there are actually more species of bees than there are mammals and birds combined .
in pennsylvania alone , we have been surveying bees for 150 years , and very intensely in the last three years .
we have identified over 400 species of bees in pennsylvania .
thirty-two species have not been identified or found in the state since 1950 .
now , that could be because we haven 't been sampling right , but it does , i think , suggest that something 's wrong with the pollinator force . and these bees are fascinating .
we have bumblebees on the top .
and bumblebees are what we call eusocial : they 're not truly social , because only the queen is , over winter .
we also have the sweat bees , and these are little gems flying around .
they 're like tiny little flies and they fly around .
and then you have another type of bee , which we call kleptoparasites , which is a very fancy way of saying , bad-minded , murdering -- what 's the word i 'm looking for ? murdering -- audience : bee ?
dennis vanengelsdorp : bee . okay , thanks .
what these bees do is , they sit there . these solitary bees , they drill a hole in the ground or drill a hole in a branch , and they collect pollen and make it into a ball , and they lay an egg on it .
well , these bees hang out at that hole , and they wait for that mother to fly away , they go in , eat the egg , and lay their own egg there . so they don 't do any work .
and so , in fact , if you know you have these kleptoparasitic bees , you know that your environment is healthy , because they 're top-of-the-food-chain bees .
and in fact , there is now a red list of pollinators that we 're worried have disappeared , and on top of that list are a lot of these kleptoparasites , but also these bumblebees .
and in fact , if you guys live on the west coast , go to these websites here , and they 're really looking for people to look for some of these bumblebees , because we think some have gone extinct . or some , the population has declined .
and so it 's not just honeybees that are in trouble , but we don 't understand these native pollinators or all those other parts of our community .
and of course , bees are not the only important factor here .
there are other animals that pollinate , like bats , and bats are in trouble too .
and i 'm glad i 'm a bee man and not a bat man , because there 's no money to research the bat problems .
and bats are dying at an extraordinary rate .
white-nose syndrome has wiped out populations of bats .
if there 's a cave in new york that had 15,000 bats in it , and there are 1,000 left . that 's like san francisco becoming the population of half of this county in three years .
and so that 's incredible . and there 's no money to do that . but i 'm glad to say that i think we know the cause of all these conditions , and that cause is ndd : nature deficit disorder .
and that is that i think that what we have in our society is , we forgot our connection with nature .
and i think if we reconnect to nature , we 'll be able to have the resources and that interest to solve these problems .
and i think that there is an easy cure for ndd .
and that is , make meadows and not lawns .
and i think we have lost our connection , and this is a wonderful way of reconnecting to our environment .
i 've had the privilege of living by a meadow for the last little while , and it is terribly engaging .
and if we look at the history of lawns , it 's actually rather tragic .
it used to be , two , three hundred years ago , that a lawn was a symbol of prestige , and so it was only the very rich that could keep these green actually , deserts : they 're totally sterile .
americans spent , in 2001 -- 11 percent of all pesticide use was done on lawns .
five percent of our greenhouse gases are produced by mowing our lawns .
and so it 's incredible the amount of resources we 've spent keeping our lawns , which are these useless biosystems .
and so we need to rethink this idea .
in fact , you know , the white house used to have sheep in front in order to help fund the war effort in world war i , which probably is not a bad idea ; it wouldn 't be a bad idea .
i want to say this not because i 'm opposed completely to mowing lawns .
i think that there is perhaps some advantage to keeping lawns at a limited scale , and i think we 're encouraged to do that .
but i also want to reinforce some of the ideas we 've heard here , because having a meadow or living by a meadow is transformational .
that it is amazing that connection we can have with what 's there .
these milkweed plants have grown up in my meadow over the last four years . add to watch the different plants , or insects , that come to these flowers , to watch that -- and we 've heard about , you know , this relationship you can have with wine , this companion you can have as it matures and as it has these different fragrances .
and this is a companion , and this is a relationship that never dries up .
you never run out of that companion as you drink this wine , too .
and i encourage you to look at that .
now , not all of us have meadows , or lawns that we can convert , and so you can always , of course , grow a meadow in a pot .
bees apparently , can be the gateway to , you know , other things .
so i 'm not saying that you should plant a meadow of pot , but a pot in a meadow .
but you can also have this great community of city or building-top beekeepers , these beekeepers that live -- this is in paris where these beekeepers live .
and everyone should open a beehive , because it is the most amazing , incredible thing .
and if we want to cure ourselves of ndd , or nature deficit disorder , i think this is a great way of doing it .
get a beehive and grow a meadow , and watch that life come back into your life .
and so with that , i think that what we can do , if we do this , we can make sure that our future -- our more perfect future -- includes beekeepers and it includes bees and it includes those meadows .
and that journey -- that journey of transformation that occurs as you grow your meadow and as you keep your bees or you watch those native bees there -- is an extremely exciting one .
and i hope that you experience it and i hope you tell me about it one day .
so thank you very much for being here . thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / a _ whistleblower _ you _ haven _ t _ heard.html
at tedxrotterdam , world champion whistler geert chatrou performs the whimsical " eleonora " by a. honhoff , and his own " fete de la belle . " in a fascinating interlude , he talks about what brought him to the craft .
entertainment , live music , music , performance
1073
a whistleblower you haven 't heard
thank you . thank you very much .
that was whistling .
i 'm trying to do this in english .
what is a chubby , curly-haired guy from holland -- why is he whistling ?
well actually , i 've [ been ] whistling since the age of four , about four .
my dad was always whistling around the house , and i just thought that 's part of communication in my family .
so i whistled along with him .
and actually , till i was 34 , i always annoyed and irritated people with whistling ,
because , to be honest , my whistling is a kind of deviant behavior .
i whistled alone . i whistled in the classroom . i whistled on [ my ] bike . i whistled everywhere .
and i also whistled at a christmas eve party with my family-in-law .
and they had some , in my opinion , terrible christmas music .
and when i hear music that i don 't like , i try to make it better .
so " rudolph the red-nosed reindeer " -- you know it ?
but it can also sound like this .
but during a christmas party -- at dinner actually -- it 's very annoying .
so my sister-in-law asked me a few times , " please stop whistling . "
and i just couldn 't .
and at one point -- and i had some wine , i have to admit that -- at one point i said , " if there was a contest , i would join . "
and two weeks later i received a text message : " you 're going to america . "
so , okay , i 'm going to america .
i would love to , but why ?
so i immediately called her up , of course .
she googled , and she found this world whistling championship in america , of course .
she didn 't expect me to go there .
and i would have lost my face .
i don 't know if that 's correct english .
but the dutch people here will understand what i mean .
i lost my face .
and she thought , " he will never go there . "
but actually i did .
so i went to louisburg , north carolina , southeast united states ,
and i entered the world of whistling .
and i also entered the world championship , and i won there in 2004 .
that was great fun , of course .
and to defend my title -- like judokas do and sportsmen -- i thought , well let 's go back in 2005 , and i won again .
then i couldn 't participate for a few years .
and in 2008 i entered again in japan , tokyo , and i won again .
so what happened now is i 'm standing here in rotterdam , in the beautiful city , on a big stage , and i 'm talking about whistling .
and actually i earn my money whistling at the moment .
so i quit my day job as a nurse .
and i try to live my dream -- well , actually , it was never my dream , but it sounds so good .
okay , i 'm not the only one whistling here .
you say , " huh , what do you mean ? "
well actually , you are going to whistle along .
and then always the same thing happens : people are watching each other and think , " oh , my god .
why ? can i go away ? "
no , you can 't .
actually it 's very simple .
the track that i will whistle is called " fete de la belle . "
it 's about 80 minutes long .
no , no , no . it 's four minutes long .
and i want to first rehearse with you your whistling .
so i whistle the tone .
sorry . i forgot one thing .
you whistle the same tone as me .
i heard a wide variety of tones .
this is very promising .
this is very promising .
i 'll ask the technicians to start the music .
and if it 's started , i just point where you whistle along ,
and we will see what happens .
oh , hah .
i 'm so sorry , technicians .
i 'm so used to that .
i start it myself .
okay , here it is .
okay . it 's easy , isn 't it ?
now comes the solo . i propose i do that myself .
max westerman : geert chatrou , the world champion [ of ] whistling .
geert chatrou : thank you . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / stefano _ mancuso _ the _ roots _ of _ plant _ intelligence.html
plants behave in some oddly intelligent ways : fighting predators , maximizing food opportunities ... but can we think of them as actually having a form of intelligence of their own ? italian botanist stefano mancuso presents intriguing evidence .
biology , collaboration , science
976
stefano mancuso : the roots of plant intelligence
sometimes i go browsing [ through ] a very old magazine .
i found this observation test about the story of the ark .
and the artist that drew this observation test did some errors , had some mistakes --
there are more or less 12 mistakes .
some of them are very easy .
there is a funnel , an aerial part , a lamp and clockwork key on the ark .
some of them are about the animals , the number .
but there is a much more fundamental mistake in the overall story of the ark that 's not reported here .
and this problem is : where are the plants ?
so now we have god that is going to submerge earth permanently or at least for a very long period , and no one is taking care of plants .
noah needed to take two of every kind of bird , of every kind of animal , of every kind of creature that moves , but no mention about plants .
why ?
in another part of the same story , all the living creatures are just the living creatures that came out from the ark , so birds , livestock and wild animals .
plants are not living creatures --
this is the point .
that is a point that is not coming out from the bible , but it 's something that really accompanied humanity .
let 's have a look at this nice code that is coming from a renaissance book .
here we have the description of the order of nature .
it 's a nice description because it 's starting from left -- you have the stones -- immediately after the stones , the plants that are just able to live .
we have the animals that are able to live and to sense , and on the top of the pyramid , there is the man .
this is not the common man .
the " homo studiosus " -- the studying man .
this is quite comforting for people like me -- i 'm a professor -- this to be over there on the top of creation .
but it 's something completely wrong .
you know very well about professors .
but it 's also wrong about plants , because plants are not just able to live ;
they are able to sense .
they are much more sophisticated in sensing than animals .
just to give you an example , every single root apex is able to detect and to monitor concurrently and continuously at least 15 different chemical and physical parameters .
and they also are able to show and to exhibit such a wonderful and complex behavior that can be described just with the term of intelligence .
well , but this is something -- this underestimation of plants is something that is always with us .
let 's have a look at this short movie now .
we have david attenborough .
now david attenborough is really a plant lover ;
he did some of the most beautiful movies about plant behavior .
now , when he speaks about plants , everything is correct .
when he speaks about animals , [ he ] tends to remove the fact that plants exist .
the blue whale , the biggest creature that exists on the planet --
that is wrong , completely wrong .
the blue whale , it 's a dwarf if compared with the real biggest creature that exists on the planet -- that is , this wonderful , magnificent sequoiadendron giganteum .
and this is a living organism that has a mass of at least 2,000 tons .
now , the story that plants are some low-level organisms has been formalized many times ago by aristotle , that in " de anima " -- that is a very influential book for the western civilization -- wrote that the plants are on the edge between living and not living .
they have just a kind of very low-level soul .
it 's called the vegetative soul , because they lack movement , and so they don 't need to sense .
let 's see .
okay , some of the movements of the plants are very well-known .
this is a very fast movement .
this is a dionaea , a venus fly trap hunting snails --
sorry for the snail .
this has been something that has been refused for centuries , despite the evidence .
no one can say that the plants were able to eat an animal , because it was against the order of nature .
but plants are also able to show a lot of movement .
some of them are very well known , like the flowering .
it 's just a question to use some techniques like the time lapse .
some of them are much more sophisticated .
look at this young bean that is moving to catch the light every time .
and it 's really so graceful ;
it 's like a dancing angel .
they are also able to play --
they are really playing .
these are young sunflowers , and what they are doing cannot be described with any other terms than playing .
they are training themselves , as many young animals do , to the adult life where they will be called to track the sun all the day .
they are able to respond to gravity , of course , so the shoots are growing against the vector of gravity and the roots toward the vector of gravity .
but they are also able to sleep .
this is one , mimosa pudica .
so during the night , they curl the leaves and reduce the movement , and during the day , you have the opening of the leaves -- there is much more movement .
this is interesting because this sleeping machinery , it 's perfectly conserved .
it 's the same in plants , in insects and in animals .
and so if you need to study this sleeping problem , it 's easy to study on plants , for example , than in animals and it 's much more easy even ethically .
it 's a kind of vegetarian experimentation .
plants are even able to communicate --
they are extraordinary communicators .
they communicate with other plants .
they are able to distinguish kin and non-kin .
they communicate with plants of other species and they communicate with animals by producing chemical volatiles , for example , during the pollination .
now with the pollination , it 's a very serious issue for plants , because they move the pollen from one flower to the other , yet they cannot move from one flower to the other .
so they need a vector -- and this vector , it 's normally an animal .
many insects have been used by plants as vectors for the transport of the pollination , but not just insects ; even birds , reptiles , and mammals like bats rats are normally used for the transportation of the pollen .
this is a serious business .
we have the plants that are giving to the animals a kind of sweet substance -- very energizing -- having in change this transportation of the pollen .
but some plants are manipulating animals , like in the case of orchids that promise sex and nectar and give in change nothing for the transportation of the pollen .
now , there is a big problem behind all this behavior that we have seen .
how is it possible to do this without a brain ?
we need to wait until 1880 , when this big man , charles darwin , publishes a wonderful , astonishing book that starts a revolution .
the title is " the power of movement in plants . "
no one was allowed to speak about movement in plants before charles darwin .
in his book , assisted by his son , francis -- who was the first professor of plant physiology in the world , in cambridge -- they took into consideration every single movement for 500 pages .
and in the last paragraph of the book , it 's a kind of stylistic mark , because normally charles darwin stored , in the last paragraph of a book , the most important message .
he wrote that , " it 's hardly an exaggeration to say that the tip of the radical acts like the brain of one of the lower animals . "
this is not a metaphor .
he wrote some very interesting letters to one of his friends who was j.d. hooker , or at that time , president of the royal society , so the maximum scientific authority in britain speaking about the brain in the plants .
now , this is a root apex growing against a slope .
so you can recognize this kind of movement , the same movement that worms , snakes and every animal that are moving on the ground without legs is able to display .
and it 's not an easy movement because , to have this kind of movement , you need to move different regions of the root and to synchronize these different regions without having a brain .
so we studied the root apex and we found that there is a specific region that is here , depicted in blue -- that is called the " transition zone . "
and this region , it 's a very small region --
it 's less than one millimeter .
and in this small region you have the highest consumption of oxygen in the plants and more important , you have these kinds of signals here .
the signals that you are seeing here are action potential , are the same signals that the neurons of my brain , of our brain , use to exchange information .
now we know that a root apex has just a few hundred cells that show this kind of feature , but we know how big the root apparatus of a small plant , like a plant of rye .
we have almost 14 million roots .
we have 11 and a half million root apex and a total length of 600 or more kilometers and a very high surface area .
now let 's imagine that each single root apex is working in network with all the others .
here were have on the left , the internet and on the right , the root apparatus .
they work in the same way .
they are a network of small computing machines , working in networks .
and why are they so similar ?
because they evolved for the same reason : to survive predation .
they work in the same way .
so you can remove 90 percent of the root apparatus and the plants [ continue ] to work .
you can remove 90 percent of the internet and it is [ continuing ] to work .
so , a suggestion for the people working with networks : plants are able to give you good suggestions about how to evolve networks .
and another possibility is a technological possibility .
let 's imagine that we can build robots and robots that are inspired by plants .
until now , the man was inspired just by man or the animals in producing a robot .
we have the animaloid -- and the normal robots inspired by animals , insectoid , so on .
we have the androids that are inspired by man .
but why have we not any plantoid ?
well , if you want to fly , it 's good that you look at birds -- to be inspired by birds .
but if you want to explore soils , or if you want to colonize new territory , to best thing that you can do is to be inspired by plants that are masters in doing this .
we have another possibility we are working [ on ] in our lab , [ which ] is to build hybrids .
it 's much more easy to build hybrids .
hybrid means it 's something that 's half living and half machine .
it 's much more easy to work with plants than with animals .
they have computing power ,
they have electrical signals .
the connection with the machine is much more easy , much more even ethically possible .
and these are three possibilities that we are working on to build hybrids , driven by algae or by the leaves at the end , by the most , most powerful parts of the plants , by the roots .
well , thank you for your attention .
and before i finish , i would like to reassure that no snails were harmed in making this presentation .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / charlie _ todd _ the _ shared _ experience _ of _ absurdity.html
charlie todd causes bizarre , hilarious , and unexpected public scenes : seventy synchronized dancers in storefront windows , " ghostbusters " running through the new york public library , and the annual no-pants subway ride . at tedxbloomington he shows how his group , improv everywhere , uses these scenes to bring people together .
comedy , community , culture , entertainment
1269
charlie todd : the shared experience of absurdity
i started improv everywhere about 10 years ago when i moved to new york city with an interest in acting and comedy .
because i was new to the city , i didn 't have access to a stage , so i decided to create my own in public places .
so the first project we 're going to take a look at is the very first no pants subway ride . now this took place in january of 2002 .
and this woman is the star of the video .
she doesn 't know she 's being filmed .
she 's being filmed with a hidden camera .
this is on the 6 train in new york city .
and this is the first stop along the line .
these are two danish guys who come out and sit down next to the hidden camera .
and that 's me right there in a brown coat .
it 's about 30 degrees outside .
i 'm wearing a hat . i 'm wearing a scarf .
and the girl 's going to notice me right here .
and as you 'll see now , i 'm not wearing pants .
so at this point -- at this point she 's noticed me , but in new york there 's weirdos on any given train car .
one person 's not that unusual .
she goes back to reading her book , which is unfortunately titled " rape . "
so she 's noticed the unusual thing , but she 's gone back to her normal life .
now in the meantime , i have six friends who are waiting at the next six consecutive stops in their underwear as well .
they 're going to be entering this car one by one .
we 'll act as though we don 't know each other .
and we 'll act as if it 's just an unfortunate mistake we 've made , forgetting our pants on this cold january day .
so at this point , she decides to put the rape book away .
and she decides to be a little bit more aware of her surroundings .
now in the meantime , the two danish guys to the left of the camera , they 're cracking up .
they think this is the funniest thing they 've ever seen before .
and watch her make eye contact with them right about now .
and i love that moment in this video , because before it became a shared experience , it was something that was maybe a little bit scary , or something that was at least confusing to her .
and then once it became a shared experience , it was funny and something that she could laugh at .
so the train is now pulling into the third stop along the 6 line .
so the video won 't show everything .
this goes on for another four stops .
a total of seven guys enter anonymously in their underwear .
at the eighth stop , a girl came in with a giant duffel bag and announced she had pants for sale for a dollar -- like you might sell batteries or candy on the train .
we all very matter of factly bought a pair of pants , put them on and said , " thank you . that 's exactly what i needed today , " and then exited without revealing what had happened and went in all different directions .
thank you .
so that 's a still from the video there .
and i love that girl 's reaction so much .
and watching that videotape later that day inspired me to keep doing what i do .
and really one of the points of improv everywhere is to cause a scene in a public place that is a positive experience for other people .
it 's a prank , but it 's a prank that gives somebody a great story to tell .
and her reaction inspired me to do a second annual no pants subway ride .
and we 've continued to do it every year .
this january , we did the 10th annual no pants subway ride where a diverse group of 3,500 people rode the train in their underwear in new york -- almost every single train line in the city .
and also in 50 other cities around the world , people participated .
as i started taking improv class at the upright citizens brigade theater and meeting other creative people and other performers and comedians , i started amassing a mailing list of people who wanted to do these types of projects .
so i could do more large-scale projects .
well one day i was walking through union square , and i saw this building , which had just been built in 2005 .
and there was a girl in one of the windows and she was dancing .
and it was very peculiar , because it was dark out , but she was back-lit with florescent lighting , and she was very much onstage , and i couldn 't figure out why she was doing it .
after about 15 seconds , her friend appeared -- she had been hiding behind a display -- and they laughed and hugged each other and ran away .
so it seemed like maybe she had been dared to do this .
so i got inspired by that .
looking at the entire facade -- there were 70 total windows -- and i knew what i had to do .
so this project is called look up more . we had 70 actors dress in black .
this was completely unauthorized .
we didn 't let the stores know we were coming .
and i stood in the park giving signals .
the first signal was for everybody to hold up these four-foot tall letters that spelled out " look up more , " the name of the project .
the second signal was for everybody to do jumping jacks together .
you 'll see that start right here .
and then we had dancing . we had everyone dance .
and then we had dance solos where only one person would dance and everybody would point to them .
so then i gave a new hand signal , which signaled the next soloist down below in forever 21 , and he danced .
there were several other activities .
we had people jumping up and down , people dropping to the ground .
and i was standing just anonymously in a sweatshirt , putting my hand on and off of a trashcan to signal the advancement .
and because it was in union square park , right by a subway station , there were hundreds of people by the end who stopped and looked up and watched what we were doing .
there 's a better photo of it .
so that particular event was inspired by a moment that i happened to stumble upon .
the next project i want to show was given to me in an email from a stranger .
a high school kid in texas wrote me in 2006 and said , " you should get as many people as possible to put on blue polo shirts and khaki pants and go into a best buy and stand around . "
so i wrote this high school kid back immediately , and i said , " yes , you are correct .
i think i 'll try to do that this weekend . thank you . "
so here 's the video .
so again , this is 2005 .
this is the best buy in new york city .
we had about 80 people show up to participate , entering one-by-one .
there was an eight year-old girl , a 10 year-old girl .
there was also a 65 year-old man who participated .
so a very diverse group of people .
and i told people , " don 't work . don 't actually do work .
but also , don 't shop .
just stand around and don 't face products . "
now you can see the regular employees by the ones that have the yellow tags on their shirt .
everybody else is one of our actors .
the lower level employees thought it was very funny .
and in fact , several of them went to go get their camera from the break room and took photos with us .
a lot of them made jokes about trying to get us to go to the back to get heavy television sets for customers .
the managers and the security guards , on the other hand , did not find it particularly funny .
you can see them in this footage .
they 're wearing either a yellow shirt or a black shirt .
and we were there probably 10 minutes before the managers decided to dial 911 .
so they started running around telling everybody the cops were coming , watch out , the cops were coming .
and you can see the cops in this footage right here .
that 's a cop wearing black right there , being filmed with a hidden camera .
ultimately , the police had to inform best buy management that it was not , in fact , illegal to wear a blue polo shirt and khaki pants .
thank you .
so we had been there for 20 minutes ; we were happy to exit the store .
one thing the managers were trying to do was to track down our cameras .
and they caught a couple of my guys who had hidden cameras in duffel bags .
but the one camera guy they never caught was the guy that went in just with a blank tape and went over to the best buy camera department and just put his tape in one of their cameras and pretended to shop .
so i like that concept of using their own technology against them .
i think our best projects are ones that are site specific and happen at a particular place for a reason .
and one morning , i was riding the subway . i had to make a transfer at the 53rd st. stop where there are these two giant escalators .
and it 's a very depressing place to be in the morning , it 's very crowded .
so i decided to try and stage something that could make it as happy as possible for one morning .
so this was in the winter of 2009 -- 8 : 30 in the morning .
it 's morning rush hour .
it 's very cold outside .
people are coming in from queens , transferring from the e train to the 6 train .
and they 're going up these giant escalators on their way to their jobs .
thank you . so there 's a photograph that illustrates it a little bit better .
he gave 2,000 high fives that day , and he washed his hands before and afterward and did not get sick .
and that was done also without permission , although no one seemed to care .
so i 'd say over the years , one of the most common criticisms i see of improv everywhere left anonymously on youtube comments is : " these people have too much time on their hands . "
and you know , not everybody 's going to like everything you do , and i 've certainly developed a thick skin thanks to internet comments , but that one 's always bothered me , because we don 't have too much time on our hands .
the participants at improv everywhere events have just as much leisure time as any other new yorkers , they just occasionally choose to spend it in an unusual way .
you know , every saturday and sunday , hundreds of thousands of people each fall gather in football stadiums to watch games .
and i 've never seen anybody comment , looking at a football game , saying , " all those people in the stands , they have too much time on their hands . " and of course they don 't .
it 's a perfectly wonderful way to spent a weekend afternoon , watching a football game in a stadium .
but i think it 's also a perfectly valid way to spend an afternoon freezing in place with 200 people in the grand central terminal or dressing up like a ghostbuster and running through the new york public library .
or listening to the same mp3 as 3,000 other people and dancing silently in a park , or bursting into song in a grocery store as part of a spontaneous musical , or diving into the ocean in coney island wearing formal attire .
you know , as kids , we 're taught to play .
and we 're never given a reason why we should play .
it 's just acceptable that play is a good thing .
and i think that 's sort of the point of improv everywhere .
it 's that there is no point and that there doesn 't have to be a point .
we don 't need a reason .
as long as it 's fun and it seems like it 's going to be a funny idea and it seems like the people who witness it will also have a fun time , then that 's enough for us .
and i think , as adults , we need to learn that there 's no right or wrong way to play .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / sonaar _ luthra _ meet _ the _ water _ canary.html
after a crisis , how can we tell if water is safe to drink ? current tests are slow and complex , and the delay can be deadly , as in the cholera outbreak after haiti 's earthquake in 2010 . ted fellow sonaar luthra previews his design for a simple tool that quickly tests water for safety -- the water canary .
design , development , technology , water
1326
sonaar luthra : meet the water canary
cholera was reported in haiti for the first time in over 50 years last october .
