you can see , it 's always reacting .
this is not a dead body . this is a body who basically , in this particular case , feels the force and tries to protect its head .
only , i think it 's quite a big blow again .
you feel kind of sorry for that thing , and we 've seen it so many times now that we don 't really care any more .
there are much worse videos than this , by the way , which i have taken out , but ...
now , here 's another one .
what people wanted as a behavior was to have an explosion , a strong force applied to the character , and have the character react to it in midair .
so that you don 't have a character that looks limp , but actually a character that you can use in an action film straight away , that looks kind of alive in midair as well .
so this character is going to be hit by a force , it 's going to realize it 's in the air , and it 's going to try and , well , stick out its arm in the direction where it 's landing .
that 's one angle ; here 's another angle .
we now think that the realism we 're achieving with this is good enough to be used in films .
and let 's just have a look at a slightly different visualization .
this is something i just got last night from an animation studio in london , who are using our software and experimenting with it right now .
so this is exactly the same behavior that you saw , but in a slightly better rendered version .
so if you look at the character carefully , you see there are lots of body movements going on , none of which you have to animate like in the old days .
animators had to actually animate them .
this is all happening automatically in the simulation .
this is a slightly different angle , and again a slow motion version of this .
this is incredibly quick . this is happening in real time .
you can run this simulation in real time , in front of your eyes , change it , if you want to , and you get the animation straight out of it .
at the moment , doing something like this by hand would take you probably a couple of days .
this is another behavior they requested .
i 'm not quite sure why , but we 've done it anyway .
it 's a very simple behavior that shows you the power of this approach .
in this case , the character 's hands are fixed to a particular point in space , and all we 've told the character to do is to struggle .
and it looks organic . it looks realistic .
you feel kind of sorry for the guy .
it 's even worse -- and that is another video i just got last night -- if you render that a bit more realistically .
now , i 'm showing this to you just to show you how organic it actually can feel , how realistic it can look .
and this is all a physical simulation of the body , using ai to drive virtual muscles in that body .
now , one thing which we did for a laugh was to create a slightly more complex stunt scene , and one of the most famous stunts is the one where james bond jumps off a dam in switzerland and then is caught by a bungee .
got a very short clip here .
yes , you can just about see it here .
in this case , they were using a real stunt man . it was a very dangerous stunt .
it was just voted , i think in the sunday times , as one of the most impressive stunts .
now , we 've just tried and -- looked at our character and asked ourselves , " can we do that ourselves as well ? "
can we use the physical simulation of the character , use artificial intelligence , put that artificial intelligence into the character , drive virtual muscles , simulate the way he jumps off the dam , and then skydive afterwards , and have him caught by a bungee afterwards ?
we did that . it took about altogether just two hours , pretty much , to create the simulation .
and that 's what it looks like , here .
now , this could do with a bit more work . it 's still very early stages , and we pretty much just did this for a laugh , just to see what we 'd get out of it .
but what we found over the past few months is that this approach -- that we 're pretty much standard upon -- is incredibly powerful .
we are ourselves surprised what you actually get out of the simulations .
there 's very often very surprising behavior that you didn 't predict before .
there 's so many things we can do with this right now .
the first thing , as i said , is going to be virtual stuntmen .
several studios are using this software now to produce virtual stuntmen , and they 're going to hit the screen quite soon , actually , for some major productions .
the second thing is video games .
with this technology , video games will look different and they will feel very different .
for the first time , you 'll have actors that really feel very interactive , that have real bodies that really react .
i think that 's going to be incredibly exciting .
probably starting with sports games , which are going to become much more interactive .
but i particularly am really excited about using this technology in online worlds , like there , for example , that tom melcher has shown us .
the degree of interactivity you 're going to get is totally different , i think , from what you 're getting right now .
a third thing we are looking at and very interested in is simulation .
we 've been approached by several simulation companies , but one project we 're particularly excited about , which we 're starting next month , is to use our technology -- and in particular , the walking technology -- to help aid surgeons who work on children with cerebral palsy , to predict the outcome of operations on these children .
as you probably know , it 's very difficult to predict what the outcome of an operation is if you try and correct the gait .
the classic quote is , i think , it 's unpredictable at best , is what people think right now , is the outcome .
now , what we want to do with our software is allow our surgeons to have a tool .
we 're going to simulate the gait of a particular child and the surgeon can then work on that simulation and try out different ways to improve that gait , before he actually commits to an actual surgery .
that 's one project we 're particularly excited about , and that 's going to start next month .
just finally , this is only just the beginning .
we can only do several behaviors right now .
the ai isn 't good enough to simulate a full human body .
the body yes , but not all the motor skills that we have .
and , i think , we 're only there if we can have something like ballet dancing .
right now , we don 't have that but i 'm very sure that we will be able to do that at some stage .
we do have one unintentional dancer actually , the last thing i 'm going to show you .
this was an ai contour that was produced and evolved -- half-evolved , i should say -- to produce balance , basically .
so , you kick the guy and the guy 's supposed to counter-balance .
that 's what we thought was going to come out of this .
but this is what emerged out of it , in the end .
bizarrely , this thing doesn 't have a head . i 'm not quite sure why .
so , this was not something we actually put in there .
he just started to create that dance himself .
he 's actually a better dancer than i am , i have to say .
and what you see after a while -- i think he even goes into a climax right at the end .
so , that all happened automatically . we didn 't put that in there .
that 's just the simulation creating this itself , basically .
so it 's just -- thanks .
not quite john travolta yet , but we 're working on that as well ,
thanks .
ca : incredible . that was really incredible .
tr : thanks .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / raghava _ kk _ shake _ up _ your _ story.html
artist raghava kk demos his new children 's book for ipad with a fun feature : when you shake it , the story -- and your perspective -- changes . in this charming short talk , he invites all of us to shake up our perspective a little bit .
arts , book , creativity , design , entertainment , technology
1219
raghava kk : shake up your story
hi everyone .
i 'm an artist and a dad -- second time around .
thank you .
and i want to share with you my latest art project .
it 's a children 's book for the ipad .
it 's a little quirky and silly .
it 's called " pop-it , " and it 's about the things little kids do with their parents .
so this is about potty training -- as most of you , i hope , know .
you can tickle the rug .
you can make the baby poop .
you can do all those fun things .
you can burst bubbles .
you can draw , as everyone should .
but you know , i have a problem with children 's books : i think they 're full of propaganda .
at least an indian trying to get one of these american books in park slope , forget it .
it 's not the way i was brought up .
so i said , " i 'm going to counter this with my own propaganda . " if you notice carefully , it 's a homosexual couple bringing up a child .
you don 't like it ?
shake it , and you have a lesbian couple .
shake it , and you have a heterosexual couple .
you know , i don 't even believe in the concept of an ideal family .
i have to tell you about my childhood .
i went to this very proper christian school taught by nuns , fathers , brothers , sisters .
basically , i was brought up to be a good samaritan , and i am .
and i 'd go at the end of the day to a traditional hindu house , which was probably the only hindu house in a predominantly islamic neighborhood .
basically , i celebrated every religious function .
in fact , when there was a wedding in our neighborhood , all of us would paint our houses for the wedding .
i remember we cried profusely when the little goats we played with in the summer became biriani .
we all had to fast during ramadan .
it was a very beautiful time .
but i must say , i 'll never forget , when i was 13 years old , this happened .
babri masjid -- one of the most beautiful mosques in india , built by king babur , i think , in the 16th century -- was demolished by hindu activists .
this caused major riots in my city .
and for the first time , i was affected by this communal unrest .
my little five-year-old kid neighbor comes running in , and he says , " rags , rags .
you know the hindus are killing us muslims . be careful . " i 'm like , " dude , i 'm hindu . " he 's like , " huh ! " you know , my work is inspired by events such as this .
even in my gallery shows , i try and revisit historic events like babri masjid , distill only its emotional residue and image my own life .
imagine history being taught differently .
remember that children 's book where you shake and the sexuality of the parents change ?
i have another idea .
it 's a children 's book about indian independence -- very patriotic .
but when you shake it , you get pakistan 's perspective .
shake it again , and you get the british perspective .
you have to separate fact from bias , right .
even my books on children have cute , fuzzy animals .
but they 're playing geopolitics .
they 're playing out israel-palestine , india-pakistan .
you know , i 'm making a very important argument .
and my argument [ is ] that the only way for us to teach creativity is by teaching children perspectives at the earliest stage .
after all , children 's books are manuals on parenting , so you better give them children 's books that teach them perspectives .
and conversely , only when you teach perspectives will a child be able to imagine and put themselves in the shoes of someone who is different from them .
i 'm making an argument that art and creativity are very essential tools in empathy .
you know , i can 't promise my child a life without bias -- we 're all biased -- but i promise to bias my child with multiple perspectives .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / david _ pogue _ says _ simplicity _ sells.html
< i > new york times < / i > columnist david pogue takes aim at technology 's worst interface-design offenders , and provides encouraging examples of products that get it right . to funny things up , he bursts into song .
computers , entertainment , interface design , media , music , performance , software , technology
7
david pogue says " simplicity sells "
hello voicemail , my old friend .
i 've called for tech support again .
i ignored my boss ' warning . i called on a monday morning .
now it 's evening , and my dinner first grew cold -- and then grew mold . i 'm still on hold . i 'm listening to the sounds of silence .
i don 't think you understand . i think your phone lines are unmanned .
i punched every touch tone i was told ,
but i still spent 18 hours on hold .
it 's not enough your software crashed my mac and it constantly hangs and bombs -- it erased my roms ! now the mac makes the sounds of silence .
in my dreams i fantasize of wreaking vengeance on you guys .
say your motorcycle crashes . blood comes gushing from your gashes . with your fading strength , you call 9-1-1 and you pray for a trained md . but you get me . and you listen to the sounds of silence .
thank you . good evening and welcome to " spot the ted presenter who used to be a broadway accompanist . " ok . when i was offered the times column six years ago , the deal was like this : you 'll be sent the coolest , hottest , slickest new gadgets .
every week it 'll arrive at your door .
you get to try them out , play with them , evaluate them until the novelty wears out , before you have to send them back .
and you 'll get paid for it . you can think about it , if you want .
i 've always been a technology nut , and i absolutely love it .
the job , though , came with one small downside . and that is : they intended to publish my email address at the end of every column .
and what i 've noticed is -- first of all , you get an incredible amount of email .
if you ever are feeling lonely , get a new york times column , because you will get hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of emails . and the email i 'm getting a lot today is about frustration .
people are feeling like things -- ok , i just had an alarm come up on my screen . lucky you can 't see it .
people are feeling overwhelmed . they 're feeling like it 's too much technology too fast .
it may be good technology , but i feel like there 's not enough of a support structure .
there 's not enough help . there 's not enough thought put into the design of it to make it easy and enjoyable to use .
one time i wrote a column about my efforts to reach dell technical support , and within 12 hours there were 700 messages from readers on the feedback boards on the times website , from users saying , " me too ! " and , " here 's my tale of woe . " i call it " software rage . "
and man , let me tell you , whoever figures out how to make money off of this frustration will -- oh , how did that get up there ? just kidding .
ok , so why is the problem accelerating ? part of the problem is , ironically , because the industry has put so much thought into making things easier to use .
i 'll show you what i mean .
this is what the computer interface used to look like , dos .
over the years it 's gotten easier to use .
this is the original mac operating system .
reagan was president . madonna was still a brunette .
and the entire operating system -- this is the good part -- the entire operating system fit in 211k .
you couldn 't put the mac os 10 logo in 211k !
so the irony is that as these things became easier to use a less technical , broader audience was coming into contact with this equipment for the first time .
i once had the distinct privilege of sitting in on the apple call center for a day .
the guy had a duplicate headset for me to listen to .
and the calls that -- you know how they say , " your call may be recorded for quality assurance ? "
mm-mmm . your call may be recorded so that they can collect the funniest dumb user stories and pass them around on a cd .
which they do .
and i have a copy .
it 's in your tedgift bag . no , no .
with your voices on it !
some of the stories are just so classic , and yet so understandable .
a woman called apple to complain that her mouse was squeaking -- making a squeaking noise .
and the technician said , " well , ma 'am , what do you mean your mouse is squeaking ? "
she says , " all i can tell you is that it squeaks louder the faster i move it across the screen . " and the technician 's like , " ma 'am , you 've got the mouse up against the screen ? "
she goes , " well , the message said , ' click here to continue . ' " well , if you like that one , how much time have we got ?
another one , a guy called -- this is absolutely true ! --
his computer had crashed , and he told the technician he couldn 't restart it no matter how many times he typed 11 .
and the technician said , " what ? why are you typing 11 ? " he said , " the message says , ' error type 11 . ' " so we must admit that some of the blame falls squarely at the feet of the users .
but why is the technical overload crisis , the complexity crisis , accelerating now ? in the hardware world , it 's because we the consumers want everything to be smaller , smaller , smaller .
so the gadgets are getting tinier and tinier but our fingers are essentially staying the same size .
so it gets to be more and more of a challenge .
software is subject to another primal force : the mandate to release more and more versions .
when you buy a piece of software , it 's not like buying a vase or a candy bar , where you own it .
it 's more like joining a club where you pay dues every year .
and every year , they say , " we 've added more features and we 'll sell it to you for $ 99 . " i know one guy who 's spent $ 4,000 just on photoshop over the years .
and software companies make 35 percent of their revenue from just these software upgrades .
i call it the software upgrade paradox -- which is that if you improve a piece of software enough times , you eventually ruin it .
i mean , microsoft word was last just a word processor in , you know , the eisenhower administration .
but what 's the alternative ? microsoft actually did this experiment . they said , " well , wait a minute . everyone complains that we 're adding so many features .
let 's create a word processor that 's just a word processor .
simple , pure , does not do web pages , is not a database . "
and it came out . it was called microsoft write .
and none of you are nodding in acknowledgment because it died .
it tanked . no one ever bought it .
i call this the sport utility principle . people like to surround themselves with unnecessary power , right ?
they don 't need the database and the website , but they 're like , " well , i 'll upgrade , because , i might , you know , i might need that someday . "
so the problem is : as you add more features , where are they going to go ?
where are you going to stick them ? you only have so many design tools .
you can do buttons ; you can do sliders , pop-up menus , sub-menus .
but if you 're not careful about how you choose , you wind up with this .
this is an un-retouched -- this is not a joke -- un-retouched photo of microsoft word , the copy that you have , with all the toolbars open .
you 've obviously never opened all the toolbars , but all you have to type in is this little , teeny window down here .
and we 've arrived at the age of interface matrices , where there are so many features and options , you have to do two dimensions , you know :
a vertical and a horizontal . you guys all complained about how microsoft word is always bulleting your lists and underlining your links automatically .
the off switch is in there somewhere .
i 'm telling you , it 's there !
part of the art of designing a simple , good interface , is knowing when to use which one of these features .
here is the log off dialog box for windows 2000 .
there are only four choices ,
so why are they in a pop-up menu ?
it 's not like the rest of the screen is so full of other components that you need to collapse the choices . they could have put them all out in view .
here 's apple 's take on the exact same dialog box .
thank you -- yes , i designed the dialog box . no , no , no .
already , we can see that apple and microsoft have a severely divergent approach to software design .
microsoft 's approach to simplicity tends to be : let 's break it down ; let 's just make it more steps . there are these " wizards " everywhere .
and you know , there 's a new version of windows coming out this fall .
if they continue at this pace , there 's absolutely no telling where they might wind up .
" welcome to the type-a-word wizard . " ok , i 'll bite . let 's click " next " to continue .
from the drop-down menu , choose the first letter you want to type . ok .
so there is a limit that we don 't want to cross . so what is the answer ?
how do you pack in all these features in a simple , intelligent way ?
i believe in consistency with possible , real-world equivalents , trashcan folder when possible , label things mostly . but i beg of the designers here to break all those rules if they violate the biggest rule of all , which is intelligence . now what do i mean by that ?
i 'm going to give you some examples where intelligence makes something not consistent , but it 's better .
if you are buying something on the web , you 're supposed to put in your address and you 're supposed to choose which country you 're from , ok ?
there are 200 countries in the world . we like to think of the internet as a global village . i 'm sorry ; it 's not one yet .
it 's mainly , like , the united states , europe and japan .
so why is united states in the " u " s ?
you have to scroll , like , seven screens-full to get to it .
now it would be inconsistent to put united states first , but it would be intelligent . this one 's been touched on before , but why in god 's name do you shut down a windows pc by clicking a button called " start ? "
here 's another pet one of mine : you have a printer .
most of the time , you want to print one copy of your document , in page order , on that printer .
so why in god 's name do you see this every time you print ?
it 's like a 747 shuttle cockpit .
and one of the buttons at the bottom , you 'll notice , is not " print . "
now , i 'm not saying that apple is the only company who has embraced the cult of simplicity .
palm is also , especially in the old days , wonderful about this .
i actually got to speak to palm when they were flying high in the ' 90s , and after the talk , i met one of the employees .
he says , " nice talk . " and i said , " thank you , what do you do here ? "
he said , " i 'm a tap counter . "
i 'm like , " you 're a what ? " he goes , " well , jeff hawkins , the ceo , says , ' if any task on the palm pilot takes more than three taps of the stylus , it 's too long , and it has to be redesigned . ' so i 'm the tap counter . "
i 'm going to show you an example of a company that does not have a tap counter .
this is microsoft word . when you want to create a new blank document in word -- it could happen !
-- you go up to the file menu and you choose " new . " now , what happens when you choose " new ? " do you get a new blank document ?
you do not .
on the opposite side of the monitor , a task bar appears , and somewhere in those links -- by the way , not at the top -- somewhere in those links is a button that makes you a new document .
that is a company not counting taps .
you know , i don 't want to just stand here and make fun of microsoft ...
audience : go on .
david pogue : yes , i do .
the bill gates song !
i 've been a geek forever and i wrote the very first dos .
i put my software and ibm together ; i got profit and they got the loss .
i write the code that makes the whole world run .
i 'm gettin ' royalties from everyone .
sometimes it 's garbage , but the press is snowed .
you buy the box ; i 'll sell the code .
every software company is doing microsoft 's r & d .
you can 't keep a good idea down these days .
even windows is a hack . we 're kind of based loosely on the mac .
so it 's big , so it 's slow . you 've got nowhere to go . i 'm not doing this for praise . i write the code that fits the world today .
big mediocrity in every way . we 've entered planet domination mode . you 'll have no choice ; you 'll buy my code .
i am bill gates and i write the code .
but actually , i believe there are really two microsofts .
there 's the old one , responsible for windows and office .
they 're dying to throw the whole thing out and start fresh , but they can 't . they 're locked in because so many add-ons and other company stuff locks into the old 1982 chassis .
but there 's also a new microsoft that 's really doing good , simple interface designs .
i liked the media center pc . i liked the microsoft spot watch .
the wireless watch flopped miserably in the market , but it wasn 't because it wasn 't simply and beautifully designed .
let 's put it this way : would you pay $ 10 a month to have a watch that has to be recharged every night , like your cell phone , and stops working when you leave your area code ?
the signs might indicate that the complexity crunch is only going to get worse .
so is there any hope ? the screens are getting smaller .
people are illuminating , putting manuals in the boxes .
the things are coming out at a faster pace .
it 's funny -- when steve jobs came back to apple in 1997 , after 12 years away , it was the macworld expo --
he came to the stage in that black turtleneck and jeans , and he sort of did this . the crowd went wild , but i 'm like , where have i seen this before ? i had just seen the movie " evita " -- -- with madonna , and i 'm like , you know what , i 've got to do one about steve jobs .
it won 't be easy . you 'll think i 'm strange .
when i try to explain why i 'm back after telling the press apple 's future is black .
you won 't believe me .
all that you see is a kid in his teens who started out in a garage with only a buddy named woz .
you try rhyming with garage !
don 't cry for me , cupertino .
the truth is , i never left you .
i know the ropes now , know what the tricks are .
i made a fortune over at pixar .
don 't cry for me , cupertino . i 've still got the drive and vision . i still wear sandals in any weather . it 's just that these days , they 're gucci leather .
thank you . so steve jobs had always believed in simplicity and elegance and beauty . and the truth is , for years i was a little depressed -- because americans obviously did not value it , because the mac had three percent market share and windows had 95 percent market share .
people did not think it was worth putting a price on it .
so i was a little depressed -- then i heard al gore 's talk , and i realized i didn 't know the meaning of depressed .
but it turns out i was wrong , right ? because the ipod came out , and it violated every bit of common wisdom .
other products cost less . other products had more features .
they had voice recorders and fm transmitters .
the other products were backed by microsoft with an open standard , not apple 's propriety standard .
but the ipod won ! this is the one they wanted .
the lesson was : simplicity sells .
and there are signs that the industry is getting the message .
this is a little company that 's done very well with simplicity and elegance .
the sonos thing -- it 's catching on .
i 've got just a couple examples . physically , a really cool , elegant , thinking coming along lately .
when you have a digital camera , how do you get the pictures back to your computer ?
well , you either haul around a usb cable or you buy a card reader and haul that around .
either one , you 're going to lose . what i do is , i take out the memory card , and i fold it in half , revealing usb contacts .
i just stick it in the computer , offload the pictures , put it right back in the camera . i never have to lose anything .
here 's another example . chris , you 're the source of all power .
will you be my power plug ?
chris anderson : oh yeah .
dp : hold that and don 't let go . you might have seen this : this is apple 's new laptop . this is the power cord . it hooks on like this .
and i 'm sure every one of you has done this at some point in your lives , or one of your children . you walk along -- and i 'm about to pull this onto the floor . i don 't care . it 's a loaner .
here we go . whoa ! it 's magnetic . it doesn 't pull the laptop onto the floor .
in my very last example -- i do a lot of my work using speech recognition software , and you have to be kind of quiet because the software is nervous .
" speech recognition software is really great for doing emails very quickly . period .
like , i get hundreds of them a day . period .
and it 's not just what i dictate that it writes down . period .
i also use this feature called voice macros . period . "
correct " dissuade . " " not just . "
okay , this is not an ideal situation , because it 's getting the echo from the hall and stuff .
but the point is : i can respond to people very quickly by saying a short word and having it write out a much longer thing . so if somebody sends me a fan letter , i 'll say , " thanks for that . "
and conversely , if somebody sends me hate mail -- which happens daily -- i say , " piss off . "
so that 's my dirty little secret . don 't tell anyone .
so the point is , this a really interesting story .
this is version eight of this software , and do you know what they put in version eight ?
no new features . it 's never happened before in software !
the company put no new features . they just said , " we 'll make the software work right . " right .
because for years people had bought this software , tried it out -- 95 percent accuracy was all they got , which means one in 20 words is wrong -- and they put it in their drawer . and the company got sick of that , so they said , " this version , we 're not going to do anything but make sure it 's darned accurate . "
and so that 's what they did . this cult of doing things right is starting to spread .
my final advice for those of you who are consumers of this technology : remember , if it doesn 't work it 's not necessarily you , ok ?
it could be the design of the thing you 're using .
be aware in life of good design and bad design .
and if you 're among the people who create the stuff , easy is hard .
pre-sweat the details for your audience . count the taps .
remember , the hard part is not deciding what features to add -- it 's deciding what to leave out .
and best of all , your motivation is : simplicity sells .
ca : bravo . dp : thank you very much .
ca : hear , hear !
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / bill _ joy _ muses _ on _ what _ s _ next.html
technologist and futurist bill joy talks about several big worries for humanity -- and several big hopes in the fields of health , education and future tech .
business , future , health , science , technology
405
bill joy : what i 'm worried about , what i 'm excited about
what technology can we really apply to reducing global poverty ?
and what i found was quite surprising .
we started looking at things like death rates in the 20th century , and how they 'd been improved , and very simple things turned out .
you 'd think maybe antibiotics made more difference than clean water , but it 's actually the opposite .
and so very simple things -- off-the-shelf technologies that we could easily find on the then-early web -- would clearly make a huge difference to that problem .
but i also , in looking at more powerful technologies and nanotechnology and genetic engineering and other new emerging kind of digital technologies , became very concerned about the potential for abuse .
if you think about it , in history , a long , long time ago we dealt with the problem of an individual abusing another individual .
we came up with something -- the ten commandments : thou shalt not kill .
that 's a , kind of a one-on-one thing .
we organized into cities . we had many people .
and to keep the many from tyrannizing the one , we came up with concepts like individual liberty .
and then , to have to deal with large groups , say , at the nation-state level , and we had to have mutual non-aggression , or through a series of conflicts , we eventually came to a rough international bargain to largely keep the peace .
but now we have a new situation , really what people call an asymmetric situation , where technology is so powerful that it extends beyond a nation-state .
it 's not the nation-states that have potential access to mass destruction , but individuals .
and this is a consequence of the fact that these new technologies tend to be digital .
we saw genome sequences .
you can download the gene sequences of pathogens off the internet if you want to , and clearly someone recently -- i saw in a science magazine -- they said , well , the 1918 flu is too dangerous to fedex around .
if people want to use it in their labs for working on research , just reconstruct it yourself , because , you know , it might break in fedex .
so that this is possible to do this is not deniable .
so individuals in small groups super-empowered by access to these kinds of self-replicating technologies , whether it be biological or other , are clearly a danger in our world .
and the danger is that they can cause roughly what 's a pandemic .
and we really don 't have experience with pandemics ,
and we 're also not very good as a society at acting to things we don 't have direct and sort of gut-level experience with .
so it 's not in our nature to pre-act .
and in this case , piling on more technology doesn 't solve the problem , because it only super-empowers people more .
so the solution has to be , as people like russell and einstein and others imagine in a conversation that existed in a much stronger form , i think , early in the 20th century , that the solution had to be not just the head but the heart .
you know , public policy and moral progress .
the bargain that gives us civilization is a bargain to not use power .
we get our individual rights by society protecting us from others not doing everything they can do but largely doing only what is legal .
and so to limit the danger of these new things , we have to limit , ultimately , the ability of individuals to have access , essentially , to pandemic power .
we also have to have sensible defense , because no limitation is going to prevent a crazy person from doing something .
and you know , and the troubling thing is that it 's much easier to do something bad than to defend against all possible bad things , so the offensive uses really have an asymmetric advantage .
so these are the kind of thoughts i was thinking in 1999 and 2000 , and my friends told me i was getting really depressed , and they were really worried about me .
and then i signed a book contract to write more gloomy thoughts about this and moved into a hotel room in new york with one room full of books on the plague , and you know , nuclear bombs exploding in new york where i would be within the circle , and so on .
and then i was there on september 11th , and i stood in the streets with everyone .
and it was quite an experience to be there .
i got up the next morning and walked out of the city , and all the sanitation trucks were parked on houston street and ready to go down and start taking the rubble away .
and i walked down the middle , up to the train station , and everything below 14th street was closed .
it was quite a compelling experience , but not really , i suppose , a surprise to someone who 'd had his room full of the books .
it was always a surprise that it happened then and there , but it wasn 't a surprise that it happened at all .
and everyone then started writing about this .
thousands of people started writing about this .
and i eventually abandoned the book , and then chris called me to talk at the conference . i really don 't talk about this anymore because , you know , there 's enough frustrating and depressing things going on .
but i agreed to come and say a few things about this .
and i would say that we can 't give up the rule of law to fight an asymmetric threat , which is what we seem to be doing because of the present , the people that are in power , because that 's to give up the thing that makes civilization .
and we can 't fight the threat in the kind of stupid way we 're doing , because a million-dollar act causes a billion dollars of damage , causes a trillion dollar response which is largely ineffective and arguably , probably almost certainly , has made the problem worse .
so we can 't fight the thing with a million-to-one cost , one-to-a-million cost-benefit ratio .
so after giving up on the book -- and i had the great honor to be able to join kleiner perkins about a year ago ,
and to work through venture capital on the innovative side , and to try to find some innovations that could address what i saw as some of these big problems .
things where , you know , a factor of 10 difference can make a factor of 1,000 difference in the outcome .
i 've been amazed in the last year at the incredible quality and excitement of the innovations that have come across my desk .
it 's overwhelming at times . i 'm very thankful for google and wikipedia so i can understand at least a little of what people are talking about who come through the doors .
but i wanted to share with you three areas that i 'm particularly excited about and that relate to the problems that i was talking about in the wired article .
the first is this whole area of education , and it really relates to what nicholas was talking about with a $ 100 computer .
and that is to say that there 's a lot of legs left in moore 's law .
the most advanced transistors today are at 65 nanometers , and we 've seen , and i 've had the pleasure to invest in , companies that give me great confidence that we 'll extend moore 's law all the way down to roughly the 10 nanometer scale .
another factor of , say , six in dimensional reduction , which should give us about another factor of 100 in raw improvement in what the chips can do . and so , to put that in practical terms , if something costs about 1,000 dollars today , say , the best personal computer you can buy , that might be its cost , i think we can have that in 2020 for 10 dollars . okay ?
now , just imagine what that $ 100 computer will be in 2020 as a tool for education .
i think the challenge for us is -- i 'm very certain that that will happen , the challenge is , will we develop the kind of educational tools and things with the net to let us take advantage of that device ?
i 'd argue today that we have incredibly powerful computers , but we don 't have very good software for them .
and it 's only in retrospect , after the better software comes along , and you take it and you run it on a ten-year-old machine , you say , god , the machine was that fast ?
i remember when they took the apple mac interface and they put it back on the apple ii .
the apple ii was perfectly capable of running that kind of interface , we just didn 't know how to do it at the time .
so given that we know and should believe -- because moore 's law 's been , like , a constant , i mean , it 's just been very predictable progress over the last 40 years or whatever .
we can know what the computers are going to be like in 2020 .
it 's great that we have initiatives to say , let 's go create the education and educate people in the world , because that 's a great force for peace .
and we can give everyone in the world a $ 100 computer or a $ 10 computer in the next 15 years .
the second area that i 'm focusing on is the environmental problem , because that 's clearly going to put a lot of pressure on this world .
we 'll hear a lot more about that from al gore very shortly .
the thing that we see as the kind of moore 's law trend that 's driving improvement in our ability to address the environmental problem is new materials .
we have a challenge , because the urban population is growing in this century from two billion to six billion in a very short amount of time . people are moving to the cities .
they all need clean water , they need energy , they need transportation , and we want them to develop in a green way .
we 're reasonably efficient in the industrial sectors .
we 've made improvements in energy and resource efficiency , but the consumer sector , especially in america , is very inefficient .
but these new materials bring such incredible innovations that there 's a strong basis for hope that these things will be so profitable that they can be brought to the market .
and i want to give you a specific example of a new material that was discovered 15 years ago .
if we take carbon nanotubes , you know , iijima discovered them in 1991 , they just have incredible properties .
and these are the kinds of things we 're going to discover as we start to engineer at the nano scale .
their strength : they 're almost the strongest material , tensile strength material known .
they 're very , very stiff . they stretch very , very little .
in two dimensions , if you make , like , a fabric out of them , they 're 30 times stronger than kevlar .
and if you make a three-dimensional structure , like a buckyball , they have all sorts of incredible properties .
if you shoot a particle at them and knock a hole in them , they repair themselves ; they go zip and they repair the hole in femtoseconds , which is not -- is really quick .
if you shine a light on them , they produce electricity .
in fact , if you flash them with a camera they catch on fire .
if you put electricity on them , they emit light .
if you run current through them , you can run 1,000 times more current through one of these than through a piece of metal .
you can make both p- and n-type semiconductors , which means you can make transistors out of them .
they conduct heat along their length but not across -- well , there is no width , but not in the other direction if you stack them up ; that 's a property of carbon fiber also .
if you put particles in them , and they go shooting out the tip -- they 're like miniature linear accelerators or electron guns .
the inside of the nanotubes is so small -- the smallest ones are 0.7 nanometers -- that it 's basically a quantum world .
it 's a strange place inside a nanotube .
and so we begin to see , and we 've seen business plans already , where the kind of things lisa randall 's talking about are in there .
i had one business plan where i was trying to learn more about witten 's cosmic dimension strings to try to understand what the phenomenon was going on in this proposed nanomaterial .
so inside of a nanotube , we 're really at the limit here .
so what we see is with these and other new materials that we can do things with different properties -- lighter , stronger -- and apply these new materials to the environmental problems .
new materials that can make water , new materials that can make fuel cells work better , new materials that catalyze chemical reactions , that cut pollution and so on .
ethanol -- new ways of making ethanol .
new ways of making electric transportation .
the whole green dream -- because it can be profitable .
and we 've dedicated -- we 've just raised a new fund , we dedicated 100 million dollars to these kinds of investments .
we believe that genentech , the compaq , the lotus , the sun , the netscape , the amazon , the google in these fields are yet to be found , because this materials revolution will drive these things forward .
the third area that we 're working on , and we just announced last week -- we were all in new york .
we raised 200 million dollars in a specialty fund to work on a pandemic in biodefense .
and to give you an idea of the last fund that kleiner raised was a $ 400 million fund , so this for us is a very substantial fund .
and what we did , over the last few months -- well , a few months ago , ray kurzweil and i wrote an op-ed in the new york times about how publishing the 1918 genome was very dangerous .
and john doerr and brook and others got concerned , [ unclear ] , and we started looking around at what the world was doing about being prepared for a pandemic . and we saw a lot of gaps .
and so we asked ourselves , you know , can we find innovative things that will go fill these gaps ? and brooks told me in a break here , he said he 's found so much stuff he can 't sleep ,
because there 's so many great technologies out there , we 're essentially buried . and we need them , you know .
we have one antiviral that people are talking about stockpiling that still works , roughly . that 's tamiflu .
but tamiflu -- the virus is resistant . it is resistant to tamiflu .
we 've discovered with aids we need cocktails to work well so that the viral resistance -- we need several anti-virals .
we need better surveillance .
we need networks that can find out what 's going on .
we need rapid diagnostics so that we can tell if somebody has a strain of flu which we have only identified very recently .
we 've got to be able to make the rapid diagnostics quickly .
we need new anti-virals and cocktails . we need new kinds of vaccines .
vaccines that are broad spectrum .
vaccines that we can manufacture quickly .
cocktails , more polyvalent vaccines .
you normally get a trivalent vaccine against three possible strains .
we need -- we don 't know where this thing is going .
we believe that if we could fill these 10 gaps , we have a chance to help really reduce the risk of a pandemic .
and the difference between a normal flu season and a pandemic is about a factor of 1,000 in deaths and certainly enormous economic impact .
so we 're very excited because we think we can fund 10 , or speed up 10 projects and see them come to market in the next couple years that will address this .
so if we can address , use technology , help address education , help address the environment , help address the pandemic , does that solve the larger problem that i was talking about in the wired article ? and i 'm afraid the answer is really no ,
because you can 't solve a problem with the management of technology with more technology .
if we let an unlimited amount of power loose , then we will -- a very small number of people will be able to abuse it .
we can 't fight at a million-to-one disadvantage .
so what we need to do is , we need better policy .
and for example , some things we could do that would be policy solutions which are not really in the political air right now but perhaps with the change of administration would be -- use markets .
markets are a very strong force .
for example , rather than trying to regulate away problems , which probably won 't work , if we could price into the cost of doing business , the cost of catastrophe , so that people who are doing things that had a higher cost of catastrophe would have to take insurance against that risk .
so if you wanted to put a drug on the market you could put it on .
but it wouldn 't have to be approved by regulators ; you 'd have to convince an actuary that it would be safe .
and if you apply the notion of insurance more broadly , you can use a more powerful force , a market force , to provide feedback .
how could you keep the law ?
i think the law would be a really good thing to keep .
well , you have to hold people accountable .
the law requires accountability .
today scientists , technologists , businessmen , engineers don 't have any personal responsibility for the consequences of their actions .
so if you tie that -- you have to tie that back with the law .
and finally , i think we have to do something that 's not really -- it 's almost unacceptable to say this -- which , we have to begin to design the future .
we can 't pick the future , but we can steer the future .
our investment in trying to prevent pandemic flu is affecting the distribution of possible outcomes .
we may not be able to stop it , but the likelihood that it will get past us is lower if we focus on that problem .
so we can design the future if we choose what kind of things we want to have happen and not have happen , and steer us to a lower-risk place .
vice president gore will talk about how we could steer the climate trajectory into a lower probability of catastrophic risk .
but above all , what we have to do is we have to help the good guys , the people on the defensive side , have an advantage over the people who want to abuse things .
and what we have to do to do that is we have to limit access to certain information .
and growing up as we have , and holding very high the value of free speech , this is a hard thing for us to accept -- for all of us to accept .
it 's especially hard for the scientists to accept who still remember , you know , galileo essentially locked up , and who are still fighting this battle against the church .
but that 's the price of having a civilization .
the price of retaining the rule of law is to limit the access to the great and kind of unbridled power .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / penelope _ boston.html
so the mars rovers didn 't scoop up any alien lifeforms . scientist penelope boston thinks there 's a good chance -- a 25 to 50 percent chance , in fact -- that life might exist on mars , deep inside the planet 's caves . she details how we should look and why .
exploration , geology , life , science , technology , universe
421
penelope boston says there might be life on mars
the career that i started early on in my life was looking for exotic life forms in exotic places , and at that time i was working in the antarctic and the arctic , and high deserts and low deserts .
until about a dozen years ago , when i was really captured by caves , and i really re-focused most of my research in that direction .
so i have a really cool day job-- i get to do some really amazing stuff .
i work in some of the most extreme cave environments on the planet .
many of them are trying to kill us from the minute we go into them , but nevertheless , they 're absolutely gripping , and contain unbelievable biological wonders that are very , very different from those that we have on the planet .
apart from the intrinsic value of the biology and mineralogy and geo-microbiology that we do there , we 're also using these as templates for figuring out how to go look for life on other planets .
particularly mars , but also europa , the small , icy moon around jupiter .
and perhaps , someday , far beyond our solar system itself .
i 'm very passionately interested in the human future , on the moon and mars particularly , and elsewhere in the solar system .
i think it 's time that we transitioned to a solar system-going civilization and species .
and , as an outgrowth of all of this then , i wonder about whether we can , and whether we even should , think about transporting earth-type life to other planets .
notably mars , as a first example .
something i never talk about in scientific meetings is how i actually got to this state and why i do the work that i do .
why don 't i have a normal job , a sensible job ?
and then of course , i blame the soviet union .
because in the mid-1950s , when i was a tiny child , they had the audacity to launch a very primitive little satellite called sputnik , which sent the western world into a hysterical tailspin .
and a tremendous amount of money went into the funding of science and mathematics skills for kids .
and i 'm a product of that generation , like so many other of my peers .
it really caught hold of us , and caught fire , and it would be lovely if we could reproduce that again now .
of course , refusing to grow up -- -- even though i impersonate a grown-up in daily life , but i do a fairly good job of that -- but really retaining that childlike quality of not caring what other people think about what you 're interested in , is really critical .
the next element is the fact that i have applied a value judgment and my value judgment is that the presence of life is better than no life .
and so , life is more valuable than no life .
and so i think that that holds together a great deal of the work that people in this audience approach .
i 'm very interested in mars , of course , and that was a product of my being a young undergraduate when the viking landers landed on mars .
and that took what had been a tiny little astronomical object in the sky , that you would see as a dot , and turned it completely into a landscape , as that very first primitive picture came rastering across the screen .
and when it became a landscape , it also became a destination , and altered , really , the course of my life .
in my graduate years i worked with my colleague and mentor and friend , steve schneider , at the national center for atmospheric research , working on global change issues .
we 've written a number of things on the role of gaia hypothesis -- whether or not you could consider earth as a single entity in any meaningful scientific sense , and then , as an outgrowth of that , i worked on the environmental consequences of nuclear war .
so , wonderful things and grim things .
but what it taught me was to look at earth as a planet with external eyes , not just as our home .
and that is a wonderful stepping away in perspective , to try to then think about the way our planet behaves , as a planet , and with the life that 's on it .
and all of this seems to me to be a salient point in history .
we 're getting ready to begin to go through the process of leaving our planet of origin and out into the wider solar system and beyond .
so , back to mars .
how hard is it going to be to find life on mars ?
well , sometimes it 's really very hard for us to find each other , even on this planet .
so , finding life on another planet is a non-trivial occupation and we spend a lot of time trying to think about that .
whether or not you think it 's likely to be successful sort of depends on what you think about the chances of life in the universe .
i think , myself , that life is a natural outgrowth of the increasing complexification of matter over time .
so , you start with the big bang and you get hydrogen , and then you get helium , and then you get more complicated stuff , and you get planets forming -- and life is a common , planetary-based phenomenon , in my view .
certainly , in the last 15 years , we 've seen increasing numbers of planets outside of our solar system being confirmed ,
and just last month , a couple of weeks ago , a planet in the size-class of earth has actually been found .
and so this is very exciting news .
so , my first bold prediction is that , is that in the universe , life is going to be everywhere .
it 's going to be everywhere we look -- where there are planetary systems that can possibly support it .
and those planetary systems are going to be very common .
so , what about life on mars ?
well , if somebody had asked me about a dozen years ago what i thought the chances of life on mars would be , i would 've probably said , a couple of percent .
and even that was considered outrageous at the time .
i was once sneeringly introduced by a former nasa official , as the only person on the planet who still thought there was life on mars .
of course , that official is now dead , and i 'm not , so there 's a certain amount of glory in outliving your adversaries .
but things have changed greatly over the last dozen years .
and the reason that they have changed is because we now have new information .
the amazing pathfinder mission that went in ' 97 , and the mer rover missions that are on mars as we speak now and the european space agency 's mars express , has taught us a number of amazing things .
there is sub-surface ice on that planet .
and so where there is water , there is a very high chance of our kind of life .
there 's clearly sedimentary rocks all over the place - one of the landers is sitting in the middle of an ancient seabed , and there are these amazing structures called blueberries , which are these little , rocky concretions that we are busy making biologically in my lab right now .
so , with all of these things put together , i think that the chances of life are much greater than i would 've ever thought .
i think that the chance of life having arisen on mars , sometime in its past , is maybe one in four to maybe even half and half .
so this is a very bold statement .
i think it 's there , and i think we need to go look for it , and i think it 's underground .
so the game 's afoot , and this is the game that we play in astro-biology .
how do you try to get a handle on extraterrestrial life ?
how do you plan to look for it ?
how do you know it when you find it ?
because if it 's big and obvious , we would 've already found it -- it would 've already bitten us on the foot , and it hasn 't .
so , we know that it 's probably quite cryptic .
very critically , how do we protect it , if we find it , and not contaminate it ?
and also , even perhaps more critically , because this is the only home planet we have , how do we protect us from it , while we study it ?
so why might it be hard to find ?
well , it 's probably microscopic , and it 's never easy to study microscopic things , although the amazing tools that we now have to do that allow us to study things in much greater depth , at much smaller scales than ever before .
but it 's probably hiding , because if you are out sequestering resources from your environment , that makes you yummy , and other things might want to eat you , or consume you .
and so , there 's a game of predator-prey that 's going to be , essentially , universal , really , in any kind of biological system .
it also may be very , very different in its fundamental properties - its chemistry , or its size .
we say small , but what does that mean ?
is it virus-sized ? is it smaller than that ?
is it bigger than the biggest bacterium ? we don 't know .
and speed of activity , which is something that we face in our work with sub-surface organisms , because they grow very , very slowly .
if i were to take a swab off your teeth and plate it on a petri plate , within about four or five hours , i would have to see growth .
but the organisms that we work with , from the sub-surface of earth , very often it 's months -- and in many cases , years -- before we see any growth whatsoever .
so they are , intrinsically , a slower life-form .
but the real issue is that we are guided by our limited experience , and until we can think out of the box of our cranium and what we know , then we can 't recognize what to look for , or how to plan for it .
so , perspective is everything and , because of the history that i 've just briefly talked to you about , i have learned to think about earth as an extraterrestrial planet .
and this has been invaluable in our approach to try to study these things .
this is my favorite game on airplanes : where you 're in an airplane and you look out the window , you see the horizon .
i always turn my head on the side , and that simple change makes me go from seeing this planet as home , to seeing it as a planet .
it 's a very simple trick , and i never fail to do it when i 'm sitting in a window seat .
well , this is what we apply to our work .
this shows one of the most extreme caves that we work in .
this is cueva de villa luz in tabasco , in mexico , and this cave is saturated with sulfuric acid .
there is tremendous amounts of hydrogen sulfide coming into this cave from volcanic sources and from the breakdown of evaporite -- minerals below the carbonates in which this cave is formed -- and it is a completely hostile environment for us .
we have to go in with protective suits and breathing gear , and 30 parts per million of h2s will kill you .
this is regularly several hundred parts per million .
so , it 's a very hazardous environment , with co as well , and many other gases .
these extreme physical and chemical parameters make the biology that grows in these places very special .
because contrary to what you might think , this is not devoid of life .
this is one of the richest caves that we have found on the planet , anywhere .
it 's bursting with life .
the extremes on earth are interesting in their own right , but one of the reasons that we 're interested in them is because they represent , really , the average conditions that we may expect on other planets .
so , this is part of the ability that we have , to try to stretch our imagination , in terms of what we may find in the future .
there 's so much life in this cave , and i can 't even begin to scratch the surface of it with you .
but one of the most famous objects out of this are what we call snottites , for obvious reasons .
this stuff looks like what comes out of your two-year-old 's nose when he has a cold .
and this is produced by bacteria who are actually making more sulfuric acid , and living at phs right around zero .
and so , this stuff is like battery acid .
and yet , everything in this cave has adapted to it .
in fact , there 's so much energy available for biology in this cave , that there 's actually a huge number of cavefish .
and the local zoque indians harvest this twice a year , as part of their easter week celebration and holy week celebration .
this is very unusual for caves .
in some of the other amazing caves that we work in -- this is in lechuguilla cave in new mexico near carlsbad , and this is one of the most famous caves in the world .
it 's 115 miles of mapped passage , it 's pristine , it has no natural opening and it 's a gigantic biological , geo-microbiological laboratory .
in this cave , great areas are covered by this reddish material that you see here , and also these enormous crystals of selenite that you can see dangling down .
this stuff is produced biologically .
this is the breakdown product of the bedrock , that organisms are busy munching their way through .
they take iron and manganese minerals within the bedrock and they oxidize them .
and every time they do that , they get a tiny little packet of energy .
and that tiny little packet of energy is what they use , then , to run their life processes .
interestingly enough , they also do this with uranium and chromium , and various other toxic metals .
and so , the obvious avenue for bio-remediation comes from organisms like this .
these organisms we now bring into the lab , and you can see some of them growing on petri plates , and get them to reproduce the precise biominerals that we find on the walls of these caves .
so , these are signals that they leave in the rock record .
well , even in basalt surfaces in lava-tube caves , which are a by-product of volcanic activity , we find these walls totally covered , in many cases , by these beautiful , glistening silver walls , or shiny pink or shiny red or shiny gold .
and these are mineral deposits that are also made by bacteria .
and you can see in these central images here , scanning electron micrographs of some of these guys -- these are gardens of these bacteria .
one of the interesting things about these particular guys is that they 're in the actinomycete and streptomycete groups of the bacteria , which is where we get most of our antibiotics .
the sub-surface of earth contains a vast biodiversity .
and these organisms , because they 're very separate from the surface , make a vast array of novel compounds .
and so , the potential for exploiting this for pharmaceutical and industrial chemical uses is completely untapped , but probably exceeds most of the rest of the biodiversity of the planet .
so , lava-tube caves-- i 've just told you about organisms that live here on this planet .
we know that on mars and the moon there are tons of these structures .
we can see them .
on the left you can see a lava tube forming at a recent eruption -- mount etna in sicily -- and this is the way these tubes form .
and when they hollow out , then they become habitats for organisms .
these are all over the planet mars , and we 're busy cataloguing them now .
and so , there 's very interesting cave real estate on mars , at least of that type .
in order to access these sub-surface environments that we 're interested in , we 're very interested in developing the tools to do this .
you know , it 's not easy to get into these caves . it requires crawling , climbing , rope-work , technical rope-work and many other complex human motions in order to access these .
we face the problem of , how can we do this robotically ?
why would we want to do it robotically ?
well , we 're going to be sending robotic missions to mars long in advance of human missions .
and then , secondly , getting back to that earlier point that i made about the preciousness of any life that we may find on mars , we don 't want to contaminate it .
and one of the best ways to study something without contaminating it is to have an intermediary .
and in this case , we 're imagining intermediary robotic devices that can actually do some of that front-end work for us , to protect any potential life that we find .
i 'm not going to go through all of these projects now , but we 're involved in about half-a-dozen robotic development projects , in collaboration with a number of different groups .
i want to talk specifically about the array that you see on the top .
these are hopping microbot swarms .
i 'm working on this with the field and space robotics laboratory and my friend steve dubowsky at mit , and we have come up with the idea of having little , jumping bean-like robots that are propelled by artificial muscle , which is one of the dubowsky lab 's specialties -- are the epams , or artificial muscles .
and these allow them to hop .
they behave with a swarm behavior , where they relate to each other , modeled after insect swarm behavior , and they could be made very numerous .
and so , one can send a thousand of them , as you can see in this upper left-hand picture , a thousand of them could fit into the payload bay that was used for one of the current mer rovers .
and these little guys -- you could lose many of them .
if you send a thousand of them , you could probably get rid of 90 percent of them and still have a mission .
and so , that allows you the flexibility to go into very challenging terrain and actually make your way where you want to go .
now , to wrap this up , i want to talk for two seconds about caves and the human expansion beyond earth as a natural outgrowth of the work that we do in caves .
it occurred to us a number of years ago that caves have many properties that people have used and other organisms have used as habitat in the past .
and perhaps it 's time we started to explore those , in the context of future mars and the moon exploration .
so , we have just finished a nasa institute for advanced concepts phase ii study , looking at the irreducible set of technologies that you would need in order to actually allow people to inhabit lava tubes on the moon or mars .
it turns out to be a fairly simple and small list , and we have gone in the relatively primitive technology direction .
so , we 're talking about things like inflatable liners that can conform to the complex topological shape on the inside of a cave , foamed-in-place airlocks to deal with this complex topology , various ways of getting breathing gases made from the intrinsic materials of these bodies .
and the future is there for us to use these lava-tube caves on mars .
and right now we 're in caves , and we 're doing science and recreation , but i think in the future we 'll be using them for habitat and science on these other bodies .
now , my view of what the current status of potential life on mars is that it 's probably been on the planet , maybe one in two chances .
the question as to whether there is life on mars that is related to life on earth has now been very muddied , because we now know , from mars meteorites that have made it to earth , that there 's material that can be exchanged between those two planets .
one of the burning questions , of course , is if we go there and find life in the sub-surface , as i fully expect that we will , is that a second genesis of life ?
did life start here and was it transported there ?
did it start there and get transported here ?
this will be a fascinating puzzle as we go into the next half-century , and where i expect that we will have more and more mars missions to answer these questions .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / derek _ sivers _ keep _ your _ goals _ to _ yourself.html
after hitting on a brilliant new life plan , our first instinct is to tell someone , but derek sivers says it 's better to keep goals secret . he presents research stretching as far back as the 1920s to show why people who talk about their ambitions may be less likely to achieve them .
personal growth , self , storytelling , success
947
derek sivers : keep your goals to yourself
everyone , please think of your biggest personal goal .
for real -- you can take a second . you 've got to feel this to learn it .
take a few seconds and think of your personal biggest goal , okay ?
imagine deciding right now that you 're going to do it .
imagine telling someone that you meet today what you 're going to do .
imagine their congratulations and their high image of you .
doesn 't it feel good to say it out loud ?
don 't you feel one step closer already , like it 's already becoming part of your identity ?
well , bad news : you should have kept your mouth shut , because that good feeling now will make you less likely to do it .
repeated psychology tests have proven that telling someone your goal makes it less likely to happen .
any time you have a goal , there are some steps that need to be done , some work that needs to be done in order to achieve it .
ideally , you would not be satisfied until you had actually done the work . but when you tell someone your goal and they acknowledge it , psychologists have found that it 's called a " social reality . "
the mind is kind of tricked into feeling that it 's already done .
and then , because you felt that satisfaction , you 're less motivated to do the actual hard work necessary .
so this goes against the conventional wisdom that we should tell our friends our goals , right -- so they hold us to it .
so , let 's look at the proof .
1926 , kurt lewin , founder of social psychology , called this " substitution . "
1933 , vera mahler found , when it was acknowledged by others , it felt real in the mind .
1982 , peter gollwitzer wrote a whole book about this and in 2009 , he did some new tests that were published .
it goes like this : 163 people across four separate tests -- everyone wrote down their personal goal . then half of them announced their commitment to this goal to the room , and half didn 't .
then everyone was given 45 minutes of work that would directly lead them towards their goal , but they were told that they could stop at any time .
now , those who kept their mouths shut worked the entire 45 minutes , on average ,
and when asked afterwards , said that they felt that they had a long way to go still to achieve their goal .
but those who had announced it quit after only 33 minutes , on average ,
and when asked afterwards , said that they felt much closer to achieving their goal .
so , if this is true , what can we do ?
well , you could resist the temptation to announce your goal .
you can delay the gratification that the social acknowledgement brings ,
and you can understand that your mind mistakes the talking for the doing .
but if you do need to talk about something , you can state it in a way that gives you no satisfaction , such as , " i really want to run this marathon , so i need to train five times a week and kick my ass if i don 't , okay ? "
so audience , next time you 're tempted to tell someone your goal , what will you say ?
exactly , well done .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / benjamin _ wallace _ on _ the _ price _ of _ happiness.html
can happiness be bought ? to find out , author benjamin wallace sampled the world 's most expensive products , including a bottle of 1947 chateau cheval blanc , 8 ounces of kobe beef and the fabled kopi luwak coffee . his critique may surprise you .
book , business , culture , entertainment , food , happiness , writing
419
benjamin wallace on the price of happiness
i 'm just going to play a brief video clip .
video :
on the fifth of december 1985 , a bottle of 1787 lafitte was sold for 105,000 pounds -- nine times the previous world record .
the buyer was kip forbes , son of one of the most flamboyant millionaires of the 20th century .
the original owner of the bottle turned out to be one of the most enthusiastic wine buffs of the 18th century .
chateau lafitte is one of the greatest wines in the world , the prince of any wine cellar . benjamin wallace : now , that 's about all the videotape that remains of an event that set off the longest-running mystery in the modern wine world .
and the mystery existed because of a gentleman named hardy rodenstock .
in 1985 , he announced to his friends in the wine world that he had made this incredible discovery .
some workmen in paris had broken through a brick wall , and happened upon this hidden cache of wines -- apparently the property of thomas jefferson . 1787 , 1784 .
he wouldn 't reveal the exact number of bottles , he would not reveal exactly where the building was and he would not reveal exactly who owned the building .
the mystery persisted for about 20 years .
it finally began to get resolved in 2005 because of this guy .
bill koch is a florida billionaire who owns four of the jefferson bottles , and he became suspicious .
and he ended up spending over a million dollars and hiring ex-fbi and ex-scotland yard agents to try to get to the bottom of this .
there 's now ample evidence that hardy rodenstock is a con man , and that the jefferson bottles were fakes .
but for those 20 years , an unbelievable number of really eminent and accomplished figures in the wine world were sort of drawn into the orbit of these bottles .
i think they wanted to believe that the most expensive bottle of wine in the world must be the best bottle of wine in the world , must be the rarest bottle of wine in the world .
i became increasingly , kind of voyeuristically interested in the question of
you know , why do people spend these crazy amounts of money , not only on wine but on lots of things , and are they living a better life than me ?
so , i decided to embark on a quest .
with the generous backing of a magazine i write for sometimes , i decided to sample the very best , or most expensive , or most coveted item in about a dozen categories , which was a very grueling quest , as you can imagine .
this was the first one .
a lot of the kobe beef that you see in the u.s. is not the real thing .
it may come from wagyu cattle , but it 's not from the original , appalachian hyogo prefecture in japan .
there are very few places in the u.s. where you can try real kobe , and one of them is wolfgang puck 's restaurant , cut , in los angeles .
i went there , and i ordered the eight-ounce rib eye for 160 dollars .
and it arrived , and it was tiny .
and i was outraged .
it was like , 160 dollars for this ?
and then i took a bite , and i wished that it was tinier , because kobe beef is so rich .
it 's like foie gras -- it 's not even like steak .
i almost couldn 't finish it .
i was really happy when i was done .
now , the photographer who took the pictures for this project for some reason posed his dog in a lot of them , so that 's why you 're going to see this recurring character . which , i guess , you know , communicates to you that i did not think that one was really worth the price .
white truffles .
one of the most expensive luxury foods by weight in the world .
to try this , i went to a mario batali restaurant in manhattan -- del posto .
the waiter , you know , came out with the white truffle knob and his shaver , and he shaved it onto my pasta and he said , you know , " would signore like the truffles ? "
and the charm of white truffles is in their aroma .
it 's not in their taste , really . it 's not in their texture .
it 's in the smell .
these white pearlescent flakes hit the noodles , this haunting , wonderful , nutty , mushroomy smell wafted up .
10 seconds passed and it was gone .
and then i was left with these little ugly flakes on my pasta that , you know , their purpose had been served ,
and so i 'm afraid to say that this was also a disappointment to me .
there were several -- several of these items were disappointments .
yeah .
the magazine wouldn 't pay for me to go there .
they did give me a tour , though .
and this hotel suite is 4,300 square feet .
it has 360-degree views .
it has four balconies .
it was designed by the architect i.m. pei .
it comes with its own rolls royce and driver .
it comes with its own wine cellar that you can draw freely from .
when i took the tour , it actually included some opus one , i was glad to see .
30,000 dollars for a night in a hotel .
this is soap that 's made from silver nanoparticles , which have antibacterial properties .
i washed my face with this this morning in preparation for this .
and it , you know , tickled a little bit and it smelled good , but i have to say that nobody here has complimented me on the cleanliness of my face today .
but then again , nobody has complimented me on the jeans i 'm wearing .
these ones gq did spring for -- i own these -- but i will tell you , not only did i not get a compliment from any of you , i have not gotten a compliment from anybody in the months that i have owned and worn these .
i don 't think that whether or not you 're getting a compliment should be the test of something 's value , but i think in the case of a fashion item , an article of clothing , that 's a reasonable benchmark .
that said , a lot of work goes into these .
they are made from handpicked organic zimbabwean cotton that has been shuttle loomed and then hand-dipped in natural indigo 24 times .
but no compliments .
thank you .
armando manni is a former filmmaker who makes this olive oil from an olive that grows on a single slope in tuscany .
and he goes to great lengths to protect the olive oil from oxygen and light .
he uses tiny bottles , the glass is tinted , he tops the olive oil off with an inert gas .
and he actually -- once he releases a batch of it , he regularly conducts molecular analyses and posts the results online , so you can go online and look at your batch number and see how the phenolics are developing , and , you know , gauge its freshness .
i did a blind taste test of this with 20 people and five other olive oils .
it tasted fine . it tasted interesting .
it was very green , it was very peppery .
but in the blind taste test , it came in last .
the olive oil that came in first was actually a bottle of whole foods 365 olive oil which had been oxidizing next to my stove for six months .
a recurring theme is that a lot of these things are from japan -- you 'll start to notice .
i don 't play golf , so i couldn 't actually road test these , but i did interview a guy who owns them .
even the people who market these clubs -- i mean , they 'll say these have four axis shafts which minimize loss of club speed and thereby drive the ball farther -- but they 'll say , look , you know , you 're not getting 57,000 dollars worth of performance from these clubs .
you 're paying for the bling , that they 're encrusted with gold and platinum .
the guy who i interviewed who owns them did say that he 's gotten a lot of pleasure out of them , so ...
oh , yeah , you know this one ?
this is a coffee made from a very unusual process .
the luwak is an asian palm civet .
it 's a cat that lives in trees , and at night it comes down and it prowls the coffee plantations .
and apparently it 's a very picky eater and it , you know , hones in on only the ripest coffee cherries .
and then an enzyme in its digestive tract leeches into the beans , and people with the unenviable job of collecting these cats ' leavings then go through the forest collecting the , you know , results and processing it into coffee -- although you actually can buy it in the unprocessed form .
that 's right .
unrelatedly --
japan is doing crazy things with toilets .
there is now a toilet that has an mp3 player in it .
there 's one with a fragrance dispenser .
there 's one that actually analyzes the contents of the bowl and transmits the results via email to your doctor .
it 's almost like a home medical center -- and that is the direction that japanese toilet technology is heading in .
this one does not have those bells and whistles , but for pure functionality it 's pretty much the best -- the neorest 600 .
and to try this -- i couldn 't get a loaner , but i did go into the manhattan showroom of the manufacturer , toto , and they have a bathroom off of the showroom that you can use , which i used .
it 's fully automated -- you walk towards it , and the seat lifts .
the seat is preheated .
there 's a water jet that cleans you .
there 's an air jet that dries you .
you get up , it flushes by itself .
the lid closes , it self-cleans .
not only is it a technological leap forward , but i really do believe it 's a bit of a cultural leap forward .
i mean , a no hands , no toilet paper toilet .
and i want to get one of these .
this was another one i could not get a loaner of .
tom cruise supposedly owns this bed .
there 's a little plaque on the end that , you know , each buyer gets their name engraved on it .
to try this one , the maker of it let me and my wife spend the night in the manhattan showroom .
lights glaring in off the street , and we had to hire a security guard and all these things .
but anyway , we had a great night 's sleep .
and you spend a third of your life in bed .
i don 't think it 's that bad of a deal .
this was a fun one .
this is the fastest street-legal car in the world and the most expensive production car .
i got to drive this with a chaperone from the company , a professional race car driver , and we drove around the canyons outside of los angeles and down on the pacific coast highway .
and , you know , when we pulled up to a stoplight the people in the adjacent cars kind of gave us respectful nods .
and it was really amazing .
it was such a smooth ride .
most of the cars that i drive , if i get up to 80 they start to rattle .
i switched lanes on the highway and the driver , this chaperone , said , " you know , you were just going 110 miles an hour . "
and i had no idea that i was one of those obnoxious people you occasionally see weaving in and out of traffic , because it was just that smooth .
and if i was a billionaire , i would get one .
this is a completely gratuitous video i 'm just going to show of one of the pitfalls of advanced technology .
this is tom cruise arriving at the " mission : impossible iii " premiere .
when he tries to open the door , you could call it " mission : impossible iv . "
there was one object that i could not get my hands on , and that was the 1947 cheval blanc .
the ' 47 cheval blanc is probably the most mythologized wine of the 20th century .
and cheval blanc is kind of an unusual wine for bordeaux in having a significant percentage of the cabernet franc grape .
and 1947 was a legendary vintage , especially in the right bank of bordeaux .
and just together , that vintage and that chateau took on this aura that eventually kind of gave it this cultish following .
but it 's 60 years old .
there 's not much of it left .
what there is of it left you don 't know if it 's real -- it 's considered to be the most faked wine in the world .
not that many people are looking to pop open their one remaining bottle for a journalist .
so , i 'd about given up trying to get my hands on one of these .
i 'd put out feelers to retailers , to auctioneers , and it was coming up empty .
and then i got an email from a guy named bipin desai .
bipin desai is a u.c. riverside theoretical physicist who also happens to be the preeminent organizer of rare wine tastings ,
and he said , " i 've got a tasting coming up where we 're going to serve the ' 47 cheval blanc . "
and it was going to be a double vertical -- it was going to be 30 vintages of cheval blanc , and 30 vintages of yquem .
and it was an invitation you do not refuse .
i went .
it was three days , four meals .
and at lunch on saturday , we opened the ' 47 .
and you know , it had this fragrant softness , and it smelled a little bit of linseed oil .
and then i tasted it , and it , you know , had this kind of unctuous , porty richness , which is characteristic of that wine -- that it sort of resembles port in a lot of ways .
there were people at my table who thought it was , you know , fantastic .
there were some people who were a little less impressed .
and i wasn 't that impressed .
and i don 't -- call my palate a philistine palate -- so it doesn 't necessarily mean something that i wasn 't impressed , but i was not the only one there who had that reaction .
and it wasn 't just to that wine .
any one of the wines served at this tasting , if i 'd been served it at a dinner party , it would have been , you know , the wine experience of my lifetime , and incredibly memorable .
but drinking 60 great wines over three days , they all just blurred together , and it became almost a grueling experience .
and i just wanted to finish by mentioning a very interesting study which came out earlier this year from some researchers at stanford and caltech .
and they gave subjects the same wine , labeled with different price tags .
a lot of people , you know , said that they liked the more expensive wine more --
it was the same wine , but they thought it was a different one that was more expensive .
but what was unexpected was that these researchers did mri brain imaging while the people were drinking the wine , and not only did they say they enjoyed the more expensively labeled wine more -- their brain actually registered as experiencing more pleasure from the same wine when it was labeled with a higher price tag .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / tom _ chatfield _ 7 _ ways _ games _ reward _ the _ brain.html
we 're bringing gameplay into more aspects of our lives , spending countless hours -- and real money -- exploring virtual worlds for imaginary treasures . why ? as tom chatfield shows , games are perfectly tuned to dole out rewards that engage the brain and keep us questing for more .
culture , education , entertainment , gaming , technology
996
tom chatfield : 7 ways games reward the brain
i love video games .
i 'm also slightly in awe of them .
i 'm in awe of their power in terms of imagination , in terms of technology , in terms of concept .
but i think , above all , i 'm in awe at their power to motivate , to compel us , to transfix us , like really nothing else we 've ever invented has quite done before .
and i think that we can learn some pretty amazing things by looking at how we do this .
and in particular , i think we can learn things about learning .
now the video games industry is far and away the fastest growing of all modern media .
from about 10 billion in 1990 , it 's worth 50 billion dollars globally today , and it shows no sign of slowing down .
in four years ' time , it 's estimated it 'll be worth over 80 billion dollars .
that 's about three times the recorded music industry .
this is pretty stunning , but i don 't think it 's the most telling statistic of all .
the thing that really amazes me is that , today , people spend about eight billion real dollars a year buying virtual items that only exist inside video games .
this is a screenshot from the virtual game world , entropia universe .
earlier this year , a virtual asteroid in it sold for 330,000 real dollars .
and this is a titan class ship in the space game , eve online .
and this virtual object takes 200 real people about 56 days of real time to build , plus countless thousands of hours of effort before that .
and yet , many of these get built .
at the other end of the scale , the game farmville that you may well have heard of , has 70 million players around the world and most of these players are playing it almost every day .
this may all sound really quite alarming to some people , an index of something worrying or wrong in society .
but we 're here for the good news , and the good news is that i think we can explore why this very real human effort , this very intense generation of value , is occurring .
and by answering that question , i think we can take something extremely powerful away .
and i think the most interesting way to think about how all this is going on is in terms of rewards .
and specifically , it 's in terms of the very intense emotional rewards that playing games offers to people both individually and collectively .
now if we look at what 's going on in someone 's head when they are being engaged , two quite different processes are occurring .
on the one hand , there 's the wanting processes .
this is a bit like ambition and drive -- i 'm going to do that . i 'm going to work hard .
on the other hand , there 's the liking processes , fun and affection and delight and an enormous flying beast with an orc on the back .
it 's a really great image . it 's pretty cool .
it 's from the game world of warcraft with more than 10 million players globally , one of whom is me , another of whom is my wife .
and this kind of a world , this vast flying beast you can ride around , shows why games are so very good at doing both the wanting and the liking .
because it 's very powerful . it 's pretty awesome .
it gives you great powers .
your ambition is satisfied , but it 's very beautiful .
it 's a very great pleasure to fly around .
and so these combine to form a very intense emotional engagement .
but this isn 't the really interesting stuff .
the really interesting stuff about virtuality is what you can measure with it .
because what you can measure in virtuality is everything .
every single thing that every single person who 's ever played in a game has ever done can be measured .
the biggest games in the world today are measuring more than one billion points of data about their players , about what everybody does -- far more detail than you 'd ever get from any website .
and this allows something very special to happen in games .
it 's something called the reward schedule .
and by this , i mean looking at what millions upon millions of people have done and carefully calibrating the rate , the nature , the type , the intensity of rewards in games to keep them engaged over staggering amounts of time and effort .
now , to try and explain this in sort of real terms , i want to talk about a kind of task that might fall to you in so many games .
go and get a certain amount of a certain little game-y item .
let 's say , for the sake of argument , my mission is to get 15 pies and i can get 15 pies by killing these cute , little monsters .
simple game quest .
now you can think about this , if you like , as a problem about boxes .
i 've got to keep opening boxes . i don 't know what 's inside them until i open them .
and i go around opening box after box until i 've got 15 pies .
now , if you take a game like warcraft , you can think about it , if you like , as a great box-opening effort .
the game 's just trying to get people to open about a million boxes , getting better and better stuff in them .
this sounds immensely boring but games are able to make this process incredibly compelling .
and the way they do this is through a combination of probability and data .
let 's think about probability .
if we want to engage someone in the process of opening boxes to try and find pies , we want to make sure it 's neither too easy , nor too difficult , to find a pie .
so what do you do ? well , you look at a million people -- no , 100 million people , 100 million box openers -- and you work out , if you make the pie rate about 25 percent -- that 's neither too frustrating , nor too easy . it keeps people engaged . but of course , that 's not all you do -- there 's 15 pies .
now , i could make a game called piecraft , where all you had to do was get a million pies or a thousand pies .
that would be very boring .
fifteen is a pretty optimal number .
you find that -- you know , between five and 20 is about the right number for keeping people going .
but we don 't just have pies in the boxes .
there 's 100 percent up here .
and what we do is make sure that every time a box is opened , there 's something in it , some little reward that keeps people progressing and engaged .
in most adventure games , it 's a little bit in-game currency , a little bit experience . but we don 't just do that either .
we also say there 's going to be loads of other items of varying qualities and levels of excitement .
there 's going to be a 10 percent chance you get a pretty good item .
there 's going to be a 0.1 percent chance you get an absolutely awesome item .
and each of these rewards is carefully calibrated to the item .
and also , we say , " well , how many monsters ? should i have the entire world full of a billion monsters ? "
no , we want one or two monsters on the screen at any one time .
so i 'm drawn on . it 's not too easy , not too difficult .
so all this is very powerful .
but we 're in virtuality . these aren 't real boxes .
so we can do some rather amazing things .
we notice , looking at all these people opening boxes , that when people get to about 13 out of 15 pies , their perception shifts , they start to get a bit bored , a bit testy .
they 're not rational about probability .
they think this game is unfair .
it 's not giving me my last two pies . i 'm going to give up .
if they 're real boxes , there 's not much we can do , but in a game we can just say , " right , well .
when you get to 13 pies , you 've got 75 percent chance of getting a pie now . "
keep you engaged . look at what people do -- adjust the world to match their expectation .
our games don 't always do this .
and one thing they certainly do at the moment is if you got a 0.1 percent awesome item , they make very sure another one doesn 't appear for a certain length of time to keep the value , to keep it special .
and the point is really that we evolved to be satisfied by the world in particular ways .
over tens and hundreds of thousands of years , we evolved to find certain things stimulating , and as very intelligent , civilized beings , we 're enormously stimulated by problem solving and learning .
but now , we can reverse engineer that and build worlds that expressly tick our evolutionary boxes .
so what does all this mean in practice ?
well , i 've come up with seven things that , i think , show how you can take these lessons from games and use them outside of games .
the first one is very simple : experience bars measuring progress -- something that 's been talked about brilliantly by people like jesse schell earlier this year .
it 's already been done at the university of indiana in the states , among other places .
it 's the simple idea that instead of grading people incrementally in little bits and pieces , you give them one profile character avatar which is constantly progressing in tiny , tiny , tiny little increments which they feel are their own .
and everything comes towards that , and they watch it creeping up , and they own that as it goes along .
second , multiple long and short-term aims -- 5,000 pies , boring , 15 pies , interesting .
so , you give people lots and lots of different tasks .
you say , it 's about doing 10 of these questions , but another task is turning up to 20 classes on time , but another task is collaborating with other people , another task is showing you 're working five times , another task is hitting this particular target .
you break things down into these calibrated slices that people can choose and do in parallel to keep them engaged and that you can use to point them towards individually beneficial activities .
third , you reward effort .
it 's your 100 percent factor . games are brilliant at this .
every time you do something , you get credit ; you get a credit for trying .
you don 't punish failure . you reward every little bit of effort -- a little bit of gold , a little bit of credit . you 've done 20 questions -- tick .
it all feeds in as minute reinforcement .
fourth , feedback .
this is absolutely crucial , and virtuality is dazzling at delivering this .
if you look at some of the most intractable problems in the world today that we 've been hearing amazing things about , it 's very , very hard for people to learn if they cannot link consequences to actions .
pollution , global warming , these things -- the consequences are distant in time and space .
it 's very hard to learn , to feel a lesson . but if you can model things for people , if you can give things to people that they can manipulate and play with and where the feedback comes , then they can learn a lesson , they can see , they can move on , they can understand .
and fifth , the element of uncertainty .
now this is the neurological goldmine , if you like , because a known reward excites people , but what really gets them going is the uncertain reward , the reward pitched at the right level of uncertainty , that they didn 't quite know whether they were going to get it or not .
the 25 percent . this lights the brain up .
and if you think about using this in testing , in just introducing control elements of randomness in all forms of testing and training , you can transform the levels of people 's engagement by tapping into this very powerful evolutionary mechanism . when we don 't quite predict something perfectly , we get really excited about it .
we just want to go back and find out more .
as you probably know , the neurotransmitter associated with learning is called dopamine .
it 's associated with reward-seeking behavior .
and something very exciting is just beginning to happen in places like the university of bristol in the u.k. , where we are beginning to be able to model mathematically dopamine levels in the brain .
and what this means is we can predict learning , we can predict enhanced engagement , these windows , these windows of time , in which the learning is taking place at an enhanced level .
and two things really flow from this .
the first has to do with memory , that we can find these moments .
when someone is more likely to remember , we can give them a nugget in a window .
and the second thing is confidence , that we can see how game-playing and reward structures make people braver , make them more willing to take risks , more willing to take on difficulty , harder to discourage . this can all seem very sinister .
but you know , sort of " our brains have been manipulated ; we 're all addicts . "
the word " addiction " is thrown around .
there are real concerns there .
but the biggest neurological turn-on for people is other people .
this is what really excites us .
in reward terms , it 's not money ; it 's not being given cash -- that 's nice -- it 's doing stuff with our peers , watching us , collaborating with us .
and i want to tell you a quick story about 1999 -- a video game called everquest .
and in this video game , there were two really big dragons , and you had to team up to kill them -- 42 people , up to 42 to kill these big dragons .
that 's a problem because they dropped two or three decent items .
so players addressed this problem by spontaneously coming up with a system to motivate each other , fairly and transparently .
what happened was , they paid each other a virtual currency they called " dragon kill points . "
and every time you turned up to go on a mission , you got paid in dragon kill points .
they tracked these on a separate website .
so they tracked their own private currency , and then players could bid afterwards for cool items they wanted -- all organized by the players themselves .
now the staggering system , not just that this worked in everquest , but that today , a decade on , every single video game in the world with this kind of task uses a version of this system -- tens of millions of people .
and the success rate is at close to 100 percent .
this is a player-developed , self-enforcing , voluntary currency , and it 's incredibly sophisticated player behavior .
and i just want to end by suggesting a few ways in which these principles could fan out into the world .
let 's start with business .
i mean , we 're beginning to see some of the big problems around something like business are recycling and energy conservation .
we 're beginning to see the emergence of wonderful technologies like real-time energy meters .
and i just look at this , and i think , yes , we could take that so much further by allowing people to set targets by setting calibrated targets , by using elements of uncertainty , by using these multiple targets , by using a grand , underlying reward and incentive system , by setting people up to collaborate in terms of groups , in terms of streets to collaborate and compete , to use these very sophisticated group and motivational mechanics we see .
in terms of education , perhaps most obviously of all , we can transform how we engage people .
we can offer people the grand continuity of experience and personal investment .
we can break things down into highly calibrated small tasks .
we can use calculated randomness .
we can reward effort consistently as everything fields together .
and we can use the kind of group behaviors that we see evolving when people are at play together , these really quite unprecedentedly complex cooperative mechanisms .
government , well , one thing that comes to mind is the u.s. government , among others , is literally starting to pay people to lose weight .
so we 're seeing financial reward being used to tackle the great issue of obesity .
but again , those rewards could be calibrated so precisely if we were able to use the vast expertise of gaming systems to just jack up that appeal , to take the data , to take the observations , of millions of human hours and plow that feedback into increasing engagement .
and in the end , it 's this word , " engagement , " that i want to leave you with .
it 's about how individual engagement can be transformed by the psychological and the neurological lessons we can learn from watching people that are playing games .
but it 's also about collective engagement and about the unprecedented laboratory for observing what makes people tick and work and play and engage on a grand scale in games .
and if we can look at these things and learn from them and see how to turn them outwards , then i really think we have something quite revolutionary on our hands .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / ellen _ gustafson _ obesity _ hunger _ 1 _ global _ food _ issue.html
co-creator of the philanthropic feed bags , ellen gustafson says hunger and obesity are two sides of the same coin . at tedxeast , she launches the 30 project -- a way to change how we farm and eat in the next 30 years , and solve the global food inequalities behind both epidemics .
food , global issues , health , social change
910
ellen gustafson : obesity + hunger = 1 global food issue
i 'm ellen , and i 'm totally obsessed with food .
but i didn 't start out obsessed with food .
i started out obsessed with global security policy because i lived in new york during 9 / 11 , and it was obviously a very relevant thing .
and i got from global security policy to food because i realized when i 'm hungry , i 'm really pissed off ,
and i 'm assuming that the rest of the world is too .
especially if you 're hungry and your kids are hungry and your neighbor 's kids are hungry and your whole neighborhood is hungry , you 're pretty angry .
and actually , lo and behold , it looks pretty much like the areas of the world that are hungry are also the areas of the world that are pretty insecure .
so i took a job at the united nations world food programme as a way to try to address these security issues through food security issues .
and while i was there , i came across what i think is the most brilliant of their programs .
it 's called school feeding , and it 's a really simple idea to sort of get in the middle of the cycle of poverty and hunger that continues for a lot of people around the world , and stop it .
by giving kids a free school meal , it gets them into school , which is obviously education , the first step out of poverty ,
but it also gives them the micronutrients and the macronutrients they need to really develop both mentally and physically .
while i was working at the u.n. , i met this girl . her name is lauren bush .
and she had this really awesome idea to sell the bag called the " feed bag " -- which is really beautifully ironic because you can strap on the feed bag .
but each bag we 'd sell would provide a year 's worth of school meals for one kid .
it 's so simple , and we thought , you know , okay , it costs between 20 and 50 bucks to provide school feeding for a year .
we could sell these bags and raise a ton of money and a ton of awareness for the world food programme .
but of course , you know at the u.n. , sometimes things move slowly , and they basically said no .
and we thought , god , this is such a good idea and it 's going to raise so much money .
so we said screw it , we 'll just start our own company , which we did three years ago .
so that was kind of my first dream , was to start this company called feed ,
and here 's a screenshot of our website .
we did this bag for haiti , and we launched it just a month after the earthquake to provide school meals for kids in haiti .
so feed 's doing great . we 've so far provided 55 million meals to kids around the world by selling now 550,000 bags , a ton of bags , a lot of bags .
all this time you 're -- when you think about hunger , it 's a hard thing to think about , because what we think about is eating .
i think about eating a lot , and i really love it .
and the thing that 's a little strange about international hunger and talking about international issues is that most people kind of want to know : " what are you doing in america ? "
" what are you doing for america 's kids ? "
there 's definitely hunger in america : 49 million people and almost 16.7 million children .
i mean that 's pretty dramatic for our own country .
hunger definitely means something a little bit different in america than it does internationally , but it 's incredibly important to address hunger in our own country .
but obviously the bigger problem that we all know about is obesity , and it 's dramatic .
the other thing that 's dramatic is that both hunger and obesity have really risen in the last 30 years .
unfortunately , obesity 's not only an american problem .
it 's actually been spreading all around the world and mainly through our kind of food systems that we 're exporting .
the numbers are pretty crazy .
there 's a billion people obese or overweight and a billion people hungry .
so those seem like two bifurcated problems , but i kind of started to think about , you know , what is obesity and hunger ? what are both those things about ?
well , they 're both about food .
and when you think about food , the underpinning of food in both cases is potentially problematic agriculture .
and agriculture is where food comes from .
well , agriculture in america 's very interesting .
it 's very consolidated ,
and the foods that are produced lead to the foods that we eat .
well , the foods that are produced are , more or less , corn , soy and wheat .
and as you can see , that 's three-quarters of the food that we 're eating for the most part : processed foods and fast foods .
unfortunately , in our agricultural system , we haven 't done a good job in the last three decades of exporting those technologies around the world .
so african agriculture , which is the place of most hunger in the world , has actually fallen precipitously as hunger has risen .
so somehow we 're not making the connect between exporting a good agricultural system that will help feed people all around the world .
who is farming them ? that 's what i was wondering .
so i went and stood on a big grain bin in the midwest ,
and that really didn 't help me understand farming , but i think it 's a really cool picture .
and you know , the reality is that between farmers in america , who actually , quite frankly , when i spend time in the midwest , are pretty large in general .
and their farms are also large .
but farmers in the rest of the world are actually quite skinny , and that 's because they 're starving .
most hungry people in the world are subsistence farmers .
and most of those people are women -- which is a totally other topic that i won 't get on right now , but i 'd love to do the feminist thing at some point .
i think it 's really interesting to look at agriculture from these two sides .
there 's this large , consolidated farming that 's led to what we eat in america ,
and it 's really been since around 1980 , after the oil crisis , when , you know , mass consolidation , mass exodus of small farmers in this country .
and then in the same time period , you know , we 've kind of left africa 's farmers to do their own thing .
unfortunately , what is farmed ends up as what we eat .
and in america , a lot of what we eat has led to obesity and has led to a real change in sort of what our diet is in the last 30 years .
it 's crazy .
a fifth of kids under two drinks soda .
hello . you don 't put soda in bottles .
but people do because it 's so cheap ,
and so our whole food system in the last 30 years has really shifted .
i think , you know , it 's not just in our own country , but really we 're exporting the system around the world ,
and when you look at the data of least developed countries -- especially in cities , which are growing really rapidly -- people are eating american processed foods .
and in one generation , they 're going from hunger , and all of the detrimental health effects of hunger , to obesity and things like diabetes and heart disease in one generation .
so the problematic food system is affecting both hunger and obesity .
not to beat a dead horse , but this is a global food system where there 's a billion people hungry and billion people obese .
i think that 's the only way to look at it .
and instead of taking these two things as bifurcated problems that are very separate , it 's really important to look at them as one system .
we get a lot of our food from all around the world ,
and people from all around the world are importing our food system ,
so it 's incredibly relevant to start a new way of looking at it .
the thing is , i 've learned -- and the technology people that are here , which i 'm totally not one of them -- but apparently , it really takes 30 years for a lot of technologies to become really endemic to us , like the mouse and the internet and windows .
you know , there 's 30-year cycles .
i think 2010 can be a really interesting year
because it is the end of the 30-year cycle ,
and it 's the birthday of the global food system .
so that 's the first birthday i want to talk about .
you know , i think if we really think that this is something that 's happened in the last 30 years , there 's hope in that .
it 's the thirtieth anniversary of gmo crops and the big gulp , chicken mcnuggets , high fructose corn syrup , the farm crisis in america and the change in how we 've addressed agriculture internationally .
so there 's a lot of reasons to take this 30-year time period as sort of the creation of this new food system .
i 'm not the only one who 's obsessed with this whole 30-year thing .
the icons like michael pollan and jamie oliver in his ted prize wish both addressed this last three-decade time period as incredibly relevant for food system change .
well , i really care about 1980 because it 's also the thirtieth anniversary of me this year .
and so in my lifetime , a lot of what 's happened in the world -- and being a person obsessed with food -- a lot of this has really changed .
so my second dream is that i think we can look to the next 30 years as a time to change the food system again .
and we know what 's happened in the past , so if we start now , and we look at technologies and improvements to the food system long term , we might be able to recreate the food system
so when i give my next talk and i 'm 60 years old , i 'll be able to say that it 's been a success .
so i 'm announcing today the start of a new organization , or a new fund within the feed foundation , called the 30 project .
and the 30 project is really focused on these long-term ideas for food system change .
and i think by aligning international advocates that are addressing hunger and domestic advocates that are addressing obesity , we might actually look for long-term solutions that will make the food system better for everyone .
we all tend to think that these systems are quite different ,
and people argue whether or not organic can feed the world ,
but if we take a 30-year view , there 's more hope in collaborative ideas .
so i 'm hoping that by connecting really disparate organizations like the one campaign and slow food , which don 't seem right now to have much in common , we can talk about holistic , long-term , systemic solutions that will improve food for everyone .
some ideas i 've had is like , look , the reality is -- kids in the south bronx need apples and carrots and so do kids in botswana .
and how are we going to get those kids those nutritious foods ?
another thing that 's become incredibly global is production of meat and fish .
understanding how to produce protein in a way that 's healthy for the environment and healthy for people will be incredibly important to address things like climate change and how we use petrochemical fertilizers .
and you know , these are really relevant topics that are long term and important for both people in africa who are small farmers and people in america who are farmers and eaters .
and i also think that thinking about processed foods in a new way , where we actually price the negative externalities like petrochemicals and like fertilizer runoff into the price of a bag of chips .
well , if that bag of chips then becomes inherently more expensive than an apple , then maybe it 's time for a different sense of personal responsibility in food choice because the choices are actually choices instead of three-quarters of the products being made just from corn , soy and wheat .
the 30project.org is launched , and i 've gathered a coalition of a few organizations to start .
and it 'll be growing over the next few months .
but i really hope that you will all think of ways that you can look long term at things like the food system and make change .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / joshua _ prince _ ramus _ building _ a _ theater _ that _ remakes _ itself.html
joshua prince-ramus believes that if architects re-engineer their design process , the results can be spectacular . speaking at tedxsmu , dallas , he walks us through his fantastic re-creation of the local wyly theater as a giant " theatrical machine " that reconfigures itself at the touch of a button .
architecture , arts , creativity , design , theater
750
joshua prince-ramus : building a theater that remakes itself
i 'm going to speak to you today about architectural agency .
what i mean by that is that it 's time for architecture to do things again , not just represent things .
this is a construction helmet that i received two years ago at the groundbreaking of the largest project i , and my firm , have ever been involved in .
i was thrilled to get it . i was thrilled to be the only person standing on the stage with a shiny silver helmet .
i thought it represented the importance of the architect .
i stayed thrilled until i got home ,
threw the helmet onto my bed , fell down onto my bed and realized inside there was an inscription .
now , i think that this is a great metaphor for the state of architecture and architects today .
we are for decorative purposes only .
now , who do we have to blame ?
we can only blame ourselves . over the last 50 years the design and construction industry has gotten much more complex and has gotten much more litigious .
and we architects are cowards .
so , as we have faced liability , we have stepped back and back , and unfortunately , where there is liability , guess what there is :
power .
so , eventually we have found ourselves in a totally marginalized position , way over here .
now , what did we do ? we 're cowards , but we 're smart cowards .
and so we redefined this marginalized position as the place of architecture .
and we announced , " hey , architecture , it 's over here , in this autonomous language we 're going to seed control of processes . " and we were going to do something that was horrible for the profession .
we actually created an artificial schism between creation and execution , as if you could actually create without knowing how to execute and as if you could actually execute without knowing how to create .
now , something else happened .
and that 's when we began to sell the world that architecture was created by individuals creating genius sketches .
and that the incredible amount of effort to deliver those sketches for years and years and years is not only something to be derided , but we would merely write it off as merely execution .
now i 'd argue that that is as absurd as stating that 30 minutes of copulation is the creative act , and nine months of gestation , and , god forbid , 24 hours of child labor is merely execution .
so , what do we architects need to do ? we need to stitch back creation and execution .
and we need to start authoring processes again instead of authoring objects .
now , if we do this , i believe we can go back 50 years and start reinjecting agency , social engineering , back into architecture .
now , there are all kinds of things that we architects need to learn how to do , like managing contracts , learning how to write contracts , understanding procurement processes , understanding the time value of money and cost estimation .
but i 'm going to reduce this to the beginning of the process , into three very pedantic statements .
the first is : take core positions with your client .
i know it 's shocking , right , that architecture would actually say that .
the second position is : actually take positions .
take joint positions with your client .
this is the moment in which you as the architect and your client can begin to inject vision and agency .
but it has to be done together .
and then only after this is done are you allowed to do this , begin to put forward architectural manifestations that manifest those positions .
and both owner and architect alike are empowered to critique those manifestations based on the positions that you 've taken .
now , i believe that one really amazing thing will happen if you do this .
i 'd like to call it the lost art of productively losing control .
you do not know what the end result is .
but i promise you , with enough brain power and enough passion and enough commitment , you will arrive at conclusions that will transcend convention , and will simply be something that you could not have initially or individually conceived of .
alright , now i 'm going to reduce all of this to a series of simple dumb sketches .
this is the modus operandi that we have today .
we roll 120-foot spartan , i.e. our vision , up to our clients ' gates of troy . and we don 't understand why they won 't let us in . right ?
well , how about instead of doing that , we roll up to the gates something they want .
now this is a little bit of a dangerous metaphor , because of course we all know that inside of the trojan horse were a bunch of people with spears .
so , we can change the metaphor . let 's call the trojan horse the vessel by which you get through the gate , get through the constraints of a project .
at which point , you and your client have the ability to start considering what you 're going to put inside that vessel ,
the agency , the vision .
and if you do that , you do that responsibly , i believe that instead of delivering spartans , you can deliver maidens .
and if i could summarize that all up into one single sketch it would be this .
if we are so good at our craft shouldn 't we be able to conceive of an architectural manifestation that slides seamlessly through the project 's and the client 's constraints ?
now , with that in mind , i 'm going to show a project that 's very dear to many people in this room-- well , maybe not dear , but certainly close to many people in this room .
and that 's a project that is just about to open next week , the new home for the dallas theater center , the dee and charles wyly theatre .
now , i 'm going to present it on the same terms : issue , position and architectural manifestation .
now , the first issue that we faced was that the dallas theater center had a notoriety that was beyond what you would expect of some place outside of the triumvirate of new york , chicago and seattle .
and this had to do with the ambitions of the leadership . but it also had to do with something rather unusual , and that was this horrible little building that they 'd been performing in .
why was this horrible little building so important to their renown and their innovation ?
because they could do whatever they wanted to to this building .
when you 're on broadway , you cannot tear the proscenium down .
this building , when an artistic director wanted to do a " cherry orchard " and wanted people and wanted people to come out of a well on the stage , they brought a backhoe in , and they simply dug the hole .
well , that 's exciting .
and you can start to get the best artistic directors , scenic designers and actors from around the country to come to perform here because you can do things you can 't do elsewhere .
so , the first position we took was , " hey , we as architects had better not show up and do a pristine building that doesn 't engender the same freedoms that this old dilapidated shed provided the company . " the second issue is a nuance of the first .
and that 's that the company and the building was multiform .
that meant that they were able to perform , as long as they had labor they were able to go between proscenium , thrust , flat floor , arena , traverse , you name it .
all they needed was labor .
well , something happened . in fact something happened to all institutions around the world .
it started to become hard to raise operational costs , operational budgets .
so , they stopped having inexpensive labor .
and eventually they had to freeze their organization into something called a bastardized thruscenium .
so , the second position we took is that the freedoms that we provided , the ability to move between stage configurations , had better be able to be done without relying on operational costs . alright ? affordably .
the architectural manifestation was frankly just dumb .
it was to take all the things that are known as front of house and back of house and redefine them as above house and below house .
at first blush you think , " hey it 's crazy , what could you possibly gain ? " we created what we like to call superfly .
now , superfly , the concept is you take all the freedoms you normally associate with the flytower , and you smear them across flytower and auditorium .
suddenly the artistic director can move between different stage and audience configurations .
and because that flytower has the ability to pick up all the pristine elements , suddenly the rest of the environment can be provisional . and you can drill , cut , nail , screw paint and replace , with a minimum of cost .
but there was a third advantage that we got by doing this move that was unexpected .
and that was that it freed up the perimeter of the auditorium in a most unusual way .
and that provided the artistic director suddenly the ability to define suspension of disbelief .
so , the building affords artistic directors the freedom to conceive of almost any kind of activity underneath this floating object .
but also to challenge the notion of suspension of disbelief such that in the last act of macbeth , if he or she wants you to associate the parable that you 're seeing with dallas , with your real life , he or she can do so .
now , in order to do this we and the clients had to do something fairly remarkable .
in fact it really was the clients who had to do it .
they had to make a decision , based on the positions we took to redefine the budget being from two thirds capital-a architecture and one-third infrastructure , to actually the inverse , two-thirds infrastructure and one-third capital-a architecture .
that 's a lot for a client to commit to before you actually see the fruition of the concept .
but based on the positions , they took the educated leap of faith to do so .
and effectively we created what we like to call a theater machine .
now , that theater machine has ability to move between a whole series of configurations at the push of a button and a few stagehands in a short amount of time .
but it also has the potential to not only provide multiform but multi-processional sequences .
meaning : the artistic director doesn 't necessarily need to go through our lobby .
one of the things that we learned when we visited various theaters is they hate us architects , because they say the first thing they have to do , the first five minutes of any show , is they have to get our architecture out of the mind of their patron .
well now there are potentials of this building to allow the artistic director to actually move into the building without using our architecture .
so , in fact , there is the building , there is what we call the draw . you 're going down into our lobby , go through the lobby with our own little dangly bits , whether you like them or not , up through the stair that leads you into the auditorium .
but there is also the potential to allow people to move directly from the outside , in this case suggesting kind of wagnerian entrance , into the interior of the auditorium .
and here is the fruition of that in actuality . these are the two large pivoting doors that allow people to move directly from the outside , in or from the inside , out , performers or audience alike .
now , imagine what that could be . i have to say honestly this is not something yet the building can do because it takes too long .
but imagine the freedoms if you could take this further , that in fact you could consider a wagnerian entry , a first act in thrust , an intermission in greek , a second act in arena , and you leave through our lobby with dangly bits .
now that , i would say , is architecture performing .
it is taking the hand of the architect to actually remove the hand of the architect in favor of the hand of the artistic director .
i 'll go through the three basic configurations .
this is the flat floor configuration .
you notice that there is no proscenium , the balconies have been raised up , there are no seats , the floor in the auditorium is flat .
the first configuration is easy to understand .
the balconies come down , you see that the orchestra begins to have a rake that 's frontal towards the end stage , and the seats come in .
the third configuration is a little harder to understand .
here you see that the balconies actually have to move out of the way in order to bring a thrust into the space .
and some of the seats need to actually change their direction , and change their rake , to allow that to happen .
i 'll do it again so you can see it .
there you see it 's the side balconies for the proscenium .
and there it is in the thrust configuration .
in order to do that , again , we needed a client who was willing to take educational risks .
and they told us one important thing :
" you shall not beta-test . " meaning , nothing that we do can we be the first ones to do it .
but they were willing for us to apply technologies from other areas that already had failsafe mechanisms to this building .
and the solution in terms of the balconies was to use something that we all know as a scoreboard lift .
now , if you were to take a scoreboard and drop it on dirt and whiskey , that would be bad .
if you were not able to take the scoreboard out of the arena and be able to do the ice capades the next night , that would also be bad .
and so this technology already had all the failsafe mechanisms and allowed the theater and our client to actually do this with confidence that they would be able to change over their configurations at will .
the second technology that we applied was actually using things that you know from the stage side of an opera house .
in this case what we 're doing is we 're taking the orchestra floor , lifting it up , spinning it , changing the rake , taking it back to flat floor , changing the rake again . in essence , you can begin to define rakes and viewing angles of people in the orchestra seating , at will .
here you see the chairs being spun around to go from proscenium or end stage to thrust configuration .
the proscenium , also . as far as we know this is the first building in the world in which the proscenium can entirely fly out of the space .
here you see the various acoustic baffles as well as the flying mechanisms and catwalks over the auditorium .
and ultimately , up in the flytower , the scene sets that allow the transformations to occur .
as i said , all that was in service of creating a flexible yet affordable configuration .
but we got this other benefit , and that was the ability of the perimeter to suddenly engage dallas on the outside .
here you see the building in its current state with blinds closed . this is a trompe l 'oeil .
actually this is not a curtain . these are vinyl blinds that are integrated into the windows themselves , again with failsafe mechanisms that can be lifted such that you can completely demystify , if you chose , the operations of the theater going on behind , rehearsals and so forth .
but you also have the ability to allow the audience to see dallas , to perform with dallas as the backdrop of your performance .
now , if i 'll take you through -- this is an early concept sketch -- take you through kind of a mixture of all these things together .
effectively you would have something like this .
you would be allowed to bring objects or performers into the performing chamber :
" aida , " their elephants , you can bring the elephants in .
you would be able to expose the auditorium to dallas or vice versa , dallas to the auditorium .
you 'd be able to open portions in order to change the procession , allow people to come in and out for an intermission , or to enter for the beginning or the end of a performance .
as i said , all the balconies can move , but they can also be disappeared completely .
the proscenium can fly .
you can bring large objects into the chamber itself .
but most convincingly when we had to confront the idea of changing costs from architecture to infrastructure , is something that is represented by this .
and again , this is not all the flexibilities of the building that is actually built , but at least suggests the ideas .
this building has the ability , in short order , to go back to a flat floor organization such that they can rent it out .
now , if there is anyone here from american airlines , please consider doing your christmas party here .
that allows the company to raise operational budgets without having to compete with other venues with much larger auditoriums .
that 's an enormous benefit .
so , the theater company has the ability to do totally hermetic , light-controlled , sound-controlled , great acoustics , great intimacy shakespeare , but can also do beckett with the skyline of dallas sitting behind it .
here it is in a flat floor configuration .
the theater has been going through its kind of paces .
here it is in an end stage configuration .
it 's actually beautiful . there was a rock band .
we stood outside trying to see if the acoustics worked , and you could see the guys doing this but you couldn 't hear them .
it was very unusual .
here it is in a thrust configuration .
and last but not least , you see this already has the ability to create events in order to generate operational budgets to overcome the building in fact performing to allow the company to overcome their biggest problem .
i 'm going to show you a brief time lapse .
as i said , this can be done with only two people , and with a minimum amount of time .
this is the first time that actually the changeover was done and so there is literally thousands of people because everyone was excited and wanted to be a part of it .
so , in a way try to disregard all the thousands of ants running around . and think of it being done with just a few people .
again , just a couple people are required .
i promise .
et voila .
so , just in conclusion , a few shots .
this is the at & t performing arts center 's dee and charles wyly theater .
there it is at night .
and last but not least the entire at & t performing arts center .
you can see the winspear opera house on the right and the dee and charles wyly theater on the left .
and to remind you that here is an example in which architecture actually did something . but we got to that conclusion without understanding where we were going ,
what we knew were a series of issues that the company and the client was confronted with .
and we took positions with them , and it was through those positions that we began to take architectural manifestations and we arrived at a conclusion that none of us , really none of us could ever have conceived of initially or individually .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jonathan _ harris _ collects _ stories.html
at the eg conference in december 2007 , artist jonathan harris discusses his latest projects , which involve collecting stories : his own , strangers ' , and stories collected from the internet , including his amazing " we feel fine . "
art , arts , culture , entertainment , global issues , happiness , software , storytelling , web
316
jonathan harris collects stories
so i 'm going to talk today about collecting stories in some unconventional ways .
this is a picture of me from a very awkward stage in my life .
you might enjoy the awkwardly tight , cut-off pajama bottoms with balloons .
anyway , it was a time when i was mainly interested in collecting imaginary stories .
so this is a picture of me holding one of the first watercolor paintings i ever made .
and recently i 've been much more interested in collecting stories from reality -- so , real stories .
and specifically , i 'm interested in collecting my own stories , stories from the internet , and then recently , stories from life , which is kind of a new area of work that i 've been doing recently .
so i 'll be talking about each of those today .
so , first of all , my own stories . these are two of my sketchbooks .
i have many of these books , and i 've been keeping them for about the last eight or nine years .
they accompany me wherever i go in my life , and i fill them with all sorts of things , records of my lived experience :
so watercolor paintings , drawings of what i see , dead flowers , dead insects , pasted ticket stubs , rusting coins , business cards , writings .
and in these books , you can find these short , little glimpses of moments and experiences and people that i meet .
and , you know , after keeping these books for a number of years , i started to become very interested in collecting not only my own personal artifacts , but also the artifacts of other people .
so , i started collecting found objects .
this is a photograph i found lying in a gutter in new york city about 10 years ago .
on the front , you can see the tattered black-and-white photo of a woman 's face , and on the back it says , " to judy , the girl with the bill bailey voice . have fun in whatever you do . "
and i really loved this idea of the partial glimpse into somebody 's life . as opposed to knowing the whole story , just knowing a little bit of the story , and then letting your own mind fill in the rest .
and that idea of a partial glimpse is something that will come back in a lot of the work i 'll be showing later today .
so , around this time i was studying computer science at princeton university , and i noticed that it was suddenly possible to collect these sorts of personal artifacts , not just from street corners , but also from the internet .
and that suddenly , people , en masse , were leaving scores and scores of digital footprints online that told stories of their private lives .
blog posts , photographs , thoughts , feelings , opinions , all of these things were being expressed by people online , and leaving behind trails .
so , i started to write computer programs that study very , very large sets of these online footprints .
one such project is about a year and a half old .
it 's called " we feel fine . "
this is a project that scans the world 's newly posted blog entries every two or three minutes , searching for occurrences of the phrases " i feel " and " i am feeling . " and when it finds one of those phrases , it grabs the full sentence up to the period and also tries to identify demographic information about the author .
so , their gender , their age , their geographic location and what the weather conditions were like when they wrote that sentence .
it collects about 20,000 such sentences a day and it 's been running for about a year and a half , having collected over 10 and a half million feelings now .
this is , then , how they 're presented .
these dots here represent some of the english-speaking world 's feelings from the last few hours ,
each dot being a single sentence stated by a single blogger .
and the color of each dot corresponds to the type of feeling inside , so the bright ones are happy , and the dark ones are sad .
and the diameter of each dot corresponds to the length of the sentence inside .
so the small ones are short , and the bigger ones are longer .
" i feel fine with the body i 'm in , there 'll be no easy excuse for why i still feel uncomfortable being close to my boyfriend , " from a twenty-two-year-old in japan .
" i got this on some trading locally , but really don 't feel like screwing with wiring and crap . "
also , some of the feelings contain photographs in the blog posts . and when that happens , these montage compositions are automatically created , which consist of the sentence and images being combined .
and any of these can be opened up to reveal the sentence inside .
" i feel good . "
" i feel rough now , and i probably gained 100,000 pounds , but it was worth it . "
" i love how they were able to preserve most in everything that makes you feel close to nature -- butterflies , man-made forests , limestone caves and hey , even a huge python . "
so the next movement is called mobs .
this provides a slightly more statistical look at things .
this is showing the world 's most common feelings overall right now , dominated by better , then bad , then good , then guilty , and so on .
weather causes the feelings to assume the physical traits of the weather they represent . so the sunny ones swirl around , the cloudy ones float along , the rainy ones fall down , and the snowy ones flutter to the ground .
you can also stop a raindrop and open the feeling inside .
finally , location causes the feelings to move to their spots on a world map , giving you a sense of their geographic distribution .
so i 'll show you now some of my favorite montages from " we feel fine . "
these are the images that are automatically constructed .
" i feel like i 'm diagonally parked in a parallel universe . "
" i 've kissed numerous other boys and it hasn 't felt good , the kisses felt messy and wrong , but kissing lucas feels beautiful and almost spiritual . "
" i can feel my cancer grow . "
" i feel pretty . "
" i feel skinny , but i 'm not . "
" i 'm 23 , and a recovering meth and heroin addict , and feel absolutely blessed to still be alive . "
" i can 't wait to see them racing for the first time at daytona next month , because i feel the need for speed . "
" i feel sassy . "
" i feel so sexy in this new wig . "
as you can see , " we feel fine " collects very , very small-scale personal stories .
sometimes , stories as short as two or three words .
so , really even challenging the notion of what can be considered a story .
and recently , i 've become interested in diving much more deeply into a single story .
and that 's led me to doing some work with the physical world , not with the internet , and only using the internet at the very last moment , as a presentation medium .
so these are some newer projects that actually aren 't even launched publicly yet .
the first such one is called " the whale hunt . " last may , i spent nine days living up in barrow , alaska , the northernmost settlement in the united states , with a family of inupiat eskimos , documenting their annual spring whale hunt .
this is the whaling camp here , we 're about six miles from shore , camping on five and a half feet of thick , frozen pack ice .
and that water that you see there is the open lead , and through that lead , bowhead whales migrate north each springtime .
and the eskimo community basically camps out on the edge of the ice here , waits for a whale to come close enough to attack . and when it does , it throws a harpoon at it , and then hauls the whale up under the ice , and cuts it up .
and that would provide the community 's food supply for a long time .
so i went up there , and i lived with these guys out in their whaling camp here , and photographed the entire experience , beginning with the taxi ride to newark airport in new york , and ending with the butchering of the second whale , seven and a half days later .
i photographed that entire experience at five-minute intervals .
so every five minutes , i took a photograph .
when i was awake , with the camera around my neck . when i was sleeping , with a tripod and a timer .
and then in moments of high adrenaline , like when something exciting was happening , i would up that photographic frequency to as many as 37 photographs in five minutes .
so what this created was a photographic heartbeat that sped up and slowed down , more or less matching the changing pace of my own heartbeat .
that was the first concept here .
the second concept was to use this experience to think about the fundamental components of any story .
what are the things that make up a story ?
so , stories have characters . stories have concepts .
stories take place in a certain area . they have contexts .
they have colors . what do they look like ?
they have time . when did it take place ? dates -- when did it occur ?
and in the case of the whale hunt , also this idea of an excitement level .
the thing about stories , though , in most of the existing mediums that we 're accustomed to -- things like novels , radio , photographs , movies , even lectures like this one -- we 're very accustomed to this idea of the narrator or the camera position ,
some kind of omniscient , external body through whose eyes you see the story .
we 're very used to this .
but if you think about real life , it 's not like that at all .
i mean , in real life , things are much more nuanced and complex , and there 's all of these overlapping stories intersecting and touching each other .
and so i thought it would be interesting to build a framework to surface those types of stories . so , in the case of " the whale hunt , " how could we extract something like the story of simeon and crawford , involving the concepts of wildlife , tools and blood , taking place on the arctic ocean , dominated by the color red , happening around 10 a.m. on may 3 , with an excitement level of high ?
so , how to extract this order of narrative from this larger story ?
i built a web interface for viewing " the whale hunt " that attempts to do just this .
so these are all 3,214 pictures taken up there .
this is my studio in brooklyn . this is the arctic ocean , and the butchering of the second whale , seven days later .
you can start to see some of the story here , told by color .
so this red strip signifies the color of the wallpaper in the basement apartment where i was staying .
and things go white as we move out onto the arctic ocean .
introduction of red down here , when whales are being cut up .
you can see a timeline , showing you the exciting moments throughout the story .
these are organized chronologically .
wheel provides a slightly more playful version of the same , so these are also all the photographs organized chronologically .
and any of these can be clicked , and then the narrative is entered at that position .
so here i am sleeping on the airplane heading up to alaska .
that 's " moby dick . "
this is the food we ate .
this is in the patkotak 's family living room in their house in barrow . the boxed wine they served us .
cigarette break outside -- i don 't smoke .
this is a really exciting sequence of me sleeping .
this is out at whale camp , on the arctic ocean .
this graph that i 'm clicking down here is meant to be reminiscent of a medical heartbeat graph , showing the exciting moments of adrenaline .
this is the ice starting to freeze over . the snow fence they built .
and so what i 'll show you now is the ability to pull out sub-stories .
so , here you see the cast . these are all of the people in " the whale hunt " and the two whales that were killed down here .
and we could do something as arbitrary as , say , extract the story of rony , involving the concepts of blood and whales and tools , taking place on the arctic ocean , at ahkivgaq camp , with the heartbeat level of fast .
and now we 've whittled down that whole story to just 29 matching photographs , and then we can enter the narrative at that position .
and you can see rony cutting up the whale here .
these whales are about 40 feet long , and weighing over 40 tons . and they provide the food source for the community for much of the year .
skipping ahead a bit more here , this is rony on the whale carcass .
they use no chainsaws or anything ; it 's entirely just blades , and an incredibly efficient process .
this is the guys on the rope , pulling open the carcass .
this is the muktuk , or the blubber , all lined up for community distribution .
it 's baleen . moving on .
so what i 'm going to tell you about next is a very new thing . it 's not even a project yet .
so , just yesterday , i flew in here from singapore , and before that , i was spending two weeks in bhutan , the small himalayan kingdom nestled between tibet and india .
and i was doing a project there about happiness , interviewing a lot of local people .
so bhutan has this really wacky thing where they base most of their high-level governmental decisions around the concept of gross national happiness instead of gross domestic product , and they 've been doing this since the ' 70s .
and it leads to just a completely different value system .
it 's an incredibly non-materialistic culture , where people don 't have a lot , but they 're incredibly happy .
so i went around and i talked to people about some of these ideas .
so , i did a number of things . i asked people a number of set questions , and took a number of set photographs , and interviewed them with audio , and also took pictures .
i would start by asking people to rate their happiness between one and 10 , which is kind of inherently absurd .
and then when they answered , i would inflate that number of balloons and give them that number of balloons to hold .
so , you have some really happy person holding 10 balloons , and some really sad soul holding one balloon .
but you know , even holding one balloon is like , kind of happy .
and then i would ask them a number of questions like what was the happiest day in their life , what makes them happy .
and then finally , i would ask them to make a wish .
and when they made a wish , i would write their wish onto one of the balloons and take a picture of them holding it .
so i 'm going to show you now just a few brief snippets of some of the interviews that i did , some of the people i spoke with .
this is an 11-year-old student .
he was playing cops and robbers with his friends , running around town , and they all had plastic toy guns .
his wish was to become a police officer .
he was getting started early . those were his hands .
i took pictures of everybody 's hands , because i think you can often tell a lot about somebody from how their hands look . i took a portrait of everybody , and asked everybody to make a funny face .
a 17-year-old student . her wish was to have been born a boy .
she thinks that women have a pretty tough go of things in bhutan , and it 's a lot easier if you 're a boy .
a 28-year-old cell phone shop owner .
if you knew what paro looked like , you 'd understand how amazing it is that there 's a cell phone shop there .
he wanted to help poor people .
a 53-year-old farmer . she was chaffing wheat , and that pile of wheat behind her had taken her about a week to make .
she wanted to keep farming until she dies .
you can really start to see the stories told by the hands here .
she was wearing this silver ring that had the word " love " engraved on it , and she 'd found it in the road somewhere .
a 16-year-old quarry worker .
this guy was breaking rocks with a hammer in the hot sunlight , but he just wanted to spend his life as a farmer .
a 21-year-old monk . he was very happy .
he wanted to live a long life at the monastery .
he had this amazing series of hairs growing out of a mole on the left side of his face , which i 'm told is very good luck .
he was kind of too shy to make a funny face .
a 16-year-old student .
she wanted to become an independent woman .
i asked her about that , and she said she meant that she doesn 't want to be married , because , in her opinion , when you get married in bhutan as a woman , your chances to live an independent life kind of end , and so she had no interest in that .
a 24-year-old truck driver .
there are these terrifyingly huge indian trucks that come careening around one-lane roads with two-lane traffic , with 3,000-foot drop-offs right next to the road , and he was driving one of these trucks .
but all he wanted was to just live a comfortable life , like other people .
a 24-year-old road sweeper . i caught her on her lunch break .
she 'd built a little fire to keep warm , right next to the road .
her wish was to marry someone with a car .
she wanted a change in her life .
she lives in a little worker 's camp right next to the road , and she wanted a different lot on things .
an 81-year-old itinerant farmer .
i saw this guy on the side of the road , and he actually doesn 't have a home .
he travels from farm to farm each day trying to find work , and then he tries to sleep at whatever farm he gets work at .
so his wish was to come with me , so that he had somewhere to live .
he had this amazing knife that he pulled out of his gho and started brandishing when i asked him to make a funny face .
it was all good-natured .
a 10-year-old .
he wanted to join a school and learn to read , but his parents didn 't have enough money to send him to school .
he was eating this orange , sugary candy that he kept dipping his fingers into , and since there was so much saliva on his hands , this orange paste started to form on his palms .
a 37-year-old road worker .
one of the more touchy political subjects in bhutan is the use of indian cheap labor that they import from india to build the roads , and then they send these people home once the roads are built .
so these guys were in a worker 's gang mixing up asphalt one morning on the side of the highway .
his wish was to make some money and open a store .
a 75-year-old farmer . she was selling oranges on the side of the road .
i asked her about her wish , and she said , " you know , maybe i 'll live , maybe i 'll die , but i don 't have a wish . "
she was chewing betel nut , which caused her teeth over the years to turn very red .
finally , this is a 26-year-old nun i spoke to .
her wish was to make a pilgrimage to tibet .
i asked her how long she planned to live in the nunnery and she said , " well , you know , of course , it 's impermanent , but my plan is to live here until i 'm 30 , and then enter a hermitage . "
and i said , " you mean , like a cave ? " and she said , " yeah , like a cave . "
and i said , " wow , and how long will you live in the cave ? "
and she said , " well , you know , i think i 'd kind of like to live my whole life in the cave . "
i just thought that was amazing . i mean , she spoke in a way -- with amazing english , and amazing humor , and amazing laughter -- that made her seem like somebody i could have bumped into on the streets of new york , or in vermont , where i 'm from .
but here she had been living in a nunnery for the last seven years .
i asked her a little bit more about the cave and what she planned would happen once she went there , you know .
what if she saw the truth after just one year , what would she do for the next 35 years in her life ?
and this is what she said .
woman : i think i 'm going to stay for 35 . maybe -- maybe i 'll die .
jonathan harris : maybe you 'll die ? woman : yes .
jh : 10 years ? woman : yes , yes . jh : 10 years , that 's a long time .
woman : yes , not maybe one , 10 years , maybe i can die within one year , or something like that .
jh : are you hoping to ?
woman : ah , because you know , it 's impermanent .
jh : yeah , but -- yeah , ok . do you hope -- would you prefer to live in the cave for 40 years , or to live for one year ?
woman : but i prefer for maybe 40 to 50 .
jh : 40 to 50 ? yeah .
woman : yes . from then , i 'm going to the heaven .
jh : well , i wish you the best of luck with it .
woman : thank you .
jh : i hope it 's everything that you hope it will be .
so thank you again , so much .
woman : you 're most welcome .
jh : so if you caught that , she said she hoped to die when she was around 40 . that was enough life for her .
so , the last thing we did , very quickly , is i took all those wish balloons -- there were 117 interviews , 117 wishes -- and i brought them up to a place called dochula , which is a mountain pass in bhutan , at 10,300 feet , one of the more sacred places in bhutan .
and up there , there are thousands of prayer flags that people have spread out over the years .
and we re-inflated all of the balloons , put them up on a string , and hung them up there among the prayer flags .
and they 're actually still flying up there today .
so if any of you have any bhutan travel plans in the near future , you can go check these out . here are some images from that .
we said a buddhist prayer so that all these wishes could come true .
you can start to see some familiar balloons here .
" to make some money and to open a store " was the indian road worker .
thanks very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / golan _ levin _ on _ software _ as _ art.html
engineer and artist golan levin pushes the boundaries of what 's possible with audiovisuals and technology . in an amazing ted display , he shows two programs he wrote to perform his original compositions .
art , arts , entertainment , invention , music , performance , software , technology
14
golan levin on software art
imagine spending seven years at mit and research laboratories , only to find out that you 're a performance artist .
i 'm also a software engineer , and i make lots of different kinds of art with the computer .
and i think the main thing that i 'm interested in is trying to find a way of making the computer into a personal mode of expression .
and many of you out there are the heads of macromedia and microsoft , and in a way those are my bane :
i think there 's a great homogenizing force that software imposes on people and limits the way they think about what 's possible on the computer .
of course , it 's also a great liberating force that makes possible , you know , publishing and so forth , and standards , and so on .
but , in a way , the computer makes possible much more than what most people think , and my art has just been about trying to find a personal way of using the computer , and so i end up writing software to do that .
chris has asked me to do a short performance , and so i 'm going to take just this time -- maybe 10 minutes -- to do that , and hopefully at the end have just a moment to show you a couple of my other projects in video form .
thank you .
we 've got about a minute left .
i 'd just like to show a clip from a most recent project .
i did a performance with two singers who specialize in making strange noises with their mouths .
and this just came off last september at ars electronica ; we repeated it in england .
and the idea is to visualize their speech and song behind them with a large screen .
we used a computer vision tracking system in order to know where they were .
and since we know where their heads are , and we have a wireless mic on them that we 're processing the sound from , we 're able to create visualizations which are linked very tightly to what they 're doing with their speech .
this will take about 30 seconds or so .
he 's making a , kind of , cheek-flapping sound .
well , suffice it to say it 's not all like that , but that 's part of it .
thanks very much . there 's always lots more .
i 'm overtime , so i just wanted to say you can , if you 're in new york , you can check out my work at the whitney biennial next week , and also at bitforms gallery in chelsea .
and with that , i think i should give up the stage ,
so , thank you so much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / george _ whitesides _ a _ lab _ the _ size _ of _ a _ postage _ stamp.html
traditional lab tests for disease diagnosis can be too expensive and cumbersome for the regions most in need . george whitesides ' ingenious answer , at tedxboston , is a foolproof tool that can be manufactured at virtually zero cost .
chemistry , development , disease , poverty , science , technology
760
george whitesides : a lab the size of a postage stamp
the problem that i want to talk with you about is really the problem of : how does one supply healthcare in a world in which cost is everything ?
how do you do that ?
and the basic paradigm we want to suggest to you , i want to suggest to you , is treat disease you have to first know what you 're treating -- that 's diagnostics -- and then you have to do something .
so , the program that we 're involved in is something which we call diagnostics for all , or zero-cost diagnostics .
how do you provide medically relevant information at as close as possible to zero cost ? how do you do it ?
let me just give you two examples .
the rigors of military medicine are not so dissimilar from the third world -- poor resources , a rigorous environment , a series of problems in lightweight , and things of this kind --
and also not so different from the home healthcare and diagnostic system world .
so , the technology that i want to talk about is for the third world , for the developing world , but it has , i think , much broader application , because information is so important in the healthcare system .
so , you see two examples here .
one is a lab that is actually a fairly high-end laboratory in africa .
the second is basically an entrepreneur who is set up and doing who-knows-what in a table in a market .
i don 't know what kind of healthcare is delivered there .
but it 's not really what is probably most efficient .
what is our approach ?
and the way in which one typically approaches a problem of lowering cost , starting from the perspective of the united states , is to take our solution , and then to try to cut cost out of it .
no matter how you do that , you 're not going to start with a 100,000-dollar instrument and bring it down to no-cost . it isn 't going to work .
so , the approach that we took was the other way around .
to ask , " what is the cheapest possible stuff that you could make a diagnostic system out of , and get useful information , add function ? " and what we 've chosen is paper .
what you see here is a prototypic device .
it 's about a centimeter on the side .
it 's about the size of a fingernail .
the lines around the edges are a polymer .
it 's made of paper and paper , of course , wicks fluid ,
as you know , paper , cloth -- drop wine on the tablecloth , and the wine wicks all over everything .
put it on your shirt , it ruins the shirt .
that 's what a hydrophilic surface does .
so , in this device the idea is that you drip the bottom end of it in a drop of , in this case , urine .
the fluid wicks its way into those chambers at the top .
the brown color indicates the amount of glucose in the urine ,
the blue color indicates the amount of protein in the urine .
and the combination of those two
is a first order shot at a number of useful things that you want .
so , this is an example of a device made from a simple piece of paper .
now , how simple can you make the production ?
why do we choose paper ?
there 's an example of the same thing on a finger , showing you basically what it looks like .
one reason for using paper is that it 's everywhere .
we have made these kinds of devices using napkins and toilet paper and wraps , and all kinds of stuff .
so , the production capability is there .
the second is , you can put lots and lots of tests in a very small place .
i 'll show you in a moment that the stack of paper there would probably hold something like 100,000 tests , something of that kind .
and then finally , a point that you don 't think of so much in developed world medicine : it eliminates sharps .
and what sharps means is needles , things that stick .
if you 've taken a sample of someone 's blood and the someone might have hepatitis c , you don 't want to make a mistake and stick it in you .
it just -- you don 't want to do that .
so , how do you dispose of that ? it 's a problem everywhere .
and here you simply burn it .
so , it 's a sort of a practical approach to starting on things .
now , you say , " if paper is a good idea , other people have surely thought of it . "
and the answer is , of course , yes .
those half of you , roughly , who are women , at some point may have had a pregnancy test .
and the most common of these is in a device that looks like the thing on the left .
it 's something called a lateral flow immunoassay .
in that particular test , urine either , containing a hormone called hcg , does or does not flow across a piece of paper .
and there are two bars . one bar indicates that the test is working ,
and if the second bar shows up , you 're pregnant .
this is a terrific kind of test in a binary world ,
and the nice thing about pregnancy is either you are pregnant or you 're not pregnant .
you 're not partially pregnant or thinking about being pregnant or something of that sort .
so , it works very well there ,
but it doesn 't work very well when you need more quantitative information .
there are also dipsticks ,
but if you look at the dipsticks , they 're for another kind of urine analysis .
there are an awful lot of colors and things like that .
what do you actually do about that in a difficult circumstance ?
so , the approach that we started with is to ask : is it really practical to make things of this sort ?
and that problem is now , in a purely engineering way , solved .
and the procedure that we have is simply to start with paper .
you run it through a new kind of printer called a wax printer .
the wax printer does what looks like printing .
it is printing . you put that on , you warm it a little bit ,
the wax prints through so it absorbs into the paper ,
and you end up with the device that you want .
the printers cost 800 bucks now .
they 'll make , we estimate that if you were to run them 24 hours a day they 'd make about 10 million tests a year .
so , it 's a solved problem , that particular problem is solved .
and there is an example of the kind of thing that you see .
that 's on a piece of 8 by 12 paper .
that takes about two seconds to make .
and so i regard that as done .
there is a very important issue here , which is that because it 's a printer , a color printer , it prints colors . that 's what color printers do .
i 'll show you in a moment , that 's actually quite useful .
now , the next question that you would like to ask is : what would you like to measure ? what would you like to analyze ?
and the thing which you 'd most like to analyze , we 're a fair distance from .
it 's what 's called " fever of undiagnosed origin . "
someone comes into the clinic , they have a fever , they feel bad . what do they have ?
do they have t.b. ? do they have aids ?
do they have a common cold ?
the triage problem . that 's a hard problem for reasons that i won 't go through .
there are an awful lot of things that you 'd like to distinguish among .
but then there are a series of things : aids , hepatitis , malaria , tb , others
and simpler ones , such as guidance of treatment .
now even that 's more complicated than you think .
a friend of mine works in transcultural psychiatry ,
and he is interested in the question of why people do and don 't take their meds .
so , dapsone , or something like that , you have to take it for a while .
he has a wonderful story of talking to a villager in india
and saying , " have you taken your dapsone ? " " yes . "
" have you taken it every day ? " " yes . " " have you taken if for a month ? " " yes . "
what the guy actually meant was that he 'd fed a 30-day dose of dapsone to his dog , that morning .
he was telling the truth . because in a different culture , the dog is a surrogate for you , you know , " today , " " this month , " " since the rainy season " -- there are lots of opportunities for misunderstanding ,
and so an issue here is to , in some cases , to figure out how to deal with matters that seem uninteresting , like compliance .
now , take a look at what a typical test looks like .
prick a finger , you get some blood , about 50 microliters .
that 's about all you 're going to get ,
because you can 't use the usual sort of systems .
you can 't manipulate it very well , although i 'll show something about that in a moment .
so , you take the drop of blood , no further manipulations ,
you put it on a little device ,
the device filters out the blood cells , lets the serum go through , and you get a series of colors down in the bottom there .
and the colors indicate " disease " or " normal . "
but even that 's complicated ,
because to you , to me , colors might indicate " normal , "
but , after all , we 're all suffering from probably an excess of education .
what you do about something which requires quantitative analysis ?
and so the solution that we and many other people are thinking about there , and at this point there is a dramatic flourish , and out comes the universal solution to everything these days , which is a cell phone . in this particular case , a camera phone .
they 're everywhere , six billion a month in india .
and the idea is that what one does , is to take the device ,
you dip it , you develop the color ,
you take a picture , the picture goes to a central laboratory .
you don 't have to send out a doctor ,
you send out somebody who can just take the sample ,
and in the clinic either a doctor , or ideally a computer in this case , does the analysis .
turns out to work actually quite well , particularly when your color printer has printed the color bars that indicate how things work .
so , my view of the health care worker of the future is not a doctor , but is an 18-year-old , otherwise unemployed , who has two things : he has a backpack full of these tests ,
and a lancet to occasionally take a blood sample , and an ak-47 .
and these are the things that get him through his day .
there 's another very interesting connection here ,
and that is that what one wants to do is to pass through useful information over what is generally a pretty awful telephone system .
it turns out there 's an enormous amount of information already available on that subject , which is the mars rover problem .
how do you get back an accurate view of the color on mars if you have a really terrible bandwidth to do it with ?
and the answer is not complicated but it 's one which i don 't want to go through here , other than to say that the communication systems for doing this are really pretty well understood .
also , a fact which you may not know is that the compute capability of this thing is not so different from the compute capability of your desktop computer .
this is a fantastic device which is only beginning to be tapped .
i don 't know whether the idea of one computer , one child makes any sense . here 's the computer of the future ,
because this screen is already there and they 're ubiquitous .
all right now let me show you just a little bit about advanced devices .
and we 'll start by posing a little problem .
what you see here is another centimeter-sized device ,
and the different colors are different colors of dye .
and you notice something which might strike you as a little bit interesting , which is the yellow seems to disappear , get through the blue , and then get through the red .
how does that happen ? how do you make something flow through something ?
and , of course the answer is , " you don 't . "
you make it flow under and over .
but now the question is : how do you make it flow under and over in a piece of paper ?
the answer is that what you do , and the details are not terribly important here , is to make something more elaborate : you take several different layers of paper , each one containing its own little fluid system , and you separate them by pieces of , literally , double-sided carpet tape , the stuff you use to stick the carpets onto the floor .
and the fluid will flow from one layer into the next .
it distributes itself , flows through further holes , distributes itself .
and what you see , at the lower right-hand side there , is a sample in which a single sample of blood has been put on the top , and it has gone through and distributed itself into these 16 holes on the bottom , in a piece of paper -- basically it looks like a chip , two pieces of paper thick .
and in this particular case we were just interested in the replicability of that .
but that is , in principle , the way you solve the " fever of unexplained origin " problem ,
because each one of those spots then becomes a test for a particular set of markers of disease ,
and this will work in due course .
here is an example of a slightly more complicated device .
there 's the chip .
you dip in a corner . the fluid goes into the center .
it distributes itself out into these various wells or holes , and turns color ,
and all done with paper and carpet tape .
so , i think it 's as low-cost as we 're likely to be able to come up and make things .
now , i have one last , two last little stories to tell you , in finishing off this business .
this is one : one of the things that one does occasionally need to do is to separate blood cells from serum .
and the question was , here we do it by taking a sample ,
we put it in a centrifuge ,
we spin it , and you get blood cells out . terrific .
what happens if you don 't have an electricity , and a centrifuge , and whatever ?
and we thought for a while of how you might do this
and the way , in fact , you do it is what 's shown here .
you get an eggbeater , which is everywhere , and you saw off a blade ,
and then you take tubing , and you stick it on that . you put the blood in , you spin it --
somebody sits there and spins it .
it works really , really well .
and we sat down , we did the physics of eggbeaters and self-aligning tubes and all the rest of that kind of thing , sent it off to a journal .
we were very proud of this , particularly the title , which was " eggbeater as centrifuge . "
and we sent it off , and by return mail it came back .
i called up the editor and i said , " what 's going on ? how is this possible ? "
the editor said , with enormous disdain , " i read this .
and we 're not going to publish it , because we only publish science . "
and it 's an important issue because it means that we have to , as a society , think about what we value .
and if it 's just papers and phys. rev. letters , we 've got a problem .
here is another example of something which is --
this is a little spectrophotometer .
it measures the absorption of light in a sample
the neat thing about this is , you have light source that flickers on and off at about 1,000 hertz ,
another light source that detects that light at 1,000 hertz ,
and so you can run this system in broad daylight .
it performs about equivalently to a system that 's in the order of 100,000 dollars . it costs 50 dollars . we can probably make it for 50 cents , if we put our mind to it .
why doesn 't somebody do it ? and the answer is , " how do you make a profit in a capitalist system , doing that ? "
interesting problem .
so , let me finish by saying that we 've thought about this as a kind of engineering problem .
and we 've asked : what is the scientific unifying idea here ?
and we 've decided that we should think about this not so much in terms of cost , but in terms of simplicity .
simplicity is a neat word . and you 've got to think about what simplicity means .
i know what it is but i don 't actually know what it means .
so , i actually was interested enough in this to put together several groups of people .
and the most recent involved a couple of people at mit , one of them being an exceptionally bright kid who is one of the very few people i would think of who 's an authentic genius .
we all struggled for an entire day to think about simplicity .
and i want to give you the answer of this deep scientific thought .
so , in a sense , you get what you pay for .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / rory _ stewart _ time _ to _ end _ the _ war _ in _ afghanistan.html
british mp rory stewart walked across afghanistan after 9 / 11 , talking with citizens and warlords alike . now , a decade later , he asks : why are western and coalition forces still fighting there ? he shares lessons from past military interventions that worked -- bosnia , for instance -- and shows that humility and local expertise are the keys to success .
foreign policy , global issues , military , peace , politics , war
1196
rory stewart : time to end the war in afghanistan
the question today is not : why did we invade afghanistan ?
the question is : why are we still in afghanistan one decade later ?
why are we spending $ 135 billion ?
why have we got 130,000 troops on the ground ?
why were more people killed last month than in any preceding month of this conflict ?
how has this happened ?
the last 20 years has been the age of intervention , and afghanistan is simply one act in a five-act tragedy .
we came out of the end of the cold war in despair .
we faced rwanda ; we faced bosnia , and then we rediscovered our confidence .
in the third act , we went into bosnia and kosovo and we seemed to succeed .
in the fourth act , with our hubris , our overconfidence developing , we invaded iraq and afghanistan ,
and in the fifth act , we plunged into a humiliating mess .
so the question is : what are we doing ?
why are we still stuck in afghanistan ?
and the answer , of course , that we keep being given is as follows : we 're told that we went into afghanistan because of 9 / 11 , and that we remain there because the taliban poses an existential threat to global security .
in the words of president obama , " if the taliban take over again , they will invite back al-qaeda , who will try to kill as many of our people as they possibly can . " the story that we 're told is that there was a " light footprint " initially -- in other words , that we ended up in a situation where we didn 't have enough troops , we didn 't have enough resources , that afghans were frustrated --
they felt there wasn 't enough progress and economic development and security , and therefore the taliban came back --
that we responded in 2005 and 2006 with troop deployments , but we still didn 't put enough troops on the ground .
and that it wasn 't until 2009 , when president obama signed off on a surge , that we finally had , in the words of secretary clinton , " the strategy , the leadership and the resources . "
so , as the president now reassures us , we are on track to achieve our goals .
all of this is wrong .
every one of those statements is wrong .
afghanistan does not pose an existential threat to global security .
it is extremely unlikely the taliban would ever be able to take over the country -- they simply don 't have a conventional military option .
and even if they were able to do so , even if i 'm wrong , it 's extremely unlikely the taliban would invite back al-qaeda .
from the taliban 's point of view , that was their number one mistake last time .
if they hadn 't invited back al-qaeda , they would still be in power today .
and even if i 'm wrong about those two things , even if they were able to take back the country , even if they were to invite back al-qaeda , it 's extremely unlikely that al-qaeda would significantly enhance its ability to harm the united states or harm europe .
because this isn 't the 1990s anymore .
if the al-qaeda base was to be established near ghazni , we would hit them very hard , and it would be very , very difficult for the taliban to protect them .
furthermore , it 's simply not true that what went wrong in afghanistan is the light footprint .
in my experience , in fact , the light footprint was extremely helpful .
and these troops that we brought in -- it 's a great picture of david beckham there on the sub-machine gun -- made the situation worse , not better .
when i walked across afghanistan in the winter of 2001-2002 , what i saw was scenes like this .
a girl , if you 're lucky , in the corner of a dark room -- lucky to be able to look at the koran .
but in those early days when we 're told we didn 't have enough troops and enough resources , we made a lot of progress in afghanistan .
within a few months , there were two and a half million more girls in school .
in sangin where i was sick in 2002 , the nearest health clinic was within three days walk .
today , there are 14 health clinics in that area alone .
there was amazing improvements .
we went from almost no afghans having mobile telephones during the taliban to a situation where , almost overnight , three million afghans had mobile telephones .
and we had progress in the free media . we had progress in elections -- all of this with the so-called light footprint .
but when we began to bring more money , when we began to invest more resources , things got worse , not better . how ?
well first see , if you put 125 billion dollars a year into a country like afghanistan where the entire revenue of the afghan state is one billion dollars a year , you drown everything .
it 's not simply corruption and waste that you create ; you essentially replace the priorities of the afghan government , the elected afghan government , with the micromanaging tendencies of foreigners on short tours with their own priorities .
and the same is true for the troops .
when i walked across afghanistan , i stayed with people like this .
this is commandant haji malem mohsin khan of kamenj .
commandant haji malem mohsin khan of kamenj was a great host .
he was very generous , like many of the afghans i stayed with .
but he was also considerably more conservative , considerably more anti-foreign , considerably more islamist than we 'd like to acknowledge .
this man , for example , mullah mustafa , tried to shoot me .
and the reason i 'm looking a little bit perplexed in this photograph is i was somewhat frightened , and i was too afraid on this occasion to ask him , having run for an hour through the desert and taken refuge in this house , why he had turned up and wanted to have his photograph taken with me .
but 18 months later , i asked him why he had tried to shoot me .
and mullah mustafa -- he 's the man with the pen and paper -- explained that the man sitting immediately to the left as you look at the photograph , nadir shah had bet him that he couldn 't hit me .
now this is not to say afghanistan is a place full of people like mullah mustafa .
it 's not ; it 's a wonderful place full of incredible energy and intelligence .
but it is a place where the putting-in of the troops has increased the violence rather than decreased it .
2005 , anthony fitzherbert , an agricultural engineer , could travel through helmand , could stay in nad ali , sangin and ghoresh , which are now the names of villages where fighting is taking place .
today , he could never do that .
so the idea that we deployed the troops to respond to the taliban insurgency is mistaken .
rather than preceding the insurgency , the taliban followed the troop deployment ,
and as far as i 'm concerned , the troop deployment caused their return .
now is this a new idea ?
no , there have been any number of people saying this over the last seven years .
i ran a center at harvard from 2008 to 2010 ,
and there were people like michael semple there who speak afghan languages fluently , who 've traveled to almost every district in the country .
andrew wilder , for example , born on the pakistan-iranian border , served his whole life in pakistan and afghanistan .
paul fishstein who began working there in 1978 -- worked for save the children , ran the afghan research and evaluation unit .
these are people who were able to say consistently that the increase in development aid was making afghanistan less secure , not more secure -- that the counter-insurgency strategy was not working and would not work .
and yet , nobody listened to them .
instead , there was a litany of astonishing optimism .
beginning in 2004 , every general came in saying , " i 've inherited a dismal situation , but finally i have the right resources and the correct strategy , which will deliver , " in general barno 's word in 2004 , the " decisive year . "
well guess what ? it didn 't .
but it wasn 't sufficient to prevent general abuzaid saying that he had the strategy and the resources to deliver , in 2005 , the " decisive year . "
or general david richards to come in 2006 and say he had the strategy and the resources to deliver the " crunch year . "
or in 2007 , the norwegian deputy foreign minister , espen eide , to say that that would deliver the " decisive year . "
or in 2008 , major general champoux to come in and say he would deliver the " decisive year . "
or in 2009 , my great friend , general stanley mcchrystal , who said that he was " knee-deep in the decisive year . "
or in 2010 , the u.k. foreign secretary , david miliband , who said that at last we would deliver the " decisive year . "
and you 'll be delighted to hear in 2011 , today , that guido westerwelle , the german foreign minister , assures us that we are in the " decisive year . "
how do we allow any of this to happen ?
well the answer , of course , is , if you spend 125 billion or 130 billion dollars a year in a country , you co-opt almost everybody . even the aid agencies , who begin to receive an enormous amount of money from the u.s. and the european governments to build schools and clinics , are somewhat disinclined to challenge the idea that afghanistan is an existential threat to global security .
they 're worried , in other words , that if anybody believes that it wasn 't such a threat -- oxfam , save the children wouldn 't get the money to build their hospitals and schools .
it 's also very difficult to confront a general with medals on his chest .
it 's very difficult for a politician , because you 're afraid that many lives have been lost in vain .
you feel deep , deep guilt .
you exaggerate your fears ,
and you 're terrified about the humiliation of defeat .
what is the solution to this ?
well the solution to this is we need to find a way that people like michael semple , or those other people , who are telling the truth , who know the country , who 've spent 30 years on the ground -- and most importantly of all , the missing component of this -- afghans themselves , who understand what is going on .
we need to somehow get their message to the policymakers .
and this is very difficult to do because of our structures .
the first thing we need to change is the structures of our government .
very , very sadly , our foreign services , the united nations , the military in these countries have very little idea of what 's going on .
the average british soldier is on a tour of only six months ; italian soldiers , on tours of four months ; the american military , on tours of 12 months .
diplomats are locked in embassy compounds .
when they go out , they travel in these curious armored vehicles
with these somewhat threatening security teams who ready 24 hours in advance who say you can only stay on the ground for an hour .
in the british embassy in afghanistan in 2008 , an embassy of 350 people , there were only three people who could speak dari , the main language of afghanistan , at a decent level .
and there was not a single pashto speaker .
in the afghan section in london responsible for governing afghan policy on the ground , i was told last year that there was not a single staff member of the foreign office in that section who had ever served on a posting in afghanistan .
so we need to change that institutional culture .
and i could make the same points about the united states and the united nations .
secondly , we need to aim off of the optimism of the generals . we need to make sure that we 're a little bit suspicious , that we understand that optimism is in the dna of the military ,
that we don 't respond to it with quite as much alacrity .
and thirdly , we need to have some humility .
we need to begin from the position that our knowledge , our power , our legitimacy is limited .
this doesn 't mean that intervention around the world is a disaster .
it isn 't .
bosnia and kosovo were signal successes , great successes .
today when you go to bosnia it is almost impossible to believe that what we saw in the early 1990s happened .
it 's almost impossible to believe the progress we 've made since 1994 .
refugee return , which the united nations high commission for refugees thought would be extremely unlikely , has largely happened .
a million properties have been returned .
borders between the bosniak territory and the bosnian-serb territory have calmed down .
the national army has shrunk .
the crime rates in bosnia today are lower than they are in sweden .
this has been done by an incredible , principled effort by the international community , and , of course , above all , by bosnians themselves .
but you need to look at context .
and this is what we 've lost in afghanistan and iraq .
you need to understand that in those places what really mattered was , firstly , the role of tudman and milosevic in coming to the agreement , and then the fact those men went , that the regional situation improved , that the european union could offer bosnia something extraordinary : the chance to be part of a new thing , a new club , a chance to join something bigger .
and finally , we need to understand that in bosnia and kosovo , a lot of the secret of what we did , a lot of the secret of our success , was our humility -- was the tentative nature of our engagement .
we criticized people a lot in bosnia for being quite slow to take on war criminals .
we criticized them for being quite slow to return refugees .
but that slowness , that caution , the fact that president clinton initially said that american troops would only be deployed for a year , turned out to be a strength , and it helped us to put our priorities right .
one of the saddest things about our involvement in afghanistan is that we 've got our priorities out of sync .
we 're not matching our resources to our priorities .
because if what we 're interested in is terrorism , pakistan is far more important than afghanistan .
if what we 're interested in is regional stability , egypt is far more important .
if what we 're worried about is poverty and development , sub-saharan africa is far more important .
this doesn 't mean that afghanistan doesn 't matter , but that it 's one of 40 countries in the world with which we need to engage .
so if i can finish with a metaphor for intervention , what we need to think of is something like mountain rescue .
why mountain rescue ?
because when people talk about intervention , they imagine that some scientific theory -- the rand corporation goes around counting 43 previous insurgencies producing mathematical formula saying you need one trained counter-insurgent for every 20 members of the population .
this is the wrong way of looking at it .
you need to look at it in the way that you look at mountain rescue .
when you 're doing mountain rescue , you don 't take a doctorate in mountain rescue , you look for somebody who knows the terrain .
it 's about context .
you understand that you can prepare , but the amount of preparation you can do is limited --
you can take some water , you can have a map , you can have a pack .
but what really matters is two kinds of problems -- problems that occur on the mountain which you couldn 't anticipate , such as , for example , ice on a slope , but which you can get around , and problems which you couldn 't anticipate and which you can 't get around , like a sudden blizzard or an avalanche or a change in the weather .
and the key to this is a guide who has been on that mountain , in every temperature , at every period --
a guide who , above all , knows when to turn back , who doesn 't press on relentlessly when conditions turn against them .
what we look for in firemen , in climbers , in policemen , and what we should look for in intervention , is intelligent risk takers -- not people who plunge blind off a cliff , not people who jump into a burning room , but who weigh their risks , weigh their responsibilities .
because the worst thing we have done in afghanistan is this idea that failure is not an option .
it makes failure invisible , inconceivable and inevitable .
and if we can resist this crazy slogan , we shall discover -- in egypt , in syria , in libya , and anywhere else we go in the world -- that if we can often do much less than we pretend , we can do much more than we fear .
thank you . thank you very much .
thank you . thank you very much .
thank you . thank you . thank you .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you .
bruno giussani : rory , you mentioned libya at the end .
just briefly , what 's your take on the current events there and the intervention ?
rory stewart : okay , i think libya poses the classic problem .
the problem in libya is that we are always pushing for the black or white .
we imagine there are only two choices : either full engagement and troop deployment or total isolation .
and we are always being tempted up to our neck .
we put our toes in and we go up to our neck .
what we should have done in libya is we should have stuck to the u.n. resolution .
we should have limited ourselves very , very strictly to the protection of the civilian population in benghazi .
we could have done that .
we set up a no-fly zone within 48 hours because gaddafi had no planes within 48 hours .
instead of which , we 've allowed ourselves to be tempted towards regime change .
in doing so , we 've destroyed our credibility with the security council , which means it 's very difficult to get a resolution on syria , and we 're setting ourselves up again for failure .
once more , humility , limits , honesty , realistic expectations and we could have achieved something to be proud of .
bg : rory , thank you very much .
rs : thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / nate _ silver _ on _ race _ and _ politics.html
nate silver has answers to controversial questions about race in politics : did obama 's race hurt his votes in some places ? stats and myths collide in this fascinating talk that ends with a remarkable insight on how town planning can promote tolerance .
cities , politics , race , statistics , urban planning
521
nate silver : does race affect votes ?
i want to talk about the election .
for the first time in the united states , a predominantly white group of voters voted for an african-american candidate for president .
and in fact barack obama did quite well .
he won 375 electoral votes .
and he won about 70 million popular votes more than any other presidential candidate -- of any race , of any party -- in history .
if you compare how obama did against how john kerry had done four years earlier -- democrats really like seeing this transition here , where almost every state becomes bluer , becomes more democratic -- even states obama lost , like out west ,
those states became more blue .
in the south , in the northeast , almost everywhere but with a couple of exceptions here and there .
one exception is in massachusetts .
that was john kerry 's home state .
no big surprise , obama couldn 't do better than kerry there .
or in arizona , which is john mccain 's home ,
obama didn 't have much improvement .
but there is also this part of the country , kind of in the middle region here .
this kind of arkansas , tennessee , oklahoma , west virginia region .
now if you look at ' 96 , bill clinton -- the last democrat to actually win -- how he did in ' 96 , you see real big differences in this part of the country right here , the kind of appalachians , ozarks , highlands region , as i call it :
20 or 30 point swings from how bill clinton did in ' 96 to how obama did in 2008 .
yes bill clinton was from arkansas , but these are very , very profound differences .
so , when we think about parts of the country like arkansas , you know .
there is a book written called , " what 's the matter with kansas ? "
but really the question here -- obama did relatively well in kansas .
he lost badly but every democrat does .
he lost no worse than most people do .
but yeah , what 's the matter with arkansas ?
and when we think of arkansas we tend to have pretty negative connotations .
we think of a bunch of rednecks , quote , unquote , with guns .
and we think people like this probably don 't want to vote for people who look like this and are named barack obama .
we think it 's a matter of race . and is this fair ?
are we kind of stigmatizing people from arkansas , and this part of the country ?
and the answer is : it is at least partially fair .
we know that race was a factor , and the reason why we know that is because we asked those people .
actually we didn 't ask them , but when they conducted exit polls in every state , in 37 states , out of the 50 , they asked a question , that was pretty direct , about race .
they asked this question .
in deciding your vote for president today , was the race of the candidate a factor ?
we 're looking for people that said , " yes , race was a factor ; moreover it was an important factor , in my decision , "
and people who voted for john mccain as a result of that factor , maybe in combination with other factors , and maybe alone .
we 're looking for this behavior among white voters or , really , non-black voters .
so you see big differences in different parts of the country on this question .
in louisiana , about one in five white voters said , " yes , one of the big reasons why i voted against barack obama is because he was an african-american . "
if those people had voted for obama , even half of them , obama would have won louisiana safely .
same is true with , i think , all of these states you see on the top of the list .
meanwhile , california , new york , we can say , " oh we 're enlightened " but you know , certainly a much lower incidence of this admitted , i suppose , manifestation of racially-based voting .
here is the same data on a map .
you kind of see the relationship between the redder states of where more people responded and said , " yes , barack obama 's race was a problem for me . "
you see , comparing the map to ' 96 , you see an overlap here .
this really seems to explain why barack obama did worse in this one part of the country .
so we have to ask why .
is racism predictable in some way ?
is there something driving this ?
is it just about some weird stuff that goes on in arkansas that we don 't understand , and kentucky ?
or are there more systematic factors at work ?
and so we can look at a bunch of different variables .
these are things that economists and political scientists look at all the time -- things like income , and religion , education .
which of these seem to drive this manifestation of racism in this big national experiment we had on november 4th ?
and there are a couple of these that have strong predictive relationships , one of which is education ,
where you see the states with the fewest years of schooling per adult are in red , and you see this part of the country , the kind of appalachians region , is less educated . it 's just a fact .
and you see the relationship there with the racially-based voting patterns .
the other variable that 's important is the type of neighborhood that you live in .
states that are more rural -- even to some extent of the states like new hampshire and maine -- they exhibit a little bit of this racially-based voting against barack obama .
so it 's the combination of these two things : it 's education and the type of neighbors that you have , which we 'll talk about more in a moment .
and the thing about states like arkansas and tennessee is that they 're both very rural , and they are educationally impoverished .
so yes , racism is predictable .
these things , among maybe other variables , but these things seem to predict it .
we 're going to drill down a little bit more now , into something called the general social survey .
this is conducted by the university of chicago every other year .
and they ask a series of really interesting questions .
in 2000 they had particularly interesting questions about racial attitudes .
one simple question they asked is , " does anyone of the opposite race live in your neighborhood ? "
we can see in different types of communities that the results are quite different .
in cites , about 80 percent of people have someone whom they consider a neighbor of another race ,
but in rural communities , only about 30 percent .
probably because if you live on a farm , you might not have a lot of neighbors , period .
but nevertheless , you 're not having a lot of interaction with people who are unlike you .
so what we 're going to do now is take the white people in the survey and split them between those who have black neighbors -- or , really , some neighbor of another race -- and people who have only white neighbors .
and we see in some variables in terms of political attitudes , not a lot of difference .
this was eight years ago , some people were more republican back then .
but you see democrats versus republican , not a big difference based on who your neighbors are .
and even some questions about race -- for example affirmative action , which is kind of a political question , a policy question about race , if you will --
not much difference here .
affirmative action is not very popular frankly , with white voters , period .
but people with black neighbors and people with mono-racial neighborhoods feel no differently about it really .
but if you probe a bit deeper and get a bit more personal if you will , " do you favor a law banning interracial marriage ? "
there is a big difference .
people who don 't have neighbors of a different race are about twice as likely to oppose interracial marriage as people who do .
just based on who lives in your immediate neighborhood around you .
and likewise they asked , not in 2000 , but in the same survey in 1996 , " would you not vote for a qualified black president ? "
you see people without neighbors who are african-american who were much more likely to say , " that would give me a problem . "
so it 's really not even about urban versus rural .
it 's about who you live with .
racism is predictable . and it 's predicted by interaction or lack thereof with people unlike you , people of other races .
so if you want to address it , the goal is to facilitate interaction with people of other races .
i have a couple of very obvious , i suppose , ideas for maybe how to do that .
i 'm a big fan of cities .
especially if we have cites that are diverse and sustainable , and can support people of different ethnicities and different income groups .
i think cities facilitate more of the kind of networking , the kind of casual interaction than you might have on a daily basis .
but also not everyone wants to live in a city , certainly not a city like new york .
so we can think more about things like street grids .
this is the neighborhood where i grew up in east lansing , michigan .
it 's a traditional midwestern community , which means you have real grid .
you have real neighborhoods and real trees , and real streets you can walk on .
and you interact a lot with your neighbors -- people you like , people you might not know .
and as a result it 's a very tolerant community , which is different , i think , than something like this , which is in schaumburg , illinois ,
where every little set of houses has their own cul-de-sac and drive-through starbucks and stuff like that .
i think that actually this type of urban design , which became more prevalent in the 1970s and 1980s -- i think there is a relationship between that and the country becoming more conservative under ronald reagan .
but also here is another idea we have -- is an intercollegiate exchange program where you have students going from new york abroad .
but frankly there are enough differences within the country now where maybe you can take a bunch of kids from nyu , have them go study for a semester at the university of arkansas , and vice versa . do it at the high school level .
literally there are people who might be in school in arkansas or tennessee and might never interact in a positive affirmative way with someone from another part of the country , or of another racial group .
i think part of the education variable we talked about before is the networking experience you get when you go to college where you do get a mix of people that you might not interact with otherwise .
but the point is , this is all good news ,
because when something is predictable , it is what i call designable .
you can start thinking about solutions to solving that problem ,
even if the problem is pernicious and as intractable as racism .
if we understand the root causes of the behavior and where it manifests itself and where it doesn 't , we can start to design solutions to it .
so that 's all i have to say . thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / bryan _ stevenson _ we _ need _ to _ talk _ about _ an _ injustice.html
in an engaging and personal talk -- with cameo appearances from his grandmother and rosa parks -- human rights lawyer bryan stevenson shares some hard truths about america 's justice system , starting with a massive imbalance along racial lines : a third of the country 's black male population has been incarcerated at some point in their lives . these issues , which are wrapped up in america 's unexamined history , are rarely talked about with this level of candor , insight and persuasiveness .
crime , culture , global issues , law
1378
bryan stevenson : we need to talk about an injustice
well this is a really extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time in jails , in prisons , on death row .
i spend most of my time in very low-income communities in the projects and places where there 's a great deal of hopelessness .
and being here at ted and seeing the stimulation , hearing it , has been very , very energizing to me .
and one of the things that 's emerged in my short time here is that ted has an identity .
and you can actually say things here that have impacts around the world .
and sometimes when it comes through ted , it has meaning and power that it doesn 't have when it doesn 't .
and i mention that because i think identity is really important .
and we 've had some fantastic presentations .
and i think what we 've learned is that , if you 're a teacher your words can be meaningful , but if you 're a compassionate teacher , they can be especially meaningful .
if you 're a doctor you can do some good things , but if you 're a caring doctor you can do some other things .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
and i didn 't learn about this actually practicing law and doing the work that i do .
i actually learned about this from my grandmother .
i grew up in a house that was the traditional african american home that was dominated by a matriarch , and that matriarch was my grandmother .
she was tough , she was strong , she was powerful .
she was the end of every argument in our family .
she was the beginning of a lot of arguments in our family .
she was the daughter of people who were actually enslaved .
her parents were born in slavery in virginia in the 1840 's .
she was born in the 1880 's and the experience of slavery very much shaped the way she saw the world .
and my grandmother was tough , but she was also loving .
when i would see her as a little boy , she 'd come up to me and she 'd give me these hugs .
and she 'd squeeze me so tight i could barely breathe and then she 'd let me go .
and an hour or two later , if i saw her , she 'd come over to me and she 'd say , " bryan , do you still feel me hugging you ? " and if i said , " no , " she 'd assault me again , and if i said , " yes , " she 'd leave me alone .
and she just had this quality that you always wanted to be near her .
and the only challenge was that she had 10 children .
my mom was the youngest of her 10 kids .
and sometimes when i would go and spend time with her , it would be difficult to get her time and attention .
my cousins would be running around everywhere .
and i remember , when i was about eight or nine years old , waking up one morning , going into the living room , and all of my cousins were running around .
and my grandmother was sitting across the room staring at me .
and at first i thought we were playing a game .
and i would look at her and i 'd smile , but she was very serious .
and after about 15 or 20 minutes of this , she got up and she came across the room and she took me by the hand and she said , " come on , bryan . you and i are going to have a talk . " and i remember this just like it happened yesterday .
i never will forget it .
she took me out back and she said , " bryan , i 'm going to tell you something , but you don 't tell anybody what i tell you . " i said , " okay , mama . " she said , " now you make sure you don 't do that . " i said , " sure . "
then she sat me down and she looked at me and she said , " i want you to know i 've been watching you . "
and she said , " i think you 're special . "
she said , " i think you can do anything you want to do . " i will never forget it .
and then she said , " i just need you to promise me three things , bryan . " i said , " okay , mama . " she said , " the first thing i want you to promise me is that you 'll always love your mom . " she said , " that 's my baby girl , and you have to promise me now you 'll always take care of her . " well i adored my mom , so i said , " yes , mama . i 'll do that . " then she said , " the second thing i want you to promise me is that you 'll always do the right thing even when the right thing is the hard thing . " and i thought about it and i said , " yes , mama . i 'll do that . " then finally she said , " the third thing i want you to promise me is that you 'll never drink alcohol . " well i was nine years old , so i said , " yes , mama . i 'll do that . " i grew up in the country in the rural south , and i have a brother a year older than me and a sister a year younger .
when i was about 14 or 15 , one day my brother came home and he had this six-pack of beer -- i don 't know where he got it -- and he grabbed me and my sister and we went out in the woods .
and we were kind of just out there doing the stuff we crazily did .
and he had a sip of this beer and he gave some to my sister and she had some , and they offered it to me .
i said , " no , no , no . that 's okay . you all go ahead . i 'm not going to have any beer . " my brother said , " come on . we 're doing this today ; you always do what we do .
i had some , your sister had some . have some beer . " i said , " no , i don 't feel right about that . y 'all go ahead . y 'all go ahead . " and then my brother started staring at me .
he said , " what 's wrong with you ? have some beer . " then he looked at me real hard and he said , " oh , i hope you 're not still hung up on that conversation mama had with you . " i said , " well , what are you talking about ? " he said , " oh , mama tells all the grandkids that they 're special . " i was devastated .
and i 'm going to admit something to you .
i 'm going to tell you something i probably shouldn 't .
i know this might be broadcast broadly .
but i 'm 52 years old , and i 'm going to admit to you that i 've never had a drop of alcohol .
i don 't say that because i think that 's virtuous ; i say that because there is power in identity .
when we create the right kind of identity , we can say things to the world around us that they don 't actually believe makes sense .
we can get them to do things that they don 't think they can do .
when i thought about my grandmother , of course she would think all her grandkids were special .
my grandfather was in prison during prohibition .
my male uncles died of alcohol-related diseases .
and these were the things she thought we needed to commit to .
well i 've been trying to say something about our criminal justice system .
this country is very different today than it was 40 years ago .
in 1972 , there were 300,000 people in jails and prisons .
today , there are 2.3 million .
the united states now has the highest rate of incarceration in the world .
we have seven million people on probation and parole .
and mass incarceration , in my judgment , has fundamentally changed our world .
in poor communities , in communities of color there is this despair , there is this hopelessness , that is being shaped by these outcomes .
one out of three black men between the ages of 18 and 30 is in jail , in prison , on probation or parole .
in urban communities across this country -- los angeles , philadelphia , baltimore , washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all young men of color are in jail or prison or on probation or parole .
our system isn 't just being shaped in these ways that seem to be distorting around race , they 're also distorted by poverty .
we have a system of justice in this country that treats you much better if you 're rich and guilty than if you 're poor and innocent .
wealth , not culpability , shapes outcomes .
and yet , we seem to be very comfortable .
the politics of fear and anger have made us believe that these are problems that are not our problems .
we 've been disconnected .
it 's interesting to me .
we 're looking at some very interesting developments in our work .
my state of alabama , like a number of states , actually permanently disenfranchises you if you have a criminal conviction .
right now in alabama 34 percent of the black male population has permanently lost the right to vote .
we 're actually projecting in another 10 years the level of disenfranchisement will be as high as it 's been since prior to the passage of the voting rights act .
and there is this stunning silence .
i represent children .
a lot of my clients are very young .
the united states is the only country in the world where we sentence 13-year-old children to die in prison .
we have life imprisonment without parole for kids in this country .
and we 're actually doing some litigation .
the only country in the world .
i represent people on death row .
it 's interesting , this question of the death penalty .
in many ways , we 've been taught to think that the real question is , do people deserve to die for the crimes they 've committed ?
and that 's a very sensible question .
but there 's another way of thinking about where we are in our identity .
the other way of thinking about it is not , do people deserve to die for the crimes they commit ,
but do we deserve to kill ?
i mean , it 's fascinating .
death penalty in america is defined by error .
for every nine people who have been executed , we 've actually identified one innocent person who 's been exonerated and released from death row .
a kind of astonishing error rate -- one out of nine people innocent .
i mean , it 's fascinating .
in aviation , we would never let people fly on airplanes if for every nine planes that took off one would crash .
but somehow we can insulate ourselves from this problem .
it 's not our problem .
it 's not our burden .
it 's not our struggle .
i talk a lot about these issues .
i talk about race and this question of whether we deserve to kill .
and it 's interesting , when i teach my students about african american history , i tell them about slavery .
i tell them about terrorism , the era that began at the end of reconstruction that went on to world war ii .
we don 't really know very much about it .
but for african americans in this country , that was an era defined by terror .
in many communities , people had to worry about being lynched .
they had to worry about being bombed .
it was the threat of terror that shaped their lives .
and these older people come up to me now and they say , " mr. stevenson , you give talks , you make speeches , you tell people to stop saying we 're dealing with terrorism for the first time in our nation 's history after 9 / 11 . "
they tell me to say , " no , tell them that we grew up with that . "
and that era of terrorism , of course , was followed by segregation and decades of racial subordination and apartheid .
and yet , we have in this country this dynamic where we really don 't like to talk about our problems .
we don 't like to talk about our history .
and because of that , we really haven 't understood what it 's meant to do the things we 've done historically .
we 're constantly running into each other .
we 're constantly creating tensions and conflicts .
we have a hard time talking about race , and i believe it 's because we are unwilling to commit ourselves to a process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people understood that we couldn 't overcome apartheid without a commitment to truth and reconciliation .
in rwanda , even after the genocide , there was this commitment , but in this country we haven 't done that .
i was giving some lectures in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating because one of the scholars stood up after the presentation and said , " well you know it 's deeply troubling to hear what you 're talking about . "
he said , " we don 't have the death penalty in germany .
and of course , we can never have the death penalty in germany . " and the room got very quiet , and this woman said , " there 's no way , with our history , we could ever engage in the systematic killing of human beings .
it would be unconscionable for us to , in an intentional and deliberate way , set about executing people . " and i thought about that .
what would it feel like to be living in a world where the nation state of germany was executing people , especially if they were disproportionately jewish ?
i couldn 't bear it .
it would be unconscionable .
and yet , in this country , in the states of the old south , we execute people -- where you 're 11 times more likely to get the death penalty if the victim is white than if the victim is black , 22 times more likely to get it if the defendant is black and the victim is white -- in the very states where there are buried in the ground the bodies of people who were lynched .
and yet , there is this disconnect .
well i believe that our identity is at risk . that when we actually don 't care about these difficult things , the positive and wonderful things are nonetheless implicated .
we love innovation .
we love technology . we love creativity .
we love entertainment .
but ultimately , those realities are shadowed by suffering , abuse , degradation , marginalization .
and for me , it becomes necessary to integrate the two .
because ultimately we are talking about a need to be more hopeful , more committed , more dedicated to the basic challenges of living in a complex world .
and for me that means spending time thinking and talking about the poor , the disadvantaged , those who will never get to ted .
but thinking about them in a way that is integrated in our own lives .
you know ultimately , we all have to believe things we haven 't seen .
we do . as rational as we are , as committed to intellect as we are .
innovation , creativity , development comes not from the ideas in our mind alone .
they come from the ideas in our mind that are also fueled by some conviction in our heart .
and it 's that mind-heart connection that i believe compels us to not just be attentive to all the bright and dazzly things , but also the dark and difficult things .
vaclav havel , the great czech leader , talked about this .
he said , " when we were in eastern europe and dealing with oppression , we wanted all kinds of things , but mostly what we needed was hope , an orientation of the spirit , a willingness to sometimes be in hopeless places and be a witness . " well that orientation of the spirit is very much at the core of what i believe even ted communities have to be engaged in .
there is no disconnect around technology and design that will allow us to be fully human until we pay attention to suffering , to poverty , to exclusion , to unfairness , to injustice .
now i will warn you that this kind of identity is a much more challenging identity than ones that don 't pay attention to this .
it will get to you .
i had the great privilege , when i was a young lawyer , of meeting rosa parks .
and ms. parks used to come back to montgomery every now and then , and she would get together with two of her dearest friends , these older women , johnnie carr who was the organizer of the montgomery bus boycott -- amazing african american woman -- and virginia durr , a white woman , whose husband , clifford durr , represented dr. king .
and these women would get together and just talk .
and every now and then ms. carr would call me , and she 'd say , " bryan , ms. parks is coming to town . we 're going to get together and talk .
do you want to come over and listen ? " and i 'd say , " yes , ma 'am , i do . " and she 'd say , " well what are you going to do when you get here ? " i said , " i 'm going to listen . "
and i 'd go over there and i would , i would just listen .
it would be so energizing and so empowering .
and one time i was over there listening to these women talk , and after a couple of hours ms. parks turned to me and she said , " now bryan , tell me what the equal justice initiative is .
tell me what you 're trying to do . " and i began giving her my rap .
i said , " well we 're trying to challenge injustice .
we 're trying to help people who have been wrongly convicted .
we 're trying to confront bias and discrimination in the administration of criminal justice .
we 're trying to end life without parole sentences for children .
we 're trying to do something about the death penalty .
we 're trying to reduce the prison population .
we 're trying to end mass incarceration . " i gave her my whole rap , and when i finished she looked at me and she said , " mmm mmm mmm . "
she said , " that 's going to make you tired , tired , tired . " and that 's when ms. carr leaned forward , she put her finger in my face , she said , " that 's why you 've got to be brave , brave , brave . " and i actually believe that the ted community needs to be more courageous .
we need to find ways to embrace these challenges , these problems , the suffering . because ultimately , our humanity depends on everyone 's humanity .
i 've learned very simple things doing the work that i do .
it 's just taught me very simple things .
i 've come to understand and to believe that each of us is more than the worst thing we 've ever done .
i believe that for every person on the planet .
i think if somebody tells a lie , they 're not just a liar .
i think if somebody takes something that doesn 't belong to them , they 're not just a thief .
i think even if you kill someone , you 're not just a killer .
and because of that there 's this basic human dignity that must be respected by law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of this globe , that the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don 't believe that .
i actually think , in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i believe that , despite the fact that it is so dramatic and so beautiful and so inspiring and so stimulating , we will ultimately not be judged by our technology , we won 't be judged by our design , we won 't be judged by our intellect and reason .
ultimately , you judge the character of a society , not by how they treat their rich and the powerful and the privileged , but by how they treat the poor , the condemned , the incarcerated .
because it 's in that nexus that we actually begin to understand truly profound things about who we are .
i sometimes get out of balance . i 'll end with this story .
i sometimes push too hard .
i do get tired , as we all do .
sometimes those ideas get ahead of our thinking in ways that are important .
and i 've been representing these kids who have been sentenced to do these very harsh sentences .
and i go to the jail and i see my client who 's 13 and 14 , and he 's been certified to stand trial as an adult .
i start thinking , well , how did that happen ?
how can a judge turn you into something that you 're not ?
and the judge has certified him as an adult , but i see this kid .
and i was up too late one night and i starting thinking , well gosh , if the judge can turn you into something that you 're not , the judge must have magic power .
yeah , bryan , the judge has some magic power .
you should ask for some of that .
and because i was up too late , wasn 't thinking real straight , i started working on a motion .
and i had a client who was 14 years old , a young , poor black kid .
and i started working on this motion , and the head of the motion was : " motion to try my poor , 14-year-old black male client like a privileged , white 75-year-old corporate executive . " and i put in my motion that there was prosecutorial misconduct and police misconduct and judicial misconduct .
there was a crazy line in there about how there 's no conduct in this county , it 's all misconduct .
and the next morning , i woke up and i thought , now did i dream that crazy motion , or did i actually write it ?
and to my horror , not only had i written it , but i had sent it to court .
a couple months went by , and i had just forgotten all about it .
and i finally decided , oh gosh , i 've got to go to the court and do this crazy case .
and i got into my car and i was feeling really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
and i got in my car and i went to this courthouse .
and i was thinking , this is going to be so difficult , so painful .
and i finally got out of the car and i started walking up to the courthouse .
and as i was walking up the steps of this courthouse , there was an older black man who was the janitor in this courthouse .
when this man saw me , he came over to me and he said , " who are you ? " i said , " i 'm a lawyer . " he said , " you 're a lawyer ? " i said , " yes , sir . "
and this man came over to me and he hugged me .
and he whispered in my ear .
he said , " i 'm so proud of you . " and i have to tell you , it was energizing .
it connected deeply with something in me about identity , about the capacity of every person to contribute to a community , to a perspective that is hopeful .
well i went into the courtroom .
and as soon as i walked inside , the judge saw me coming in .
he said , " mr. stevenson , did you write this crazy motion ? " i said , " yes , sir . i did . " and we started arguing .
and people started coming in because they were just outraged .
i had written these crazy things .
and police officers were coming in and assistant prosecuters and clerk workers .
and before i knew it , the courtroom was filled with people angry that we were talking about race , that we were talking about poverty , that we were talking about inequality .
and out of the corner of my eye , i could see this janitor pacing back and forth .
and he kept looking through the window , and he could hear all of this holler .
he kept pacing back and forth .
and finally , this older black man with this very worried look on his face came into the courtroom and sat down behind me , almost at counsel table .
about 10 minutes later the judge said we would take a break .
and during the break there was a deputy sheriff who was offended that the janitor had come into court .
and this deputy jumped up and he ran over to this older black man .
he said , " jimmy , what are you doing in this courtroom ? " and this older black man stood up and he looked at that deputy and he looked at me and he said , " i came into this courtroom to tell this young man , keep your eyes on the prize , hold on . " i 've come to ted because i believe that many of you understand that the moral arc of the universe is long , but it bends toward justice .
that we cannot be full evolved human beings until we care about human rights and basic dignity .
that all of our survival is tied to the survival of everyone .
that our visions of technology and design and entertainment and creativity have to be married with visions of humanity , compassion and justice .
and more than anything , for those of you who share that , i 've simply come to tell you to keep your eyes on the prize , hold on .
thank you very much .
chris anderson : so you heard and saw an obvious desire by this audience , this community , to help you on your way and to do something on this issue .
other than writing a check , what could we do ?
bs : well there are opportunities all around us .
if you live in the state of california , for example , there 's a referendum coming up this spring where actually there 's going to be an effort to redirect some of the money we spend on the politics of punishment .
for example , here in california we 're going to spend one billion dollars on the death penalty in the next five years -- one billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all homicide cases don 't result in arrest .
56 percent of all rape cases don 't result .
so there 's an opportunity to change that .
and this referendum would propose having those dollars go to law enforcement and safety .
and i think that opportunity exists all around us .
ca : there 's been this huge decline in crime in america over the last three decades .
and part of the narrative of that is sometimes that it 's about increased incarceration rates .
what would you say to someone who believed that ?
bs : well actually the violent crime rate has remained relatively stable .
the great increase in mass incarceration in this country wasn 't really in violent crime categories .
it was this misguided war on drugs .
that 's where the dramatic increases have come in our prison population .
and we got carried away with the rhetoric of punishment .
and so we have three strikes laws that put people in prison forever for stealing a bicycle , for low-level property crimes , rather than making them give those resources back to the people who they victimized .
i believe we need to do more to help people who are victimized by crime , not do less .
and i think our current punishment philosophy does nothing for no one .
and i think that 's the orientation that we have to change .
ca : bryan , you 've struck a massive chord here .
you 're an inspiring person .
thank you so much for coming to ted . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / abraham _ verghese _ a _ doctor _ s _ touch.html
modern medicine is in danger of losing a powerful , old-fashioned tool : human touch . physician and writer abraham verghese describes our strange new world where patients are merely data points , and calls for a return to the traditional one-on-one physical exam .
communication , culture , health , health care , medicine , science
1231
abraham verghese : a doctor 's touch
a few months ago , a 40 year-old woman came to an emergency room in a hospital close to where i live , and she was brought in confused .
her blood pressure was an alarming 230 over 170 .
within a few minutes , she went into cardiac collapse .
she was resuscitated , stabilized , whisked over to a cat scan suite right next to the emergency room , because they were concerned about blood clots in the lung .
and the cat scan revealed no blood clots in the lung , but it showed bilateral , visible , palpable breast masses , breast tumors , that had metastasized widely all over the body .
and the real tragedy was , if you look through her records , she had been seen in four or five other health care institutions in the preceding two years .
four or five opportunities to see the breast masses , touch the breast mass , intervene at a much earlier stage than when we saw her .
ladies and gentlemen , that is not an unusual story .
unfortunately , it happens all the time .
i joke , but i only half joke , that if you come to one of our hospitals missing a limb , no one will believe you till they get a cat scan , mri or orthopedic consult .
i am not a luddite .
i teach at stanford .
i 'm a physician practicing with cutting-edge technology .
but i 'd like to make the case to you in the next 17 minutes that when we shortcut the physical exam , when we lean towards ordering tests instead of talking to and examining the patient , we not only overlook simple diagnoses that can be diagnosed at a treatable , early stage , but we 're losing much more than that .
we 're losing a ritual .
we 're losing a ritual that i believe is transformative , transcendent , and is at the heart of the patient-physician relationship .
this may actually be heresy to say this at ted , but i 'd like to introduce you to the most important innovation , i think , in medicine to come in the next 10 years , and that is the power of the human hand -- to touch , to comfort , to diagnose and to bring about treatment .
i 'd like to introduce you first to this person whose image you may or may not recognize .
this is sir arthur conan doyle .
since we 're in edinburgh , i 'm a big fan of conan doyle .
you might not know that conan doyle went to medical school here in edinburgh , and his character , sherlock holmes , was inspired by sir joseph bell .
joseph bell was an extraordinary teacher by all accounts .
and conan doyle , writing about bell , described the following exchange between bell and his students .
so picture bell sitting in the outpatient department , students all around him , patients signing up in the emergency room and being registered and being brought in .
and a woman comes in with a child , and conan doyle describes the following exchange .
the woman says , " good morning . "
bell says , " what sort of crossing did you have on the ferry from burntisland ? "
she says , " it was good . "
and he says , " what did you do with the other child ? "
she says , " i left him with my sister at leith . "
and he says , " and did you take the shortcut down inverleith row to get here to the infirmary ? "
she says , " i did . "
and he says , " would you still be working at the linoleum factory ? "
and she says , " i am . "
and bell then goes on to explain to the students .
he says , " you see , when she said , ' good morning , ' i picked up her fife accent .
and the nearest ferry crossing from fife is from burntisland .
and so she must have taken the ferry over .
you notice that the coat she 's carrying is too small for the child who is with her , and therefore , she started out the journey with two children , but dropped one off along the way .
you notice the clay on the soles of her feet .
such red clay is not found within a hundred miles of edinburgh , except in the botanical gardens .
and therefore , she took a short cut down inverleith row to arrive here .
and finally , she has a dermatitis on the fingers of her right hand , a dermatitis that is unique to the linoleum factory workers in burntisland . "
and when bell actually strips the patient , begins to examine the patient , you can only imagine how much more he would discern .
and as a teacher of medicine , as a student myself , i was so inspired by that story .
but you might not realize that our ability to look into the body in this simple way , using our senses , is quite recent .
the picture i 'm showing you is of leopold auenbrugger who , in the late 1700s , discovered percussion .
and the story is that leopold auenbrugger was the son of an innkeeper .
and his father used to go down into the basement to tap on the sides of casks of wine to determine how much wine was left and whether to reorder .
and so when auenbrugger became a physician , he began to do the same thing .
he began to tap on the chests of his patients , on their abdomens .
and basically everything we know about percussion , which you can think of as an ultrasound of its day -- organ enlargement , fluid around the heart , fluid in the lungs , abdominal changes -- all of this he described in this wonderful manuscript " inventum novum , " " new invention , " which would have disappeared into obscurity , except for the fact that this physician , corvisart , a famous french physician -- famous only because he was physician to this gentleman -- corvisart repopularized and reintroduced the work .
and it was followed a year or two later by laennec discovering the stethoscope .
laennec , it is said , was walking in the streets of paris and saw two children playing with a stick .
one was scratching at the end of the stick , another child listened at the other end .
and laennec thought this would be a wonderful way to listen to the chest or listen to the abdomen using what he called " the cylinder . "
later he renamed it the stethoscope .
and that is how stethoscope and auscultation was born .
so within a few years , in the late 1800s , early 1900s , all of a sudden , the barber surgeon had given way to the physician who was trying to make a diagnosis .
if you 'll recall , prior to that time , no matter what ailed you , you went to see the barber surgeon who wound up cupping you , bleeding you , purging you .
and , oh yes , if you wanted , he would give you a haircut -- short on the sides , long in the back -- and pull your tooth while he was at it .
he made no attempt at diagnosis .
in fact , some of you might well know that the barber pole , the red and white stripes , represents the blood bandages of the barber surgeon , and the receptacles on either end represent the pots in which the blood was collected .
but the arrival of auscultation and percussion represented a sea change , a moment when physicians were beginning to look inside the body .
and this particular painting , i think , represents the pinnacle , the peak , of that clinical era .
this is a very famous painting : " the doctor " by luke fildes .
luke fildes was commissioned to paint this by tate , who then established the tate gallery .
and tate asked fildes to paint a painting of social importance .
and it 's interesting that fildes picked this topic .
fildes ' oldest son , philip , died at the age of nine on christmas eve after a brief illness .
and fildes was so taken by the physician who held vigil at the bedside for two , three nights , that he decided that he would try and depict the physician in our time -- almost a tribute to this physician .
and hence the painting " the doctor , " a very famous painting .
it 's been on calendars , postage stamps in many different countries .
i 've often wondered , what would fildes have done had he been asked to paint this painting in the modern era , in the year 2011 ?
would he have substituted a computer screen for where he had the patient ?
i 've gotten into some trouble in silicon valley for saying that the patient in the bed has almost become an icon for the real patient who 's in the computer .
i 've actually coined a term for that entity in the computer .
i call it the ipatient .
the ipatient is getting wonderful care all across america .
the real patient often wonders , where is everyone ? when are they going to come by and explain things to me ? who 's in charge ?
there 's a real disjunction between the patient 's perception and our own perceptions as physicians of the best medical care .
i want to show you a picture of what rounds looked like when i was in training .
the focus was around the patient .
we went from bed to bed . the attending physician was in charge .
too often these days , rounds look very much like this , where the discussion is taking place in a room far away from the patient .
the discussion is all about images on the computer , data .
and the one critical piece missing is that of the patient .
now i 've been influenced in this thinking by two anecdotes that i want to share with you .
one had to do with a friend of mine who had a breast cancer , had a small breast cancer detected -- had her lumpectomy in the town in which i lived .
this is when i was in texas .
and she then spent a lot of time researching to find the best cancer center in the world to get her subsequent care .
and she found the place and decided to go there , went there .
which is why i was surprised a few months later to see her back in our own town , getting her subsequent care with her private oncologist .
and i pressed her , and i asked her , " why did you come back and get your care here ? "
and she was reluctant to tell me .
she said , " the cancer center was wonderful .
it had a beautiful facility , giant atrium , valet parking , a piano that played itself , a concierge that took you around from here to there .
but , " she said , " but they did not touch my breasts . "
now you and i could argue that they probably did not need to touch her breasts .
they had her scanned inside out .
they understood her breast cancer at the molecular level ; they had no need to touch her breasts .
but to her , it mattered deeply .
it was enough for her to make the decision to get her subsequent care with her private oncologist who , every time she went , examined both breasts including the axillary tail , examined her axilla carefully , examined her cervical region , her inguinal region , did a thorough exam .
and to her , that spoke of a kind of attentiveness that she needed .
i was very influenced by that anecdote .
i was also influenced by another experience that i had , again , when i was in texas , before i moved to stanford .
i had a reputation as being interested in patients with chronic fatigue .
this is not a reputation you would wish on your worst enemy .
i say that because these are difficult patients .
they have often been rejected by their families , have had bad experiences with medical care and they come to you fully prepared for you to join the long list of people who 's about to disappoint them .
and i learned very early on with my first patient that i could not do justice to this very complicated patient with all the records they were bringing in a new patient visit of 45 minutes .
there was just no way .
and if i tried , i 'd disappoint them .
and so i hit on this method where i invited the patient to tell me the story for their entire first visit , and i tried not to interrupt them .
we know the average american physician interrupts their patient in 14 seconds .
and if i ever get to heaven , it will be because i held my piece for 45 minutes and did not interrupt my patient .
i then scheduled the physical exam for two weeks hence , and when the patient came for the physical , i was able to do a thorough physical , because i had nothing else to do .
i like to think that i do a thorough physical exam , but because the whole visit was now about the physical , i could do an extraordinarily thorough exam .
and i remember my very first patient in that series continued to tell me more history during what was meant to be the physical exam visit .
and i began my ritual .
i always begin with the pulse , then i examine the hands , then i look at the nail beds , then i slide my hand up to the epitrochlear node , and i was into my ritual .
and when my ritual began , this very voluble patient began to quiet down .
and i remember having a very eerie sense that the patient and i had slipped back into a primitive ritual in which i had a role and the patient had a role .
and when i was done , the patient said to me with some awe , " i have never been examined like this before . "
now if that were true , it 's a true condemnation of our health care system , because they had been seen in other places .
i then proceeded to tell the patient , once the patient was dressed , the standard things that the person must have heard in other institutions , which is , " this is not in your head .
this is real .
the good news , it 's not cancer , it 's not tuberculosis , it 's not coccidioidomycosis or some obscure fungal infection .
the bad news is we don 't know exactly what 's causing this , but here 's what you should do , here 's what we should do . "
and i would lay out all the standard treatment options that the patient had heard elsewhere .
and i always felt that if my patient gave up the quest for the magic doctor , the magic treatment and began with me on a course towards wellness , it was because i had earned the right to tell them these things by virtue of the examination .
something of importance had transpired in the exchange .
i took this to my colleagues at stanford in anthropology and told them the same story .
and they immediately said to me , " well you are describing a classic ritual . "
and they helped me understand that rituals are all about transformation .
we marry , for example , with great pomp and ceremony and expense to signal our departure from a life of solitude and misery and loneliness to one of eternal bliss .
i 'm not sure why you 're laughing .
that was the original intent , was it not ?
we signal transitions of power with rituals .
we signal the passage of a life with rituals .
rituals are terribly important .
they 're all about transformation .
well i would submit to you that the ritual of one individual coming to another and telling them things that they would not tell their preacher or rabbi , and then , incredibly on top of that , disrobing and allowing touch -- i would submit to you that that is a ritual of exceeding importance .
and if you shortchange that ritual by not undressing the patient , by listening with your stethoscope on top of the nightgown , by not doing a complete exam , you have bypassed on the opportunity to seal the patient-physician relationship .
i am a writer , and i want to close by reading you a short passage that i wrote that has to do very much with this scene .
i 'm an infectious disease physician , and in the early days of hiv , before we had our medications , i presided over so many scenes like this .
i remember , every time i went to a patient 's deathbed , whether in the hospital or at home , i remember my sense of failure -- the feeling of i don 't know what i have to say ; i don 't know what i can say ; i don 't know what i 'm supposed to do .
and out of that sense of failure , i remember , i would always examine the patient .
i would pull down the eyelids .
i would look at the tongue .
i would percuss the chest . i would listen to the heart .
i would feel the abdomen .
i remember so many patients , their names still vivid on my tongue , their faces still so clear .
i remember so many huge , hollowed out , haunted eyes staring up at me as i performed this ritual .
and then the next day , i would come , and i would do it again .
and i wanted to read you this one closing passage about one patient .
" i recall one patient who was at that point no more than a skeleton encased in shrinking skin , unable to speak , his mouth crusted with candida that was resistant to the usual medications .
when he saw me on what turned out to be his last hours on this earth , his hands moved as if in slow motion .
and as i wondered what he was up to , his stick fingers made their way up to his pajama shirt , fumbling with his buttons .
i realized that he was wanting to expose his wicker-basket chest to me .
it was an offering , an invitation .
i did not decline .
i percussed . i palpated . i listened to the chest .
i think he surely must have known by then that it was vital for me just as it was necessary for him .
neither of us could skip this ritual , which had nothing to do with detecting rales in the lung , or finding the gallop rhythm of heart failure .
no , this ritual was about the one message that physicians have needed to convey to their patients .
although , god knows , of late , in our hubris , we seem to have drifted away .
we seem to have forgotten -- as though , with the explosion of knowledge , the whole human genome mapped out at our feet , we are lulled into inattention , forgetting that the ritual is cathartic to the physician , necessary for the patient -- forgetting that the ritual has meaning and a singular message to convey to the patient .
and the message , which i didn 't fully understand then , even as i delivered it , and which i understand better now is this : i will always , always , always be there .
i will see you through this .
i will never abandon you .
i will be with you through the end . "
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / michael _ shermer _ on _ believing _ strange _ things.html
why do people see the virgin mary on a cheese sandwich or hear demonic lyrics in " stairway to heaven " ? using video and music , skeptic michael shermer shows how we convince ourselves to believe -- and overlook the facts .
culture , entertainment , faith , illusion , religion , science
22
michael shermer on strange beliefs
hey , i am michael shermer , the director of the skeptics society , the publisher of " skeptic " magazine .
we investigate claims of the paranormal , pseudo-science , and fringe groups and cults and claims of all kinds between -- science and pseudo-science and non-science and junk science , voodoo science , pathological science , bad science , non-science and plain old nonsense .
and unless you 've been on mars recently , you know there 's a lot of that out there .
some people call us debunkers , which is kind of a negative term .
but let 's face it -- there 's a lot of bunk , and we are like the bunko squads of the police departments out there , flushing out .
well , we 're sort of like the ralph naders of bad ideas -- trying to replace bad ideas with good ideas .
i 'll show you an example of a bad idea .
i brought this with me .
this was given to us by nbc dateline to test .
it 's the -- it 's produced by the quadro corporation of west virginia .
it 's called the quadro 2000 dowser rod .
this was being sold to high school administrators for 900 dollars a piece .
it 's a piece of plastic with a radio shack antenna attached to it .
you could dowse for all sorts of things , but this particular one was built to dowse for marijuana in students ' lockers .
so the way it works is , you go down the hallway and you see if it tilts toward a particular locker , and then you open the locker .
so it looks something like this .
i 'll show you .
no , it -- well , it has kind of a right-leaning bias .
so , i 'll show -- well , this is science , so we 'll do a controlled experiment .
it 'll go this way for sure .
sir , you want to empty your pockets . please , sir ?
so the question was , can it actually find marijuana in students ' lockers ?
and the answer is , if you open enough of them , yes .
but in science , we have to keep track of the misses , not just the hits .
and that 's probably the key lesson to my short talk here , is that this is how psychics work , astrologers , and tarot card readers and so on .
people remember the hits ; they forget the misses .
in science we have to keep the whole database , and look to see if the number of hits somehow stands out from the total number that you would expect by chance .
in this case , we tested it .
we had two opaque boxes : one with government-approved thc marijuana , and one with nothing .
and it got it 50 percent of the time --
which is exactly what you 'd expect with a coin flip model .
so that 's just a fun little example here of the sorts of things we do .
" skeptic " is the quarterly publication .
each one has a particular theme , like this one is on the future of intelligence .
are people getting smarter or dumber ?
i have an opinion of this myself because of the business i 'm in ,
but , in fact , people , it turns out , are getting smarter .
three iq points per 10 years , going up .
sort of an interesting thing .
with science , don 't think of skepticism as a thing or even science as a thing .
are science and religion compatible ?
it 's like , are science and plumbing compatible ?
these -- they 're just two different things .
science is not a thing . it 's a verb .
it 's a way of thinking about things .
it 's a way of looking for natural explanations for all phenomena .
i mean , what 's more likely : that extraterrestrial intelligences or multi-dimensional beings travel across the vast distances of interstellar space to leave a crop circle in farmer bob 's field in puckerbrush , kansas to promote skeptic.com , our webpage ?
or is it more likely that a reader of " skeptic " did this with photoshop ?
and in all cases we have to ask -- what 's the more likely explanation ?
and before we say something is out of this world , we should first make sure that it 's not in this world .
what 's more likely -- that arnold had a little extraterrestrial help in his run for the governorship ?
or that the " world weekly news " makes stuff up ?
and part of that -- the same theme is expressed nicely here in this sidney harris cartoon .
for those of you in the back , it says here : " then a miracle occurs .
i think you need to be more explicit here in step two . "
this single slide completely dismantles the intelligent design arguments .
there 's nothing more to it than that .
you can say a miracle occurs .
it 's just that it doesn 't explain anything .
it doesn 't offer anything . there 's nothing to test .
it 's the end of the conversation for intelligent design creationists .
whereas -- and it 's true , scientists sometimes throw terms out as linguistic place fillers -- dark energy or dark matter or something like that --
until we figure out what it is , we 'll just call it this --
it 's the beginning of the causal chain for science .
for intelligent design creationists , it 's the end of the chain .
so again , we can ask this : what 's more likely ? are ufos alien spaceships or perceptual cognitive mistakes -- or even fakes ?
this is a ufo shot from my house in altadena , california , looking down over pasadena .
and if it looks a lot like a buick hubcap , it 's because it is .
you don 't even need photoshop ; you don 't need high-tech equipment ; you don 't need computers .
this was shot with a throwaway kodak instamatic camera .
you just have somebody off on the side with a hubcap ready to go .
camera 's ready -- that 's it .
so , although it 's possible that most of these things are fake or illusions or so on and that some of them are real , it 's more likely that all of them are fake , like the crop circles .
on a more serious note , in all of science we 're looking for a balance between data and theory .
in the case of galileo , he had two problems when he turned his telescope to saturn .
first of all , there was no theory of planetary rings .
and second of all , his data was grainy and fuzzy , and he couldn 't quite make out what it was he was looking at .
so he wrote that he had seen -- " i have observed that the furthest planet has three bodies . "
and this is what he ended up concluding that he saw .
so without a theory of planetary rings and with only grainy data , you can 't have a good theory .
and it wasn 't solved until 1655 .
this is christiaan huygens 's book in which he cataloged all the mistakes that people made in trying to figure out what was going on with saturn .
it wasn 't till -- huygens had two things .
he had a good theory of planetary rings and how the solar system operated .
and then , he had better telescopic , more fine-grain data in which he could figure out that as the earth is going around faster -- according to kepler 's laws -- than saturn , then we catch up with it .
and we see the angles of the rings at different angles , there .
and that , in fact , turns out to be true .
the problems with having a theory is that your theory may be loaded with cognitive biases . so one of the problems of explaining why people believe weird things is that we have things on a simple level .
and then i 'll go to more serious ones .
like , we have a tendency to see faces .
this is the face on mars , which was -- in 1976 , where there was a whole movement to get nasa to photograph that area because people thought this was monumental architecture made by martians .
well , it turns out -- here 's the close-up of it from 2001 .
if you squint , you can still see the face .
and when you 're squinting , what you 're doing is you 're turning that from fine-grain to coarse-grain .
and so , you 're reducing the quality of your data .
and if i didn 't tell you what to look for , you 'd still see the face , because we 're programmed by evolution to see faces .
faces are important for us socially .
and , of course , happy faces .
faces of all kinds are easy to see .
you can see the happy face on mars , there .
if astronomers were frogs perhaps they 'd see kermit the frog .
do you see him there ?
little froggy legs .
or if geologists were elephants ?
religious iconography .
discovered by a tennessee baker in 1996 .
he charged five bucks a head to come see the nun bun till he got a cease-and-desist from mother teresa 's lawyer .
here 's our lady of guadalupe and our lady of watsonville , just down the street ,
or is it up the street from here ?
tree bark is particularly good because it 's nice and grainy , branchy , black-and-white splotchy and you can get the pattern-seeking -- humans are pattern-seeking animals .
here 's the virgin mary on the side of a glass window in sao paulo .
now , here 's the virgin mary made her appearance on a cheese sandwich -- which i got to actually hold in a las vegas casino , of course , this being america .
this casino paid 28,500 dollars on ebay for the cheese sandwich .
but who does it really look like , the virgin mary ?
it has that sort of puckered lips , 1940s-era look .
virgin mary in clearwater , florida .
i actually went to see this one .
there was a lot of people there -- the faithful come to be in their -- wheelchairs and crutches , and so on .
and we went down , investigated .
just to give you a size -- that 's dawkins , me and the amazing randi , next to this two , two and a half story size image .
all these candles , so many thousands of candles people had lit in tribute to this .
so we walked around the backside , just to see what was going on here , where -- it turns out wherever there 's a sprinkler head and a palm tree , you get the effect .
here 's the virgin mary on the backside , which they started to wipe off .
i guess you can only have one miracle per building .
so is it really a miracle of mary , or is it a miracle of marge ?
and then i 'm going to finish up with another example of this with audio -- auditory illusions .
there is this film , " white noise , " with michael keaton about the dead talking back to us .
by the way , this whole business of talking to the dead , it 's not that big a deal .
anybody can do it , turns out .
it 's getting the dead to talk back that 's the really hard part .
in this case , supposedly , these messages are hidden in electronic phenomena .
there 's a reversespeech.com web page from which i downloaded this stuff .
here is the forward -- this is the most famous one of all of these .
here 's the forward version of the very famous song .
boy , couldn 't you just listen to that all day ?
all right , here it is backwards , and see if you can hear the hidden messages that are supposedly in there .
what did you get ?
audience : " satan . " michael shermer : " satan ? " ok , well , at least we got " satan . "
now , i 'll prime your auditory part of your brain to tell you what you 're supposed to hear , and then hear it again .
you can 't miss it when i tell you what 's there .
all right , i 'm going to just end with a positive , nice , little story about -- the skeptics is a nonprofit educational organization .
we 're always looking for little , good things that people do .
and in england , there 's a pop singer .
very -- one of the top popular singers in england today , katie melua .
and she wrote a beautiful song .
it was in the top five in 2005 , called , " nine million bicycles in beijing . "
it 's a love story -- she 's sort of the norah jones of the u.k. -- about how she much loves her guy , and compared to nine million bicycles , and so forth .
and she has this one passage here .
 we are 12 billion light-years from the edge   that 's a guess   no one can ever say it 's true   but i know that i will always be with you  well , that 's nice .
at least she got it close . in america it would be , " we 're 6,000 light years from the edge . "
but my friend , simon singh , the particle physicist now turned science educator , and he wrote the book " the big bang , " and so on .
he uses every chance he gets to promote good science .
and so , he wrote an op-ed piece in " the guardian " about katie 's song , in which he said , well , we know exactly how old , how far from the edge .
you know , it 's 12 -- it 's 13.7 billion light years , and it 's not a guess .
we know within precise error bars there how close it is .
and so , we can say , although not absolutely true , that it 's pretty close to being true .
and , to his credit , katie called him up after this op-ed piece came out .
and said , " i 'm so embarrassed .
i was a member of the astronomy club , and i should have known better . "
and she re-cut the song .
so i 'll end with the new version .
 we are 13.7 billion light years   from the edge of the observable universe   that 's a good estimate with well-defined error bars   and with the available information   i predict that i will always be with you  how cool is that ?
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / dean _ ornish _ on _ the _ world _ s _ killer _ diet.html
stop wringing your hands over aids , cancer and the avian flu . cardiovascular disease kills more people than everything else combined -- and it 's mostly preventable . dr. dean ornish explains how changing our eating habits will save lives .
culture , disease , food , global issues , health , health care , science , short talk
10
dean ornish on the world 's killer diet
with all the legitimate concerns about aids and avian flu -- and we 'll hear about that from the brilliant dr. brilliant later today -- i want to talk about the other pandemic , which is cardiovascular disease , diabetes , hypertension -- all of which are completely preventable for at least 95 percent of people just by changing diet and lifestyle .
and what 's happening is that there 's a globalization of illness occurring , that people are starting to eat like us , and live like us , and die like us . and in one generation , for example , asia 's gone from having one of the lowest rates of heart disease and obesity and diabetes to one of the highest . and in africa , cardiovascular disease equals the hiv and aids deaths in most countries .
so there 's a critical window of opportunity we have to make an important difference that can affect the lives of literally millions of people , and practice preventive medicine on a global scale .
heart and blood vessel diseases still kill more people -- not only in this country , but also worldwide -- than everything else combined , and yet it 's completely preventable for almost everybody .
it 's not only preventable ; it 's actually reversible . and for the last almost 29 years , we 've been able to show that by simply changing diet and lifestyle , using these very high-tech , expensive , state-of-the-art measures to prove how powerful these very simple and low-tech and low-cost interventions can be like -- quantitative arteriography , before and after a year , and cardiac pet scans .
we showed a few months ago -- we published the first study showing you can actually stop or reverse the progression of prostate cancer by making changes in diet and lifestyle , and 70 percent regression in the tumor growth , or inhibition of the tumor growth , compared to only nine percent in the control group .
and in the mri and mr spectroscopy here , the prostate tumor activity is shown in red -- you can see it diminishing after a year .
now there is an epidemic of obesity : two-thirds of adults and 15 percent of kids . what 's really concerning to me is that diabetes has increased 70 percent in the past 10 years , and this may be the first generation in which our kids live a shorter life span than we do . that 's pitiful , and it 's preventable .
now these are not election returns , these are the people -- the number of the people who are obese by state , beginning in ' 85 , ' 86 , ' 87 -- these are from the cdc website -- ' 88 , ' 89 , ' 90 , ' 91 -- you get a new category -- ' 92 , ' 93 , ' 94 , ' 95 , ' 96 , ' 97 , ' 98 , ' 99 , 2000 , 2001 -- it gets worse . we 're
kind of devolving .
now what can we do about this ? well , you know , the diet that we 've found that can reverse heart disease and cancer is an asian diet .
but the people in asia are starting to eat like we are , which is why they 're starting to get sick like we are .
so i 've been working with a lot of the big food companies . they can make it fun and sexy and hip and crunchy and convenient to eat healthier foods , like -- i chair the advisory boards to mcdonald 's , and pepsico , and conagra , and safeway , and soon del monte , and they 're finding that it 's good business .
the salads that you see at mcdonald 's came from the work -- they 're going to have an asian salad . at
pepsi , two-thirds of their revenue growth came from their better foods .
and so if we can do that , then we can free up resources for buying drugs that you really do need for treating aids and hiv and malaria and for preventing avian flu . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jane _ chen _ a _ warm _ embrace _ that _ saves _ lives.html
in the developing world , access to incubators is limited by cost and distance , and millions of premature babies die each year . ted fellow jane chen shows an invention that could keep millions of these infants warm -- a design that 's safe , portable , low-cost and life-saving .
children , design , entrepreneur , health , innovation , invention , medicine
752
jane chen : a warm embrace that saves lives
please close your eyes , and open your hands .
now imagine what you could place in your hands : an apple , maybe your wallet .
now open your eyes .
what about a life ?
what you see here is a premature baby .
he looks like he 's resting peacefully , but in fact he 's struggling to stay alive because he can 't regulate his own body temperature .
this baby is so tiny he doesn 't have enough fat on his body to stay warm .
sadly , 20 million babies like this are born every year around the world .
four million of these babies die annually .
but the bigger problem is that the ones who do survive grow up with severe , long-term health problems .
the reason is because in the first month of a baby 's life , its only job is to grow .
if it 's battling hypothermia , its organs can 't develop normally , resulting in a range of health problems from diabetes , to heart disease , to low i.q .
imagine : many of these problems could be prevented if these babies were just kept warm .
that is the primary function of an incubator .
but traditional incubators require electricity and cost up to 20 thousand dollars .
so , you 're not going to find them in rural areas of developing countries .
as a result , parents resort to local solutions like tying hot water bottles around their babies ' bodies , or placing them under light bulbs like the ones you see here -- methods that are both ineffective and unsafe .
i 've seen this firsthand over and over again .
on one of my first trips to india , i met this young woman , sevitha , who had just given birth to a tiny premature baby , rani .
she took her baby to the nearest village clinic , and the doctor advised her to take rani to a city hospital so she could be placed in an incubator .
but that hospital was over four hours away ,
and sevitha didn 't have the means to get there , so her baby died .
inspired by this story , and dozens of other similar stories like this , my team and i realized what was needed was a local solution , something that could work without electricity , that was simple enough for a mother or a midwife to use , given that the majority of births still take place in the home .
we needed something that was portable , something that could be sterilized and reused across multiple babies and something ultra-low-cost , compared to the 20,000 dollars that an incubator in the u.s. costs .
so , this is what we came up with .
what you see here looks nothing like an incubator . it looks like a small sleeping bag for a baby .
you can open it up completely . it 's waterproof .
there 's no seams inside so you can sterilize it very easily .
but the magic is in this pouch of wax .
this is a phase-change material .
it 's a wax-like substance with a melting point of human body temperature , 37 degrees celsius .
you can melt this simply using hot water and then when it melts it 's able to maintain one constant temperature for four to six hours at a time , after which you simply reheat the pouch .
so , you then place it into this little pocket back here , and it creates a warm micro-environment for the baby .
looks simple , but we 've reiterated this dozens of times by going into the field to talk to doctors , moms and clinicians to ensure that this really meets the needs of the local communities .
we plan to launch this product in india in 2010 ,
and the target price point will be 25 dollars , less than 0.1 percent of the cost of a traditional incubator .
over the next five years we hope to save the lives of almost a million babies .
but the longer-term social impact is a reduction in population growth .
this seems counterintuitive , but turns out that as infant mortality is reduced , population sizes also decrease , because parents don 't need to anticipate that their babies are going to die .
we hope that the embrace infant warmer and other simple innovations like this represent a new trend for the future of technology : simple , localized , affordable solutions that have the potential to make huge social impact .
in designing this we followed a few basic principles .
we really tried to understand the end user , in this case , people like sevitha .
we tried to understand the root of the problem rather than being biased by what already exists .
and then we thought of the most simple solution we could to address this problem .
in doing this , i believe we can truly bring technology to the masses .
and we can save millions of lives through the simple warmth of an embrace .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / seth _ godin _ on _ the _ tribes _ we _ lead.html
seth godin argues the internet has ended mass marketing and revived a human social unit from the distant past : tribes . founded on shared ideas and values , tribes give ordinary people the power to lead and make big change . he urges us to do so .
book , communication , community , marketing , social media , society
538
seth godin on the tribes we lead
so sometimes i get invited to give weird talks .
i got invited to speak to the people who dress up in big stuffed animal costumes to perform at sporting events .
unfortunately i couldn 't go .
but it got me thinking about the fact that these guys , at least most of them , know what it is that they do for a living .
what they do is they dress up as stuffed animals and entertain people at sporting events .
shortly after that i got invited to speak at the convention of the people who make balloon animals .
and again , i couldn 't go . but it 's a fascinating group . they make balloon animals .
there is a big schism between the ones who make gospel animals and porn animals , but --
they do a lot of really cool stuff with balloons .
sometimes they get in trouble , but not often .
and the other thing about these guys is , they also know what they do for a living .
they make balloon animals .
but what do we do for a living ?
what exactly to the people watching this do every day ?
and i want to argue that what we do is we try to change everything .
that we try to find a piece of the status quo -- something that bothers us , something that needs to be improved , something that is itching to be changed -- and we change it .
we try to make big , permanent , important change .
but we don 't think about it that way .
and we haven 't spent a lot of time talking about what that process is like .
and i 've been studying it for a couple years .
and i want to share a couple stories with you today .
first , about a guy named nathan winograd .
nathan was the number two person at the san francisco spca .
and what you may not know about the history of the spca is , it was founded to kill dogs and cats .
cities gave them a charter to get rid of the stray animals on the street and destroy them .
in a typical year four million dogs and cats were killed , most of them within 24 hours of being scooped off of the street .
nathan and his boss saw this ,
and they could not tolerate it .
so they set out to make san francisco a no-kill city :
create an entire city where every dog and cat , unless it was ill or dangerous , would be adopted , not killed .
and everyone said it was impossible .
nathan and his boss went to the city council to get a change in the ordinance . and people from spcas and humane shelters around the country flew to san francisco to testify against them -- to say it would hurt the movement and it was inhumane .
they persisted . and nathan went directly to the community .
he connected with people who cared about this :
nonprofessionals , people with passion .
and within just a couple years , san francisco became the first no-kill city ,
running no deficit , completely supported by the community .
nathan left and went to tompkins county , new york --
a place as different from san francisco as you can be and still be in the united states . and he did it again .
he went from being a glorified dogcatcher to completely transforming the community .
and then he went to north carolina and did it again .
and he went to reno and he did it again .
and when i think about what nathan did , and when i think about what people here do , i think about ideas .
and i think about the idea that creating an idea , spreading an idea has a lot behind it .
i don 't know if you 've ever been to a jewish wedding ,
but what they do is , they take a light bulb and they smash it .
now there is a bunch of reasons for that , and stories about it .
but one reason is because it indicates a change , from before to after .
it is a moment in time .
and i want to argue that we are living through and are right at the key moment of a change in the way ideas are created and spread and implemented .
we started with the factory idea :
that you could change the whole world if you had an efficient factory that could churn out change .
we then went to the tv idea ,
that said if you had a big enough mouthpiece , if you could get on tv enough times , if you could buy enough ads , you could win .
and now we 're in this new model of leadership ,
where the way we make change is not by using money or power to lever a system , but by leading .
so let me tell you about the three cycles . the first one is the factory cycle .
henry ford comes up with a really cool idea .
it enables him to hire men who used to get paid 50 cents a day and pay them five dollars a day . because he 's got an efficient enough factory .
well with that sort of advantage you can churn out a lot of cars .
you can make a lot of change . you can get roads built .
you can change the fabric of an entire country .
that the essence of what you 're doing is you need ever-cheaper labor , and ever-faster machines . and the problem we 've run into is , we 're running out of both .
ever-cheaper labor and ever-faster machines .
so we shift gears for a minute , and say , " i know : television ;
advertising . push push .
take a good idea and push it on the world .
i have a better mousetrap . and if i can just get enough money to tell enough people , i 'll sell enough . "
and you can build an entire industry on that .
if necessary you can put babies in your ads .
if necessary you can use babies to sell other stuff .
and if babies don 't work , you can use doctors .
but be careful . because you don 't want to get an unfortunate juxtaposition , where you 're talking about one thing instead of the other .
this model requires you to act like the king , like the person in the front of the room throwing things to the peons in the back .
that you are in charge , and you 're going to tell people what to do next .
the quick little diagram of it is , you 're up here , and you are pushing it out to the world .
this method -- mass marketing -- requires average ideas , because you 're going to the masses , and plenty of ads .
what we 've done as spammers is tried to hypnotize everyone into buying our idea ,
hypnotize everyone into donating to our cause ,
hypnotize everyone into voting for our candidate .
and , unfortunately , it doesn 't work so well anymore either .
but there is good news around the corner -- really good news .
i call it the idea of tribes .
what tribes are , is a very simple concept that goes back 50,000 years .
it 's about leading and connecting people and ideas .
and it 's something that people have wanted forever .
lots of people are used to having a spiritual tribe , or a church tribe , having a work tribe , having a community tribe .
but now , thanks to the internet , thanks to the explosion of mass media , thanks to a lot of other things that are bubbling through our society around the world , tribes are everywhere .
the internet was supposed to homogenize everyone by connecting us all .
instead what it 's allowed is silos of interest .
so you 've got the red-hat ladies over here .
you 've got the red-hat triathletes over there .
you 've got the organized armies over here .
you 've got the disorganized rebels over here .
you 've got people in white hats making food .
and people in white hats sailing boats .
the point is that you can find ukrainian folk dancers and connect with them ,
because you want to be connected .
that people on the fringes can find each other , connect and go somewhere .
every town that has a volunteer fire department understands this way of thinking .
now it turns out this is a legitimate non-photoshopped photo .
people i know who are firemen told me that this is not uncommon . and that what firemen do to train sometimes is they take a house that is going to be torn down , and they burn it down instead , and practice putting it out .
but they always stop and take a picture .
you know the pirate tribe is a fascinating one .
they 've got their own flag . they 've got the eye patches .
you can tell when you 're running into someone in a tribe .
and it turns out that it 's tribes -- not money , not factories -- that can change our world , that can change politics , that can align large numbers of people .
not because you force them to do something against their will ,
but because they wanted to connect .
that what we do for a living now , all of us , i think , is find something worth changing , and then assemble tribes that assemble tribes that spread the idea and spread the idea .
and it becomes something far bigger than ourselves ,
it becomes a movement .
so when al gore set out to change the world again , he didn 't do it by himself .
and he didn 't do it by buying a lot of ads .
he did it by creating a movement .
thousands of people around the country who could give his presentation for him ,
because he can 't be in 100 or 200 or 500 cities in each night .
you don 't need everyone .
what kevin kelley has taught us is you just need , i don 't know , a thousand true fans --
a thousand people who care enough that they will get you the next round and the next round and the next round .
and that means that the idea you create , the product you create , the movement you create isn 't for everyone ,
it 's not a mass thing . that 's not what this is about .
what it 's about instead is finding the true believers .
it 's easy to look at what i 've said so far , and say , " wait a minute , i don 't have what it takes to be that kind of leader . "
so here are two leaders . they don 't have a lot in common .
they 're about the same age . but that 's about it .
what they did , though , is each in their own way , created a different way of navigating your way through technology .
so some people will go out and get people to be on one team . and some people will get people to be on the other team .
it also informs the decisions you make when you make products or services .
you know , this is one of my favorite devices .
but what a shame that it 's not organized to help authors create movements .
what would happen if , when you 're using your kindle , you could see the comments and quotes and notes from all the other people reading the same book as you in that moment .
or from your book group . or from your friends , or from the circle you want .
what would happen if authors , or people with ideas could use version two , which comes out on monday , and use it to organize people who want to talk about something .
now there is a million things i could share with you about the mechanics here .
but let me just try a couple .
the beatles did not invent teenagers .
they merely decided to lead them .
that most movements , most leadership that we 're doing is about finding a group that 's disconnected but already has a yearning --
not persuading people to want something they don 't have yet .
when diane hatz worked on " the meatrix , " her video that spread all across the internet about the way farm animals are treated , she didn 't invent the idea of being a vegan .
she didn 't invent the idea of caring about this issue .
but she helped organize people , and helped turn it into a movement .
hugo chavez did not invent the disaffected middle and lower class of venezuela . he merely led them .
bob marley did not invent rastafarians .
he just stepped up and said , " follow me . "
derek sivers invented cd baby , which allowed independent musicians to have a place to sell their music without selling out to the man --
to have place to take the mission they already wanted to go to , and connect with each other .
what all these people have in common is that they are heretics .
that heretics look at the status quo and say , " this will not stand . i can 't abide this status quo .
i am willing to stand up and be counted and move things forward .
i see what the status quo is ; i don 't like it . "
that instead of looking at all the little rules and following each one of them , that instead of being what i call a sheepwalker -- somebody who 's half asleep , following instructions , keeping their head down , fitting in -- every once in a while someone stands up and says , " not me . "
someone stands up and says , " this one is important .
we need to organize around it . "
and not everyone will . but you don 't need everyone .
you just need a few people -- -- who will look at the rules , realize they make no sense , and realize how much they want to be connected .
so tony shea does not run a shoe store .
zappos isn 't a shoe store .
zappos is the one , the only , the best-there-ever-was place for people who are into shoes to find each other , to talk about their passion , to connect with people who care more about customer service than making a nickel tomorrow .
it can be something as prosaic as shoes , and something as complicated as overthrowing a government .
it 's exactly the same behavior though .
what it requires , as geraldine carter has discovered , is to be able to say , " i can 't do this by myself .
but if i can get other people to join my climb and ride , then together we can get something that we all want .
we 're just waiting for someone to lead us . "
michelle kaufman has pioneered new ways of thinking about environmental architecture .
she doesn 't do it by quietly building one house at a time .
she does it by telling a story to people who want to hear it .
by connecting a tribe of people who are desperate to be connected to each other .
by leading a movement and
making change .
and around and around and around it goes .
so three questions i 'd offer you .
the first one is , who exactly are you upsetting ?
because if you 're not upsetting anyone , you 're not changing the status quo .
the second question is , who are you connecting ?
because for a lot of people , that 's what they 're in it for :
the connections that are being made , one to the other .
and the third one is , who are you leading ?
because focusing on that part of it -- not the mechanics of what you 're building , but the who , and the leading part -- is where change comes .
so blake , at tom 's shoes , had a very simple idea .
" what would happen if every time someone bought a pair of these shoes i gave exactly the same pair to someone who doesn 't even own a pair of shoes ? "
this is not the story of how you get shelf space at neiman marcus .
it 's a story of a product that tells a story .
and as you walk around with this remarkable pair of shoes and someone says , " what are those ? "
you get to tell the story on blake 's behalf , on behalf of the people who got the shoes .
and suddenly it 's not one pair of shoes or 100 pairs of shoes . it 's tens of thousands of pairs of shoes .
my friend red maxwell has spent the last 10 years fighting against juvenile diabetes .
not fighting the organization that 's fighting it -- fighting with them , leading them , connecting them , challenging the status quo because it 's important to him .
and the people he surrounds himself with need the connection .
they need the leadership . it makes a difference .
you don 't need permission from people to lead them .
but in case you do , here it is :
they 're waiting , we 're waiting for you to show us where to go next .
so here is what leaders have in common . the first thing is , they challenge the status quo .
they challenge what 's currently there .
the second thing is , they build a culture .
a secret language , a seven-second handshake ,
a way of knowing that you 're in or out .
they have curiosity . curiosity about people in the tribe ,
curiosity about outsiders . they 're asking questions .
they connect people to one another .
do you know what people want more than anything ?
they want to be missed .
they want to be missed the day they don 't show up .
they want to be missed when they 're gone .
and tribe leaders can do that .
it 's fascinating , because all tribe leaders have charisma ,
but you don 't need charisma to become a leader .
being a leader gives you charisma .
if you look and study the leaders who have succeeded , that 's where charisma comes from -- from the leading .
finally , they commit .
they commit to the cause . they commit to the tribe .
they commit to the people who are there .
so i 'd like you to do something for me .
and i hope you 'll think about it before you reject it out-of-hand .
what i want you to do , it only takes 24 hours , is : create a movement .
something that matters . start . do it . we need it .
thank you very much . i appreciate it .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / shereen _ el _ feki _ pop _ culture _ in _ the _ arab _ world.html
at tedglobal university , shereen el feki shows how some arab cultures are borrowing trademarks of western pop culture -- music videos , comics , even barbie -- and adding a culturally appropriate twist . the hybridized media shows how two civilizations , rather than dividing , can dovetail .
culture , entertainment , global issues , media , music
710
shereen el feki : pop culture in the arab world
you can see , it 's always reacting .
this is not a dead body . this is a body who basically , in this particular case , feels the force and tries to protect its head .
only , i think it 's quite a big blow again .
you feel kind of sorry for that thing , and we 've seen it so many times now that we don 't really care any more .
there are much worse videos than this , by the way , which i have taken out , but ...
now , here 's another one .
what people wanted as a behavior was to have an explosion , a strong force applied to the character , and have the character react to it in midair .
so that you don 't have a character that looks limp , but actually a character that you can use in an action film straight away , that looks kind of alive in midair as well .
so this character is going to be hit by a force , it 's going to realize it 's in the air , and it 's going to try and , well , stick out its arm in the direction where it 's landing .
that 's one angle ; here 's another angle .
we now think that the realism we 're achieving with this is good enough to be used in films .
and let 's just have a look at a slightly different visualization .
this is something i just got last night from an animation studio in london , who are using our software and experimenting with it right now .
so this is exactly the same behavior that you saw , but in a slightly better rendered version .
so if you look at the character carefully , you see there are lots of body movements going on , none of which you have to animate like in the old days .
animators had to actually animate them .
this is all happening automatically in the simulation .
this is a slightly different angle , and again a slow motion version of this .
this is incredibly quick . this is happening in real time .
you can run this simulation in real time , in front of your eyes , change it , if you want to , and you get the animation straight out of it .
at the moment , doing something like this by hand would take you probably a couple of days .
this is another behavior they requested .
i 'm not quite sure why , but we 've done it anyway .
it 's a very simple behavior that shows you the power of this approach .
in this case , the character 's hands are fixed to a particular point in space , and all we 've told the character to do is to struggle .
and it looks organic . it looks realistic .
you feel kind of sorry for the guy .
it 's even worse -- and that is another video i just got last night -- if you render that a bit more realistically .
now , i 'm showing this to you just to show you how organic it actually can feel , how realistic it can look .
and this is all a physical simulation of the body , using ai to drive virtual muscles in that body .
now , one thing which we did for a laugh was to create a slightly more complex stunt scene , and one of the most famous stunts is the one where james bond jumps off a dam in switzerland and then is caught by a bungee .
got a very short clip here .
yes , you can just about see it here .
in this case , they were using a real stunt man . it was a very dangerous stunt .
it was just voted , i think in the sunday times , as one of the most impressive stunts .
now , we 've just tried and -- looked at our character and asked ourselves , " can we do that ourselves as well ? "
can we use the physical simulation of the character , use artificial intelligence , put that artificial intelligence into the character , drive virtual muscles , simulate the way he jumps off the dam , and then skydive afterwards , and have him caught by a bungee afterwards ?
we did that . it took about altogether just two hours , pretty much , to create the simulation .
and that 's what it looks like , here .
now , this could do with a bit more work . it 's still very early stages , and we pretty much just did this for a laugh , just to see what we 'd get out of it .
but what we found over the past few months is that this approach -- that we 're pretty much standard upon -- is incredibly powerful .
we are ourselves surprised what you actually get out of the simulations .
there 's very often very surprising behavior that you didn 't predict before .
there 's so many things we can do with this right now .
the first thing , as i said , is going to be virtual stuntmen .
several studios are using this software now to produce virtual stuntmen , and they 're going to hit the screen quite soon , actually , for some major productions .
the second thing is video games .
with this technology , video games will look different and they will feel very different .
for the first time , you 'll have actors that really feel very interactive , that have real bodies that really react .
i think that 's going to be incredibly exciting .
probably starting with sports games , which are going to become much more interactive .
but i particularly am really excited about using this technology in online worlds , like there , for example , that tom melcher has shown us .
the degree of interactivity you 're going to get is totally different , i think , from what you 're getting right now .
a third thing we are looking at and very interested in is simulation .
we 've been approached by several simulation companies , but one project we 're particularly excited about , which we 're starting next month , is to use our technology -- and in particular , the walking technology -- to help aid surgeons who work on children with cerebral palsy , to predict the outcome of operations on these children .
as you probably know , it 's very difficult to predict what the outcome of an operation is if you try and correct the gait .
the classic quote is , i think , it 's unpredictable at best , is what people think right now , is the outcome .
now , what we want to do with our software is allow our surgeons to have a tool .
we 're going to simulate the gait of a particular child and the surgeon can then work on that simulation and try out different ways to improve that gait , before he actually commits to an actual surgery .
that 's one project we 're particularly excited about , and that 's going to start next month .
just finally , this is only just the beginning .
we can only do several behaviors right now .
the ai isn 't good enough to simulate a full human body .
the body yes , but not all the motor skills that we have .
and , i think , we 're only there if we can have something like ballet dancing .
right now , we don 't have that but i 'm very sure that we will be able to do that at some stage .
we do have one unintentional dancer actually , the last thing i 'm going to show you .
this was an ai contour that was produced and evolved -- half-evolved , i should say -- to produce balance , basically .
so , you kick the guy and the guy 's supposed to counter-balance .
that 's what we thought was going to come out of this .
but this is what emerged out of it , in the end .
bizarrely , this thing doesn 't have a head . i 'm not quite sure why .
so , this was not something we actually put in there .
he just started to create that dance himself .
he 's actually a better dancer than i am , i have to say .
and what you see after a while -- i think he even goes into a climax right at the end .
so , that all happened automatically . we didn 't put that in there .
that 's just the simulation creating this itself , basically .
so it 's just -- thanks .
not quite john travolta yet , but we 're working on that as well ,
thanks .
ca : incredible . that was really incredible .
tr : thanks .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / raghava _ kk _ shake _ up _ your _ story.html
artist raghava kk demos his new children 's book for ipad with a fun feature : when you shake it , the story -- and your perspective -- changes . in this charming short talk , he invites all of us to shake up our perspective a little bit .
arts , book , creativity , design , entertainment , technology
1219
raghava kk : shake up your story
hi everyone .
i 'm an artist and a dad -- second time around .
thank you .
and i want to share with you my latest art project .
it 's a children 's book for the ipad .
it 's a little quirky and silly .
it 's called " pop-it , " and it 's about the things little kids do with their parents .
so this is about potty training -- as most of you , i hope , know .
you can tickle the rug .
you can make the baby poop .
you can do all those fun things .
you can burst bubbles .
you can draw , as everyone should .
but you know , i have a problem with children 's books : i think they 're full of propaganda .
at least an indian trying to get one of these american books in park slope , forget it .
it 's not the way i was brought up .
so i said , " i 'm going to counter this with my own propaganda . " if you notice carefully , it 's a homosexual couple bringing up a child .
you don 't like it ?
shake it , and you have a lesbian couple .
shake it , and you have a heterosexual couple .
you know , i don 't even believe in the concept of an ideal family .
i have to tell you about my childhood .
i went to this very proper christian school taught by nuns , fathers , brothers , sisters .
basically , i was brought up to be a good samaritan , and i am .
and i 'd go at the end of the day to a traditional hindu house , which was probably the only hindu house in a predominantly islamic neighborhood .
basically , i celebrated every religious function .
in fact , when there was a wedding in our neighborhood , all of us would paint our houses for the wedding .
i remember we cried profusely when the little goats we played with in the summer became biriani .
we all had to fast during ramadan .
it was a very beautiful time .
but i must say , i 'll never forget , when i was 13 years old , this happened .
babri masjid -- one of the most beautiful mosques in india , built by king babur , i think , in the 16th century -- was demolished by hindu activists .
this caused major riots in my city .
and for the first time , i was affected by this communal unrest .
my little five-year-old kid neighbor comes running in , and he says , " rags , rags .
you know the hindus are killing us muslims . be careful . " i 'm like , " dude , i 'm hindu . " he 's like , " huh ! " you know , my work is inspired by events such as this .
even in my gallery shows , i try and revisit historic events like babri masjid , distill only its emotional residue and image my own life .
imagine history being taught differently .
remember that children 's book where you shake and the sexuality of the parents change ?
i have another idea .
it 's a children 's book about indian independence -- very patriotic .
but when you shake it , you get pakistan 's perspective .
shake it again , and you get the british perspective .
you have to separate fact from bias , right .
even my books on children have cute , fuzzy animals .
but they 're playing geopolitics .
they 're playing out israel-palestine , india-pakistan .
you know , i 'm making a very important argument .
and my argument [ is ] that the only way for us to teach creativity is by teaching children perspectives at the earliest stage .
after all , children 's books are manuals on parenting , so you better give them children 's books that teach them perspectives .
and conversely , only when you teach perspectives will a child be able to imagine and put themselves in the shoes of someone who is different from them .
i 'm making an argument that art and creativity are very essential tools in empathy .
you know , i can 't promise my child a life without bias -- we 're all biased -- but i promise to bias my child with multiple perspectives .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / david _ pogue _ says _ simplicity _ sells.html
< i > new york times < / i > columnist david pogue takes aim at technology 's worst interface-design offenders , and provides encouraging examples of products that get it right . to funny things up , he bursts into song .
computers , entertainment , interface design , media , music , performance , software , technology
7
david pogue says " simplicity sells "
hello voicemail , my old friend .
i 've called for tech support again .
i ignored my boss ' warning . i called on a monday morning .
now it 's evening , and my dinner first grew cold -- and then grew mold . i 'm still on hold . i 'm listening to the sounds of silence .
i don 't think you understand . i think your phone lines are unmanned .
i punched every touch tone i was told ,
but i still spent 18 hours on hold .
it 's not enough your software crashed my mac and it constantly hangs and bombs -- it erased my roms ! now the mac makes the sounds of silence .
in my dreams i fantasize of wreaking vengeance on you guys .
say your motorcycle crashes . blood comes gushing from your gashes . with your fading strength , you call 9-1-1 and you pray for a trained md . but you get me . and you listen to the sounds of silence .
thank you . good evening and welcome to " spot the ted presenter who used to be a broadway accompanist . " ok . when i was offered the times column six years ago , the deal was like this : you 'll be sent the coolest , hottest , slickest new gadgets .
every week it 'll arrive at your door .
you get to try them out , play with them , evaluate them until the novelty wears out , before you have to send them back .
and you 'll get paid for it . you can think about it , if you want .
i 've always been a technology nut , and i absolutely love it .
the job , though , came with one small downside . and that is : they intended to publish my email address at the end of every column .
and what i 've noticed is -- first of all , you get an incredible amount of email .
if you ever are feeling lonely , get a new york times column , because you will get hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of emails . and the email i 'm getting a lot today is about frustration .
people are feeling like things -- ok , i just had an alarm come up on my screen . lucky you can 't see it .
people are feeling overwhelmed . they 're feeling like it 's too much technology too fast .
it may be good technology , but i feel like there 's not enough of a support structure .
there 's not enough help . there 's not enough thought put into the design of it to make it easy and enjoyable to use .
one time i wrote a column about my efforts to reach dell technical support , and within 12 hours there were 700 messages from readers on the feedback boards on the times website , from users saying , " me too ! " and , " here 's my tale of woe . " i call it " software rage . "
and man , let me tell you , whoever figures out how to make money off of this frustration will -- oh , how did that get up there ? just kidding .
ok , so why is the problem accelerating ? part of the problem is , ironically , because the industry has put so much thought into making things easier to use .
i 'll show you what i mean .
this is what the computer interface used to look like , dos .
over the years it 's gotten easier to use .
this is the original mac operating system .
reagan was president . madonna was still a brunette .
and the entire operating system -- this is the good part -- the entire operating system fit in 211k .
you couldn 't put the mac os 10 logo in 211k !
so the irony is that as these things became easier to use a less technical , broader audience was coming into contact with this equipment for the first time .
i once had the distinct privilege of sitting in on the apple call center for a day .
the guy had a duplicate headset for me to listen to .
and the calls that -- you know how they say , " your call may be recorded for quality assurance ? "
mm-mmm . your call may be recorded so that they can collect the funniest dumb user stories and pass them around on a cd .
which they do .
and i have a copy .
it 's in your tedgift bag . no , no .
with your voices on it !
some of the stories are just so classic , and yet so understandable .
a woman called apple to complain that her mouse was squeaking -- making a squeaking noise .
and the technician said , " well , ma 'am , what do you mean your mouse is squeaking ? "
she says , " all i can tell you is that it squeaks louder the faster i move it across the screen . " and the technician 's like , " ma 'am , you 've got the mouse up against the screen ? "
she goes , " well , the message said , ' click here to continue . ' " well , if you like that one , how much time have we got ?
another one , a guy called -- this is absolutely true ! --
his computer had crashed , and he told the technician he couldn 't restart it no matter how many times he typed 11 .
and the technician said , " what ? why are you typing 11 ? " he said , " the message says , ' error type 11 . ' " so we must admit that some of the blame falls squarely at the feet of the users .
but why is the technical overload crisis , the complexity crisis , accelerating now ? in the hardware world , it 's because we the consumers want everything to be smaller , smaller , smaller .
so the gadgets are getting tinier and tinier but our fingers are essentially staying the same size .
so it gets to be more and more of a challenge .
software is subject to another primal force : the mandate to release more and more versions .
when you buy a piece of software , it 's not like buying a vase or a candy bar , where you own it .
it 's more like joining a club where you pay dues every year .
and every year , they say , " we 've added more features and we 'll sell it to you for $ 99 . " i know one guy who 's spent $ 4,000 just on photoshop over the years .
and software companies make 35 percent of their revenue from just these software upgrades .
i call it the software upgrade paradox -- which is that if you improve a piece of software enough times , you eventually ruin it .
i mean , microsoft word was last just a word processor in , you know , the eisenhower administration .
but what 's the alternative ? microsoft actually did this experiment . they said , " well , wait a minute . everyone complains that we 're adding so many features .
let 's create a word processor that 's just a word processor .
simple , pure , does not do web pages , is not a database . "
and it came out . it was called microsoft write .
and none of you are nodding in acknowledgment because it died .
it tanked . no one ever bought it .
i call this the sport utility principle . people like to surround themselves with unnecessary power , right ?
they don 't need the database and the website , but they 're like , " well , i 'll upgrade , because , i might , you know , i might need that someday . "
so the problem is : as you add more features , where are they going to go ?
where are you going to stick them ? you only have so many design tools .
you can do buttons ; you can do sliders , pop-up menus , sub-menus .
but if you 're not careful about how you choose , you wind up with this .
this is an un-retouched -- this is not a joke -- un-retouched photo of microsoft word , the copy that you have , with all the toolbars open .
you 've obviously never opened all the toolbars , but all you have to type in is this little , teeny window down here .
and we 've arrived at the age of interface matrices , where there are so many features and options , you have to do two dimensions , you know :
a vertical and a horizontal . you guys all complained about how microsoft word is always bulleting your lists and underlining your links automatically .
the off switch is in there somewhere .
i 'm telling you , it 's there !
part of the art of designing a simple , good interface , is knowing when to use which one of these features .
here is the log off dialog box for windows 2000 .
there are only four choices ,
so why are they in a pop-up menu ?
it 's not like the rest of the screen is so full of other components that you need to collapse the choices . they could have put them all out in view .
here 's apple 's take on the exact same dialog box .
thank you -- yes , i designed the dialog box . no , no , no .
already , we can see that apple and microsoft have a severely divergent approach to software design .
microsoft 's approach to simplicity tends to be : let 's break it down ; let 's just make it more steps . there are these " wizards " everywhere .
and you know , there 's a new version of windows coming out this fall .
if they continue at this pace , there 's absolutely no telling where they might wind up .
" welcome to the type-a-word wizard . " ok , i 'll bite . let 's click " next " to continue .
from the drop-down menu , choose the first letter you want to type . ok .
so there is a limit that we don 't want to cross . so what is the answer ?
how do you pack in all these features in a simple , intelligent way ?
i believe in consistency with possible , real-world equivalents , trashcan folder when possible , label things mostly . but i beg of the designers here to break all those rules if they violate the biggest rule of all , which is intelligence . now what do i mean by that ?
i 'm going to give you some examples where intelligence makes something not consistent , but it 's better .
if you are buying something on the web , you 're supposed to put in your address and you 're supposed to choose which country you 're from , ok ?
there are 200 countries in the world . we like to think of the internet as a global village . i 'm sorry ; it 's not one yet .
it 's mainly , like , the united states , europe and japan .
so why is united states in the " u " s ?
you have to scroll , like , seven screens-full to get to it .
now it would be inconsistent to put united states first , but it would be intelligent . this one 's been touched on before , but why in god 's name do you shut down a windows pc by clicking a button called " start ? "
here 's another pet one of mine : you have a printer .
most of the time , you want to print one copy of your document , in page order , on that printer .
so why in god 's name do you see this every time you print ?
it 's like a 747 shuttle cockpit .
and one of the buttons at the bottom , you 'll notice , is not " print . "
now , i 'm not saying that apple is the only company who has embraced the cult of simplicity .
palm is also , especially in the old days , wonderful about this .
i actually got to speak to palm when they were flying high in the ' 90s , and after the talk , i met one of the employees .
he says , " nice talk . " and i said , " thank you , what do you do here ? "
he said , " i 'm a tap counter . "
i 'm like , " you 're a what ? " he goes , " well , jeff hawkins , the ceo , says , ' if any task on the palm pilot takes more than three taps of the stylus , it 's too long , and it has to be redesigned . ' so i 'm the tap counter . "
i 'm going to show you an example of a company that does not have a tap counter .
this is microsoft word . when you want to create a new blank document in word -- it could happen !
-- you go up to the file menu and you choose " new . " now , what happens when you choose " new ? " do you get a new blank document ?
you do not .
on the opposite side of the monitor , a task bar appears , and somewhere in those links -- by the way , not at the top -- somewhere in those links is a button that makes you a new document .
that is a company not counting taps .
you know , i don 't want to just stand here and make fun of microsoft ...
audience : go on .
david pogue : yes , i do .
the bill gates song !
i 've been a geek forever and i wrote the very first dos .
i put my software and ibm together ; i got profit and they got the loss .
i write the code that makes the whole world run .
i 'm gettin ' royalties from everyone .
sometimes it 's garbage , but the press is snowed .
you buy the box ; i 'll sell the code .
every software company is doing microsoft 's r & d .
you can 't keep a good idea down these days .
even windows is a hack . we 're kind of based loosely on the mac .
so it 's big , so it 's slow . you 've got nowhere to go . i 'm not doing this for praise . i write the code that fits the world today .
big mediocrity in every way . we 've entered planet domination mode . you 'll have no choice ; you 'll buy my code .
i am bill gates and i write the code .
but actually , i believe there are really two microsofts .
there 's the old one , responsible for windows and office .
they 're dying to throw the whole thing out and start fresh , but they can 't . they 're locked in because so many add-ons and other company stuff locks into the old 1982 chassis .
but there 's also a new microsoft that 's really doing good , simple interface designs .
i liked the media center pc . i liked the microsoft spot watch .
the wireless watch flopped miserably in the market , but it wasn 't because it wasn 't simply and beautifully designed .
let 's put it this way : would you pay $ 10 a month to have a watch that has to be recharged every night , like your cell phone , and stops working when you leave your area code ?
the signs might indicate that the complexity crunch is only going to get worse .
so is there any hope ? the screens are getting smaller .
people are illuminating , putting manuals in the boxes .
the things are coming out at a faster pace .
it 's funny -- when steve jobs came back to apple in 1997 , after 12 years away , it was the macworld expo --
he came to the stage in that black turtleneck and jeans , and he sort of did this . the crowd went wild , but i 'm like , where have i seen this before ? i had just seen the movie " evita " -- -- with madonna , and i 'm like , you know what , i 've got to do one about steve jobs .
it won 't be easy . you 'll think i 'm strange .
when i try to explain why i 'm back after telling the press apple 's future is black .
you won 't believe me .
all that you see is a kid in his teens who started out in a garage with only a buddy named woz .
you try rhyming with garage !
don 't cry for me , cupertino .
the truth is , i never left you .
i know the ropes now , know what the tricks are .
i made a fortune over at pixar .
don 't cry for me , cupertino . i 've still got the drive and vision . i still wear sandals in any weather . it 's just that these days , they 're gucci leather .
thank you . so steve jobs had always believed in simplicity and elegance and beauty . and the truth is , for years i was a little depressed -- because americans obviously did not value it , because the mac had three percent market share and windows had 95 percent market share .
people did not think it was worth putting a price on it .
so i was a little depressed -- then i heard al gore 's talk , and i realized i didn 't know the meaning of depressed .
but it turns out i was wrong , right ? because the ipod came out , and it violated every bit of common wisdom .
other products cost less . other products had more features .
they had voice recorders and fm transmitters .
the other products were backed by microsoft with an open standard , not apple 's propriety standard .
but the ipod won ! this is the one they wanted .
the lesson was : simplicity sells .
and there are signs that the industry is getting the message .
this is a little company that 's done very well with simplicity and elegance .
the sonos thing -- it 's catching on .
i 've got just a couple examples . physically , a really cool , elegant , thinking coming along lately .
when you have a digital camera , how do you get the pictures back to your computer ?
well , you either haul around a usb cable or you buy a card reader and haul that around .
either one , you 're going to lose . what i do is , i take out the memory card , and i fold it in half , revealing usb contacts .
i just stick it in the computer , offload the pictures , put it right back in the camera . i never have to lose anything .
here 's another example . chris , you 're the source of all power .
will you be my power plug ?
chris anderson : oh yeah .
dp : hold that and don 't let go . you might have seen this : this is apple 's new laptop . this is the power cord . it hooks on like this .
and i 'm sure every one of you has done this at some point in your lives , or one of your children . you walk along -- and i 'm about to pull this onto the floor . i don 't care . it 's a loaner .
here we go . whoa ! it 's magnetic . it doesn 't pull the laptop onto the floor .
in my very last example -- i do a lot of my work using speech recognition software , and you have to be kind of quiet because the software is nervous .
" speech recognition software is really great for doing emails very quickly . period .
like , i get hundreds of them a day . period .
and it 's not just what i dictate that it writes down . period .
i also use this feature called voice macros . period . "
correct " dissuade . " " not just . "
okay , this is not an ideal situation , because it 's getting the echo from the hall and stuff .
but the point is : i can respond to people very quickly by saying a short word and having it write out a much longer thing . so if somebody sends me a fan letter , i 'll say , " thanks for that . "
and conversely , if somebody sends me hate mail -- which happens daily -- i say , " piss off . "
so that 's my dirty little secret . don 't tell anyone .
so the point is , this a really interesting story .
this is version eight of this software , and do you know what they put in version eight ?
no new features . it 's never happened before in software !
the company put no new features . they just said , " we 'll make the software work right . " right .
because for years people had bought this software , tried it out -- 95 percent accuracy was all they got , which means one in 20 words is wrong -- and they put it in their drawer . and the company got sick of that , so they said , " this version , we 're not going to do anything but make sure it 's darned accurate . "
and so that 's what they did . this cult of doing things right is starting to spread .
my final advice for those of you who are consumers of this technology : remember , if it doesn 't work it 's not necessarily you , ok ?
it could be the design of the thing you 're using .
be aware in life of good design and bad design .
and if you 're among the people who create the stuff , easy is hard .
pre-sweat the details for your audience . count the taps .
remember , the hard part is not deciding what features to add -- it 's deciding what to leave out .
and best of all , your motivation is : simplicity sells .
ca : bravo . dp : thank you very much .
ca : hear , hear !
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / bill _ joy _ muses _ on _ what _ s _ next.html
technologist and futurist bill joy talks about several big worries for humanity -- and several big hopes in the fields of health , education and future tech .
business , future , health , science , technology
405
bill joy : what i 'm worried about , what i 'm excited about
what technology can we really apply to reducing global poverty ?
and what i found was quite surprising .
we started looking at things like death rates in the 20th century , and how they 'd been improved , and very simple things turned out .
you 'd think maybe antibiotics made more difference than clean water , but it 's actually the opposite .
and so very simple things -- off-the-shelf technologies that we could easily find on the then-early web -- would clearly make a huge difference to that problem .
but i also , in looking at more powerful technologies and nanotechnology and genetic engineering and other new emerging kind of digital technologies , became very concerned about the potential for abuse .
if you think about it , in history , a long , long time ago we dealt with the problem of an individual abusing another individual .
we came up with something -- the ten commandments : thou shalt not kill .
that 's a , kind of a one-on-one thing .
we organized into cities . we had many people .
and to keep the many from tyrannizing the one , we came up with concepts like individual liberty .
and then , to have to deal with large groups , say , at the nation-state level , and we had to have mutual non-aggression , or through a series of conflicts , we eventually came to a rough international bargain to largely keep the peace .
but now we have a new situation , really what people call an asymmetric situation , where technology is so powerful that it extends beyond a nation-state .
it 's not the nation-states that have potential access to mass destruction , but individuals .
and this is a consequence of the fact that these new technologies tend to be digital .
we saw genome sequences .
you can download the gene sequences of pathogens off the internet if you want to , and clearly someone recently -- i saw in a science magazine -- they said , well , the 1918 flu is too dangerous to fedex around .
if people want to use it in their labs for working on research , just reconstruct it yourself , because , you know , it might break in fedex .
so that this is possible to do this is not deniable .
so individuals in small groups super-empowered by access to these kinds of self-replicating technologies , whether it be biological or other , are clearly a danger in our world .
and the danger is that they can cause roughly what 's a pandemic .
and we really don 't have experience with pandemics ,
and we 're also not very good as a society at acting to things we don 't have direct and sort of gut-level experience with .
so it 's not in our nature to pre-act .
and in this case , piling on more technology doesn 't solve the problem , because it only super-empowers people more .
so the solution has to be , as people like russell and einstein and others imagine in a conversation that existed in a much stronger form , i think , early in the 20th century , that the solution had to be not just the head but the heart .
you know , public policy and moral progress .
the bargain that gives us civilization is a bargain to not use power .
we get our individual rights by society protecting us from others not doing everything they can do but largely doing only what is legal .
and so to limit the danger of these new things , we have to limit , ultimately , the ability of individuals to have access , essentially , to pandemic power .
we also have to have sensible defense , because no limitation is going to prevent a crazy person from doing something .
and you know , and the troubling thing is that it 's much easier to do something bad than to defend against all possible bad things , so the offensive uses really have an asymmetric advantage .
so these are the kind of thoughts i was thinking in 1999 and 2000 , and my friends told me i was getting really depressed , and they were really worried about me .
and then i signed a book contract to write more gloomy thoughts about this and moved into a hotel room in new york with one room full of books on the plague , and you know , nuclear bombs exploding in new york where i would be within the circle , and so on .
and then i was there on september 11th , and i stood in the streets with everyone .
and it was quite an experience to be there .
i got up the next morning and walked out of the city , and all the sanitation trucks were parked on houston street and ready to go down and start taking the rubble away .
and i walked down the middle , up to the train station , and everything below 14th street was closed .
it was quite a compelling experience , but not really , i suppose , a surprise to someone who 'd had his room full of the books .
it was always a surprise that it happened then and there , but it wasn 't a surprise that it happened at all .
and everyone then started writing about this .
thousands of people started writing about this .
and i eventually abandoned the book , and then chris called me to talk at the conference . i really don 't talk about this anymore because , you know , there 's enough frustrating and depressing things going on .
but i agreed to come and say a few things about this .
and i would say that we can 't give up the rule of law to fight an asymmetric threat , which is what we seem to be doing because of the present , the people that are in power , because that 's to give up the thing that makes civilization .
and we can 't fight the threat in the kind of stupid way we 're doing , because a million-dollar act causes a billion dollars of damage , causes a trillion dollar response which is largely ineffective and arguably , probably almost certainly , has made the problem worse .
so we can 't fight the thing with a million-to-one cost , one-to-a-million cost-benefit ratio .
so after giving up on the book -- and i had the great honor to be able to join kleiner perkins about a year ago ,
and to work through venture capital on the innovative side , and to try to find some innovations that could address what i saw as some of these big problems .
things where , you know , a factor of 10 difference can make a factor of 1,000 difference in the outcome .
i 've been amazed in the last year at the incredible quality and excitement of the innovations that have come across my desk .
it 's overwhelming at times . i 'm very thankful for google and wikipedia so i can understand at least a little of what people are talking about who come through the doors .
but i wanted to share with you three areas that i 'm particularly excited about and that relate to the problems that i was talking about in the wired article .
the first is this whole area of education , and it really relates to what nicholas was talking about with a $ 100 computer .
and that is to say that there 's a lot of legs left in moore 's law .
the most advanced transistors today are at 65 nanometers , and we 've seen , and i 've had the pleasure to invest in , companies that give me great confidence that we 'll extend moore 's law all the way down to roughly the 10 nanometer scale .
another factor of , say , six in dimensional reduction , which should give us about another factor of 100 in raw improvement in what the chips can do . and so , to put that in practical terms , if something costs about 1,000 dollars today , say , the best personal computer you can buy , that might be its cost , i think we can have that in 2020 for 10 dollars . okay ?
now , just imagine what that $ 100 computer will be in 2020 as a tool for education .
i think the challenge for us is -- i 'm very certain that that will happen , the challenge is , will we develop the kind of educational tools and things with the net to let us take advantage of that device ?
i 'd argue today that we have incredibly powerful computers , but we don 't have very good software for them .
and it 's only in retrospect , after the better software comes along , and you take it and you run it on a ten-year-old machine , you say , god , the machine was that fast ?
i remember when they took the apple mac interface and they put it back on the apple ii .
the apple ii was perfectly capable of running that kind of interface , we just didn 't know how to do it at the time .
so given that we know and should believe -- because moore 's law 's been , like , a constant , i mean , it 's just been very predictable progress over the last 40 years or whatever .
we can know what the computers are going to be like in 2020 .
it 's great that we have initiatives to say , let 's go create the education and educate people in the world , because that 's a great force for peace .
and we can give everyone in the world a $ 100 computer or a $ 10 computer in the next 15 years .
the second area that i 'm focusing on is the environmental problem , because that 's clearly going to put a lot of pressure on this world .
we 'll hear a lot more about that from al gore very shortly .
the thing that we see as the kind of moore 's law trend that 's driving improvement in our ability to address the environmental problem is new materials .
we have a challenge , because the urban population is growing in this century from two billion to six billion in a very short amount of time . people are moving to the cities .
they all need clean water , they need energy , they need transportation , and we want them to develop in a green way .
we 're reasonably efficient in the industrial sectors .
we 've made improvements in energy and resource efficiency , but the consumer sector , especially in america , is very inefficient .
but these new materials bring such incredible innovations that there 's a strong basis for hope that these things will be so profitable that they can be brought to the market .
and i want to give you a specific example of a new material that was discovered 15 years ago .
if we take carbon nanotubes , you know , iijima discovered them in 1991 , they just have incredible properties .
and these are the kinds of things we 're going to discover as we start to engineer at the nano scale .
their strength : they 're almost the strongest material , tensile strength material known .
they 're very , very stiff . they stretch very , very little .
in two dimensions , if you make , like , a fabric out of them , they 're 30 times stronger than kevlar .
and if you make a three-dimensional structure , like a buckyball , they have all sorts of incredible properties .
if you shoot a particle at them and knock a hole in them , they repair themselves ; they go zip and they repair the hole in femtoseconds , which is not -- is really quick .
if you shine a light on them , they produce electricity .
in fact , if you flash them with a camera they catch on fire .
if you put electricity on them , they emit light .
if you run current through them , you can run 1,000 times more current through one of these than through a piece of metal .
you can make both p- and n-type semiconductors , which means you can make transistors out of them .
they conduct heat along their length but not across -- well , there is no width , but not in the other direction if you stack them up ; that 's a property of carbon fiber also .
if you put particles in them , and they go shooting out the tip -- they 're like miniature linear accelerators or electron guns .
the inside of the nanotubes is so small -- the smallest ones are 0.7 nanometers -- that it 's basically a quantum world .
it 's a strange place inside a nanotube .
and so we begin to see , and we 've seen business plans already , where the kind of things lisa randall 's talking about are in there .
i had one business plan where i was trying to learn more about witten 's cosmic dimension strings to try to understand what the phenomenon was going on in this proposed nanomaterial .
so inside of a nanotube , we 're really at the limit here .
so what we see is with these and other new materials that we can do things with different properties -- lighter , stronger -- and apply these new materials to the environmental problems .
new materials that can make water , new materials that can make fuel cells work better , new materials that catalyze chemical reactions , that cut pollution and so on .
ethanol -- new ways of making ethanol .
new ways of making electric transportation .
the whole green dream -- because it can be profitable .
and we 've dedicated -- we 've just raised a new fund , we dedicated 100 million dollars to these kinds of investments .
we believe that genentech , the compaq , the lotus , the sun , the netscape , the amazon , the google in these fields are yet to be found , because this materials revolution will drive these things forward .
the third area that we 're working on , and we just announced last week -- we were all in new york .
we raised 200 million dollars in a specialty fund to work on a pandemic in biodefense .
and to give you an idea of the last fund that kleiner raised was a $ 400 million fund , so this for us is a very substantial fund .
and what we did , over the last few months -- well , a few months ago , ray kurzweil and i wrote an op-ed in the new york times about how publishing the 1918 genome was very dangerous .
and john doerr and brook and others got concerned , [ unclear ] , and we started looking around at what the world was doing about being prepared for a pandemic . and we saw a lot of gaps .
and so we asked ourselves , you know , can we find innovative things that will go fill these gaps ? and brooks told me in a break here , he said he 's found so much stuff he can 't sleep ,
because there 's so many great technologies out there , we 're essentially buried . and we need them , you know .
we have one antiviral that people are talking about stockpiling that still works , roughly . that 's tamiflu .
but tamiflu -- the virus is resistant . it is resistant to tamiflu .
we 've discovered with aids we need cocktails to work well so that the viral resistance -- we need several anti-virals .
we need better surveillance .
we need networks that can find out what 's going on .
we need rapid diagnostics so that we can tell if somebody has a strain of flu which we have only identified very recently .
we 've got to be able to make the rapid diagnostics quickly .
we need new anti-virals and cocktails . we need new kinds of vaccines .
vaccines that are broad spectrum .
vaccines that we can manufacture quickly .
cocktails , more polyvalent vaccines .
you normally get a trivalent vaccine against three possible strains .
we need -- we don 't know where this thing is going .
we believe that if we could fill these 10 gaps , we have a chance to help really reduce the risk of a pandemic .
and the difference between a normal flu season and a pandemic is about a factor of 1,000 in deaths and certainly enormous economic impact .
so we 're very excited because we think we can fund 10 , or speed up 10 projects and see them come to market in the next couple years that will address this .
so if we can address , use technology , help address education , help address the environment , help address the pandemic , does that solve the larger problem that i was talking about in the wired article ? and i 'm afraid the answer is really no ,
because you can 't solve a problem with the management of technology with more technology .
if we let an unlimited amount of power loose , then we will -- a very small number of people will be able to abuse it .
we can 't fight at a million-to-one disadvantage .
so what we need to do is , we need better policy .
and for example , some things we could do that would be policy solutions which are not really in the political air right now but perhaps with the change of administration would be -- use markets .
markets are a very strong force .
for example , rather than trying to regulate away problems , which probably won 't work , if we could price into the cost of doing business , the cost of catastrophe , so that people who are doing things that had a higher cost of catastrophe would have to take insurance against that risk .
so if you wanted to put a drug on the market you could put it on .
but it wouldn 't have to be approved by regulators ; you 'd have to convince an actuary that it would be safe .
and if you apply the notion of insurance more broadly , you can use a more powerful force , a market force , to provide feedback .
how could you keep the law ?
i think the law would be a really good thing to keep .
well , you have to hold people accountable .
the law requires accountability .
today scientists , technologists , businessmen , engineers don 't have any personal responsibility for the consequences of their actions .
so if you tie that -- you have to tie that back with the law .
and finally , i think we have to do something that 's not really -- it 's almost unacceptable to say this -- which , we have to begin to design the future .
we can 't pick the future , but we can steer the future .
our investment in trying to prevent pandemic flu is affecting the distribution of possible outcomes .
we may not be able to stop it , but the likelihood that it will get past us is lower if we focus on that problem .
so we can design the future if we choose what kind of things we want to have happen and not have happen , and steer us to a lower-risk place .
vice president gore will talk about how we could steer the climate trajectory into a lower probability of catastrophic risk .
but above all , what we have to do is we have to help the good guys , the people on the defensive side , have an advantage over the people who want to abuse things .
and what we have to do to do that is we have to limit access to certain information .
and growing up as we have , and holding very high the value of free speech , this is a hard thing for us to accept -- for all of us to accept .
it 's especially hard for the scientists to accept who still remember , you know , galileo essentially locked up , and who are still fighting this battle against the church .
but that 's the price of having a civilization .
the price of retaining the rule of law is to limit the access to the great and kind of unbridled power .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / penelope _ boston.html
so the mars rovers didn 't scoop up any alien lifeforms . scientist penelope boston thinks there 's a good chance -- a 25 to 50 percent chance , in fact -- that life might exist on mars , deep inside the planet 's caves . she details how we should look and why .
exploration , geology , life , science , technology , universe
421
penelope boston says there might be life on mars
the career that i started early on in my life was looking for exotic life forms in exotic places , and at that time i was working in the antarctic and the arctic , and high deserts and low deserts .
until about a dozen years ago , when i was really captured by caves , and i really re-focused most of my research in that direction .
so i have a really cool day job-- i get to do some really amazing stuff .
i work in some of the most extreme cave environments on the planet .
many of them are trying to kill us from the minute we go into them , but nevertheless , they 're absolutely gripping , and contain unbelievable biological wonders that are very , very different from those that we have on the planet .
apart from the intrinsic value of the biology and mineralogy and geo-microbiology that we do there , we 're also using these as templates for figuring out how to go look for life on other planets .
particularly mars , but also europa , the small , icy moon around jupiter .
and perhaps , someday , far beyond our solar system itself .
i 'm very passionately interested in the human future , on the moon and mars particularly , and elsewhere in the solar system .
i think it 's time that we transitioned to a solar system-going civilization and species .
and , as an outgrowth of all of this then , i wonder about whether we can , and whether we even should , think about transporting earth-type life to other planets .
notably mars , as a first example .
something i never talk about in scientific meetings is how i actually got to this state and why i do the work that i do .
why don 't i have a normal job , a sensible job ?
and then of course , i blame the soviet union .
because in the mid-1950s , when i was a tiny child , they had the audacity to launch a very primitive little satellite called sputnik , which sent the western world into a hysterical tailspin .
and a tremendous amount of money went into the funding of science and mathematics skills for kids .
and i 'm a product of that generation , like so many other of my peers .
it really caught hold of us , and caught fire , and it would be lovely if we could reproduce that again now .
of course , refusing to grow up -- -- even though i impersonate a grown-up in daily life , but i do a fairly good job of that -- but really retaining that childlike quality of not caring what other people think about what you 're interested in , is really critical .
the next element is the fact that i have applied a value judgment and my value judgment is that the presence of life is better than no life .
and so , life is more valuable than no life .
and so i think that that holds together a great deal of the work that people in this audience approach .
i 'm very interested in mars , of course , and that was a product of my being a young undergraduate when the viking landers landed on mars .
and that took what had been a tiny little astronomical object in the sky , that you would see as a dot , and turned it completely into a landscape , as that very first primitive picture came rastering across the screen .
and when it became a landscape , it also became a destination , and altered , really , the course of my life .
in my graduate years i worked with my colleague and mentor and friend , steve schneider , at the national center for atmospheric research , working on global change issues .
we 've written a number of things on the role of gaia hypothesis -- whether or not you could consider earth as a single entity in any meaningful scientific sense , and then , as an outgrowth of that , i worked on the environmental consequences of nuclear war .
so , wonderful things and grim things .
but what it taught me was to look at earth as a planet with external eyes , not just as our home .
and that is a wonderful stepping away in perspective , to try to then think about the way our planet behaves , as a planet , and with the life that 's on it .
and all of this seems to me to be a salient point in history .
we 're getting ready to begin to go through the process of leaving our planet of origin and out into the wider solar system and beyond .
so , back to mars .
how hard is it going to be to find life on mars ?
well , sometimes it 's really very hard for us to find each other , even on this planet .
so , finding life on another planet is a non-trivial occupation and we spend a lot of time trying to think about that .
whether or not you think it 's likely to be successful sort of depends on what you think about the chances of life in the universe .
i think , myself , that life is a natural outgrowth of the increasing complexification of matter over time .
so , you start with the big bang and you get hydrogen , and then you get helium , and then you get more complicated stuff , and you get planets forming -- and life is a common , planetary-based phenomenon , in my view .
certainly , in the last 15 years , we 've seen increasing numbers of planets outside of our solar system being confirmed ,
and just last month , a couple of weeks ago , a planet in the size-class of earth has actually been found .
and so this is very exciting news .
so , my first bold prediction is that , is that in the universe , life is going to be everywhere .
it 's going to be everywhere we look -- where there are planetary systems that can possibly support it .
and those planetary systems are going to be very common .
so , what about life on mars ?
well , if somebody had asked me about a dozen years ago what i thought the chances of life on mars would be , i would 've probably said , a couple of percent .
and even that was considered outrageous at the time .
i was once sneeringly introduced by a former nasa official , as the only person on the planet who still thought there was life on mars .
of course , that official is now dead , and i 'm not , so there 's a certain amount of glory in outliving your adversaries .
but things have changed greatly over the last dozen years .
and the reason that they have changed is because we now have new information .
the amazing pathfinder mission that went in ' 97 , and the mer rover missions that are on mars as we speak now and the european space agency 's mars express , has taught us a number of amazing things .
there is sub-surface ice on that planet .
and so where there is water , there is a very high chance of our kind of life .
there 's clearly sedimentary rocks all over the place - one of the landers is sitting in the middle of an ancient seabed , and there are these amazing structures called blueberries , which are these little , rocky concretions that we are busy making biologically in my lab right now .
so , with all of these things put together , i think that the chances of life are much greater than i would 've ever thought .
i think that the chance of life having arisen on mars , sometime in its past , is maybe one in four to maybe even half and half .
so this is a very bold statement .
i think it 's there , and i think we need to go look for it , and i think it 's underground .
so the game 's afoot , and this is the game that we play in astro-biology .
how do you try to get a handle on extraterrestrial life ?
how do you plan to look for it ?
how do you know it when you find it ?
because if it 's big and obvious , we would 've already found it -- it would 've already bitten us on the foot , and it hasn 't .
so , we know that it 's probably quite cryptic .
very critically , how do we protect it , if we find it , and not contaminate it ?
and also , even perhaps more critically , because this is the only home planet we have , how do we protect us from it , while we study it ?
so why might it be hard to find ?
well , it 's probably microscopic , and it 's never easy to study microscopic things , although the amazing tools that we now have to do that allow us to study things in much greater depth , at much smaller scales than ever before .
but it 's probably hiding , because if you are out sequestering resources from your environment , that makes you yummy , and other things might want to eat you , or consume you .
and so , there 's a game of predator-prey that 's going to be , essentially , universal , really , in any kind of biological system .
it also may be very , very different in its fundamental properties - its chemistry , or its size .
we say small , but what does that mean ?
is it virus-sized ? is it smaller than that ?
is it bigger than the biggest bacterium ? we don 't know .
and speed of activity , which is something that we face in our work with sub-surface organisms , because they grow very , very slowly .
if i were to take a swab off your teeth and plate it on a petri plate , within about four or five hours , i would have to see growth .
but the organisms that we work with , from the sub-surface of earth , very often it 's months -- and in many cases , years -- before we see any growth whatsoever .
so they are , intrinsically , a slower life-form .
but the real issue is that we are guided by our limited experience , and until we can think out of the box of our cranium and what we know , then we can 't recognize what to look for , or how to plan for it .
so , perspective is everything and , because of the history that i 've just briefly talked to you about , i have learned to think about earth as an extraterrestrial planet .
and this has been invaluable in our approach to try to study these things .
this is my favorite game on airplanes : where you 're in an airplane and you look out the window , you see the horizon .
i always turn my head on the side , and that simple change makes me go from seeing this planet as home , to seeing it as a planet .
it 's a very simple trick , and i never fail to do it when i 'm sitting in a window seat .
well , this is what we apply to our work .
this shows one of the most extreme caves that we work in .
this is cueva de villa luz in tabasco , in mexico , and this cave is saturated with sulfuric acid .
there is tremendous amounts of hydrogen sulfide coming into this cave from volcanic sources and from the breakdown of evaporite -- minerals below the carbonates in which this cave is formed -- and it is a completely hostile environment for us .
we have to go in with protective suits and breathing gear , and 30 parts per million of h2s will kill you .
this is regularly several hundred parts per million .
so , it 's a very hazardous environment , with co as well , and many other gases .
these extreme physical and chemical parameters make the biology that grows in these places very special .
because contrary to what you might think , this is not devoid of life .
this is one of the richest caves that we have found on the planet , anywhere .
it 's bursting with life .
the extremes on earth are interesting in their own right , but one of the reasons that we 're interested in them is because they represent , really , the average conditions that we may expect on other planets .
so , this is part of the ability that we have , to try to stretch our imagination , in terms of what we may find in the future .
there 's so much life in this cave , and i can 't even begin to scratch the surface of it with you .
but one of the most famous objects out of this are what we call snottites , for obvious reasons .
this stuff looks like what comes out of your two-year-old 's nose when he has a cold .
and this is produced by bacteria who are actually making more sulfuric acid , and living at phs right around zero .
and so , this stuff is like battery acid .
and yet , everything in this cave has adapted to it .
in fact , there 's so much energy available for biology in this cave , that there 's actually a huge number of cavefish .
and the local zoque indians harvest this twice a year , as part of their easter week celebration and holy week celebration .
this is very unusual for caves .
in some of the other amazing caves that we work in -- this is in lechuguilla cave in new mexico near carlsbad , and this is one of the most famous caves in the world .
it 's 115 miles of mapped passage , it 's pristine , it has no natural opening and it 's a gigantic biological , geo-microbiological laboratory .
in this cave , great areas are covered by this reddish material that you see here , and also these enormous crystals of selenite that you can see dangling down .
this stuff is produced biologically .
this is the breakdown product of the bedrock , that organisms are busy munching their way through .
they take iron and manganese minerals within the bedrock and they oxidize them .
and every time they do that , they get a tiny little packet of energy .
and that tiny little packet of energy is what they use , then , to run their life processes .
interestingly enough , they also do this with uranium and chromium , and various other toxic metals .
and so , the obvious avenue for bio-remediation comes from organisms like this .
these organisms we now bring into the lab , and you can see some of them growing on petri plates , and get them to reproduce the precise biominerals that we find on the walls of these caves .
so , these are signals that they leave in the rock record .
well , even in basalt surfaces in lava-tube caves , which are a by-product of volcanic activity , we find these walls totally covered , in many cases , by these beautiful , glistening silver walls , or shiny pink or shiny red or shiny gold .
and these are mineral deposits that are also made by bacteria .
and you can see in these central images here , scanning electron micrographs of some of these guys -- these are gardens of these bacteria .
one of the interesting things about these particular guys is that they 're in the actinomycete and streptomycete groups of the bacteria , which is where we get most of our antibiotics .
the sub-surface of earth contains a vast biodiversity .
and these organisms , because they 're very separate from the surface , make a vast array of novel compounds .
and so , the potential for exploiting this for pharmaceutical and industrial chemical uses is completely untapped , but probably exceeds most of the rest of the biodiversity of the planet .
so , lava-tube caves-- i 've just told you about organisms that live here on this planet .
we know that on mars and the moon there are tons of these structures .
we can see them .
on the left you can see a lava tube forming at a recent eruption -- mount etna in sicily -- and this is the way these tubes form .
and when they hollow out , then they become habitats for organisms .
these are all over the planet mars , and we 're busy cataloguing them now .
and so , there 's very interesting cave real estate on mars , at least of that type .
in order to access these sub-surface environments that we 're interested in , we 're very interested in developing the tools to do this .
you know , it 's not easy to get into these caves . it requires crawling , climbing , rope-work , technical rope-work and many other complex human motions in order to access these .
we face the problem of , how can we do this robotically ?
why would we want to do it robotically ?
well , we 're going to be sending robotic missions to mars long in advance of human missions .
and then , secondly , getting back to that earlier point that i made about the preciousness of any life that we may find on mars , we don 't want to contaminate it .
and one of the best ways to study something without contaminating it is to have an intermediary .
and in this case , we 're imagining intermediary robotic devices that can actually do some of that front-end work for us , to protect any potential life that we find .
i 'm not going to go through all of these projects now , but we 're involved in about half-a-dozen robotic development projects , in collaboration with a number of different groups .
i want to talk specifically about the array that you see on the top .
these are hopping microbot swarms .
i 'm working on this with the field and space robotics laboratory and my friend steve dubowsky at mit , and we have come up with the idea of having little , jumping bean-like robots that are propelled by artificial muscle , which is one of the dubowsky lab 's specialties -- are the epams , or artificial muscles .
and these allow them to hop .
they behave with a swarm behavior , where they relate to each other , modeled after insect swarm behavior , and they could be made very numerous .
and so , one can send a thousand of them , as you can see in this upper left-hand picture , a thousand of them could fit into the payload bay that was used for one of the current mer rovers .
and these little guys -- you could lose many of them .
if you send a thousand of them , you could probably get rid of 90 percent of them and still have a mission .
and so , that allows you the flexibility to go into very challenging terrain and actually make your way where you want to go .
now , to wrap this up , i want to talk for two seconds about caves and the human expansion beyond earth as a natural outgrowth of the work that we do in caves .
it occurred to us a number of years ago that caves have many properties that people have used and other organisms have used as habitat in the past .
and perhaps it 's time we started to explore those , in the context of future mars and the moon exploration .
so , we have just finished a nasa institute for advanced concepts phase ii study , looking at the irreducible set of technologies that you would need in order to actually allow people to inhabit lava tubes on the moon or mars .
it turns out to be a fairly simple and small list , and we have gone in the relatively primitive technology direction .
so , we 're talking about things like inflatable liners that can conform to the complex topological shape on the inside of a cave , foamed-in-place airlocks to deal with this complex topology , various ways of getting breathing gases made from the intrinsic materials of these bodies .
and the future is there for us to use these lava-tube caves on mars .
and right now we 're in caves , and we 're doing science and recreation , but i think in the future we 'll be using them for habitat and science on these other bodies .
now , my view of what the current status of potential life on mars is that it 's probably been on the planet , maybe one in two chances .
the question as to whether there is life on mars that is related to life on earth has now been very muddied , because we now know , from mars meteorites that have made it to earth , that there 's material that can be exchanged between those two planets .
one of the burning questions , of course , is if we go there and find life in the sub-surface , as i fully expect that we will , is that a second genesis of life ?
did life start here and was it transported there ?
did it start there and get transported here ?
this will be a fascinating puzzle as we go into the next half-century , and where i expect that we will have more and more mars missions to answer these questions .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / derek _ sivers _ keep _ your _ goals _ to _ yourself.html
after hitting on a brilliant new life plan , our first instinct is to tell someone , but derek sivers says it 's better to keep goals secret . he presents research stretching as far back as the 1920s to show why people who talk about their ambitions may be less likely to achieve them .
personal growth , self , storytelling , success
947
derek sivers : keep your goals to yourself
everyone , please think of your biggest personal goal .
for real -- you can take a second . you 've got to feel this to learn it .
take a few seconds and think of your personal biggest goal , okay ?
imagine deciding right now that you 're going to do it .
imagine telling someone that you meet today what you 're going to do .
imagine their congratulations and their high image of you .
doesn 't it feel good to say it out loud ?
don 't you feel one step closer already , like it 's already becoming part of your identity ?
well , bad news : you should have kept your mouth shut , because that good feeling now will make you less likely to do it .
repeated psychology tests have proven that telling someone your goal makes it less likely to happen .
any time you have a goal , there are some steps that need to be done , some work that needs to be done in order to achieve it .
ideally , you would not be satisfied until you had actually done the work . but when you tell someone your goal and they acknowledge it , psychologists have found that it 's called a " social reality . "
the mind is kind of tricked into feeling that it 's already done .
and then , because you felt that satisfaction , you 're less motivated to do the actual hard work necessary .
so this goes against the conventional wisdom that we should tell our friends our goals , right -- so they hold us to it .
so , let 's look at the proof .
1926 , kurt lewin , founder of social psychology , called this " substitution . "
1933 , vera mahler found , when it was acknowledged by others , it felt real in the mind .
1982 , peter gollwitzer wrote a whole book about this and in 2009 , he did some new tests that were published .
it goes like this : 163 people across four separate tests -- everyone wrote down their personal goal . then half of them announced their commitment to this goal to the room , and half didn 't .
then everyone was given 45 minutes of work that would directly lead them towards their goal , but they were told that they could stop at any time .
now , those who kept their mouths shut worked the entire 45 minutes , on average ,
and when asked afterwards , said that they felt that they had a long way to go still to achieve their goal .
but those who had announced it quit after only 33 minutes , on average ,
and when asked afterwards , said that they felt much closer to achieving their goal .
so , if this is true , what can we do ?
well , you could resist the temptation to announce your goal .
you can delay the gratification that the social acknowledgement brings ,
and you can understand that your mind mistakes the talking for the doing .
but if you do need to talk about something , you can state it in a way that gives you no satisfaction , such as , " i really want to run this marathon , so i need to train five times a week and kick my ass if i don 't , okay ? "
so audience , next time you 're tempted to tell someone your goal , what will you say ?
exactly , well done .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / benjamin _ wallace _ on _ the _ price _ of _ happiness.html
can happiness be bought ? to find out , author benjamin wallace sampled the world 's most expensive products , including a bottle of 1947 chateau cheval blanc , 8 ounces of kobe beef and the fabled kopi luwak coffee . his critique may surprise you .
book , business , culture , entertainment , food , happiness , writing
419
benjamin wallace on the price of happiness
i 'm just going to play a brief video clip .
video :
on the fifth of december 1985 , a bottle of 1787 lafitte was sold for 105,000 pounds -- nine times the previous world record .
the buyer was kip forbes , son of one of the most flamboyant millionaires of the 20th century .
the original owner of the bottle turned out to be one of the most enthusiastic wine buffs of the 18th century .
chateau lafitte is one of the greatest wines in the world , the prince of any wine cellar . benjamin wallace : now , that 's about all the videotape that remains of an event that set off the longest-running mystery in the modern wine world .
and the mystery existed because of a gentleman named hardy rodenstock .
in 1985 , he announced to his friends in the wine world that he had made this incredible discovery .
some workmen in paris had broken through a brick wall , and happened upon this hidden cache of wines -- apparently the property of thomas jefferson . 1787 , 1784 .
he wouldn 't reveal the exact number of bottles , he would not reveal exactly where the building was and he would not reveal exactly who owned the building .
the mystery persisted for about 20 years .
it finally began to get resolved in 2005 because of this guy .
bill koch is a florida billionaire who owns four of the jefferson bottles , and he became suspicious .
and he ended up spending over a million dollars and hiring ex-fbi and ex-scotland yard agents to try to get to the bottom of this .
there 's now ample evidence that hardy rodenstock is a con man , and that the jefferson bottles were fakes .
but for those 20 years , an unbelievable number of really eminent and accomplished figures in the wine world were sort of drawn into the orbit of these bottles .
i think they wanted to believe that the most expensive bottle of wine in the world must be the best bottle of wine in the world , must be the rarest bottle of wine in the world .
i became increasingly , kind of voyeuristically interested in the question of
you know , why do people spend these crazy amounts of money , not only on wine but on lots of things , and are they living a better life than me ?
so , i decided to embark on a quest .
with the generous backing of a magazine i write for sometimes , i decided to sample the very best , or most expensive , or most coveted item in about a dozen categories , which was a very grueling quest , as you can imagine .
this was the first one .
a lot of the kobe beef that you see in the u.s. is not the real thing .
it may come from wagyu cattle , but it 's not from the original , appalachian hyogo prefecture in japan .
there are very few places in the u.s. where you can try real kobe , and one of them is wolfgang puck 's restaurant , cut , in los angeles .
i went there , and i ordered the eight-ounce rib eye for 160 dollars .
and it arrived , and it was tiny .
and i was outraged .
it was like , 160 dollars for this ?
and then i took a bite , and i wished that it was tinier , because kobe beef is so rich .
it 's like foie gras -- it 's not even like steak .
i almost couldn 't finish it .
i was really happy when i was done .
now , the photographer who took the pictures for this project for some reason posed his dog in a lot of them , so that 's why you 're going to see this recurring character . which , i guess , you know , communicates to you that i did not think that one was really worth the price .
white truffles .
one of the most expensive luxury foods by weight in the world .
to try this , i went to a mario batali restaurant in manhattan -- del posto .
the waiter , you know , came out with the white truffle knob and his shaver , and he shaved it onto my pasta and he said , you know , " would signore like the truffles ? "
and the charm of white truffles is in their aroma .
it 's not in their taste , really . it 's not in their texture .
it 's in the smell .
these white pearlescent flakes hit the noodles , this haunting , wonderful , nutty , mushroomy smell wafted up .
10 seconds passed and it was gone .
and then i was left with these little ugly flakes on my pasta that , you know , their purpose had been served ,
and so i 'm afraid to say that this was also a disappointment to me .
there were several -- several of these items were disappointments .
yeah .
the magazine wouldn 't pay for me to go there .
they did give me a tour , though .
and this hotel suite is 4,300 square feet .
it has 360-degree views .
it has four balconies .
it was designed by the architect i.m. pei .
it comes with its own rolls royce and driver .
it comes with its own wine cellar that you can draw freely from .
when i took the tour , it actually included some opus one , i was glad to see .
30,000 dollars for a night in a hotel .
this is soap that 's made from silver nanoparticles , which have antibacterial properties .
i washed my face with this this morning in preparation for this .
and it , you know , tickled a little bit and it smelled good , but i have to say that nobody here has complimented me on the cleanliness of my face today .
but then again , nobody has complimented me on the jeans i 'm wearing .
these ones gq did spring for -- i own these -- but i will tell you , not only did i not get a compliment from any of you , i have not gotten a compliment from anybody in the months that i have owned and worn these .
i don 't think that whether or not you 're getting a compliment should be the test of something 's value , but i think in the case of a fashion item , an article of clothing , that 's a reasonable benchmark .
that said , a lot of work goes into these .
they are made from handpicked organic zimbabwean cotton that has been shuttle loomed and then hand-dipped in natural indigo 24 times .
but no compliments .
thank you .
armando manni is a former filmmaker who makes this olive oil from an olive that grows on a single slope in tuscany .
and he goes to great lengths to protect the olive oil from oxygen and light .
he uses tiny bottles , the glass is tinted , he tops the olive oil off with an inert gas .
and he actually -- once he releases a batch of it , he regularly conducts molecular analyses and posts the results online , so you can go online and look at your batch number and see how the phenolics are developing , and , you know , gauge its freshness .
i did a blind taste test of this with 20 people and five other olive oils .
it tasted fine . it tasted interesting .
it was very green , it was very peppery .
but in the blind taste test , it came in last .
the olive oil that came in first was actually a bottle of whole foods 365 olive oil which had been oxidizing next to my stove for six months .
a recurring theme is that a lot of these things are from japan -- you 'll start to notice .
i don 't play golf , so i couldn 't actually road test these , but i did interview a guy who owns them .
even the people who market these clubs -- i mean , they 'll say these have four axis shafts which minimize loss of club speed and thereby drive the ball farther -- but they 'll say , look , you know , you 're not getting 57,000 dollars worth of performance from these clubs .
you 're paying for the bling , that they 're encrusted with gold and platinum .
the guy who i interviewed who owns them did say that he 's gotten a lot of pleasure out of them , so ...
oh , yeah , you know this one ?
this is a coffee made from a very unusual process .
the luwak is an asian palm civet .
it 's a cat that lives in trees , and at night it comes down and it prowls the coffee plantations .
and apparently it 's a very picky eater and it , you know , hones in on only the ripest coffee cherries .
and then an enzyme in its digestive tract leeches into the beans , and people with the unenviable job of collecting these cats ' leavings then go through the forest collecting the , you know , results and processing it into coffee -- although you actually can buy it in the unprocessed form .
that 's right .
unrelatedly --
japan is doing crazy things with toilets .
there is now a toilet that has an mp3 player in it .
there 's one with a fragrance dispenser .
there 's one that actually analyzes the contents of the bowl and transmits the results via email to your doctor .
it 's almost like a home medical center -- and that is the direction that japanese toilet technology is heading in .
this one does not have those bells and whistles , but for pure functionality it 's pretty much the best -- the neorest 600 .
and to try this -- i couldn 't get a loaner , but i did go into the manhattan showroom of the manufacturer , toto , and they have a bathroom off of the showroom that you can use , which i used .
it 's fully automated -- you walk towards it , and the seat lifts .
the seat is preheated .
there 's a water jet that cleans you .
there 's an air jet that dries you .
you get up , it flushes by itself .
the lid closes , it self-cleans .
not only is it a technological leap forward , but i really do believe it 's a bit of a cultural leap forward .
i mean , a no hands , no toilet paper toilet .
and i want to get one of these .
this was another one i could not get a loaner of .
tom cruise supposedly owns this bed .
there 's a little plaque on the end that , you know , each buyer gets their name engraved on it .
to try this one , the maker of it let me and my wife spend the night in the manhattan showroom .
lights glaring in off the street , and we had to hire a security guard and all these things .
but anyway , we had a great night 's sleep .
and you spend a third of your life in bed .
i don 't think it 's that bad of a deal .
this was a fun one .
this is the fastest street-legal car in the world and the most expensive production car .
i got to drive this with a chaperone from the company , a professional race car driver , and we drove around the canyons outside of los angeles and down on the pacific coast highway .
and , you know , when we pulled up to a stoplight the people in the adjacent cars kind of gave us respectful nods .
and it was really amazing .
it was such a smooth ride .
most of the cars that i drive , if i get up to 80 they start to rattle .
i switched lanes on the highway and the driver , this chaperone , said , " you know , you were just going 110 miles an hour . "
and i had no idea that i was one of those obnoxious people you occasionally see weaving in and out of traffic , because it was just that smooth .
and if i was a billionaire , i would get one .
this is a completely gratuitous video i 'm just going to show of one of the pitfalls of advanced technology .
this is tom cruise arriving at the " mission : impossible iii " premiere .
when he tries to open the door , you could call it " mission : impossible iv . "
there was one object that i could not get my hands on , and that was the 1947 cheval blanc .
the ' 47 cheval blanc is probably the most mythologized wine of the 20th century .
and cheval blanc is kind of an unusual wine for bordeaux in having a significant percentage of the cabernet franc grape .
and 1947 was a legendary vintage , especially in the right bank of bordeaux .
and just together , that vintage and that chateau took on this aura that eventually kind of gave it this cultish following .
but it 's 60 years old .
there 's not much of it left .
what there is of it left you don 't know if it 's real -- it 's considered to be the most faked wine in the world .
not that many people are looking to pop open their one remaining bottle for a journalist .
so , i 'd about given up trying to get my hands on one of these .
i 'd put out feelers to retailers , to auctioneers , and it was coming up empty .
and then i got an email from a guy named bipin desai .
bipin desai is a u.c. riverside theoretical physicist who also happens to be the preeminent organizer of rare wine tastings ,
and he said , " i 've got a tasting coming up where we 're going to serve the ' 47 cheval blanc . "
and it was going to be a double vertical -- it was going to be 30 vintages of cheval blanc , and 30 vintages of yquem .
and it was an invitation you do not refuse .
i went .
it was three days , four meals .
and at lunch on saturday , we opened the ' 47 .
and you know , it had this fragrant softness , and it smelled a little bit of linseed oil .
and then i tasted it , and it , you know , had this kind of unctuous , porty richness , which is characteristic of that wine -- that it sort of resembles port in a lot of ways .
there were people at my table who thought it was , you know , fantastic .
there were some people who were a little less impressed .
and i wasn 't that impressed .
and i don 't -- call my palate a philistine palate -- so it doesn 't necessarily mean something that i wasn 't impressed , but i was not the only one there who had that reaction .
and it wasn 't just to that wine .
any one of the wines served at this tasting , if i 'd been served it at a dinner party , it would have been , you know , the wine experience of my lifetime , and incredibly memorable .
but drinking 60 great wines over three days , they all just blurred together , and it became almost a grueling experience .
and i just wanted to finish by mentioning a very interesting study which came out earlier this year from some researchers at stanford and caltech .
and they gave subjects the same wine , labeled with different price tags .
a lot of people , you know , said that they liked the more expensive wine more --
it was the same wine , but they thought it was a different one that was more expensive .
but what was unexpected was that these researchers did mri brain imaging while the people were drinking the wine , and not only did they say they enjoyed the more expensively labeled wine more -- their brain actually registered as experiencing more pleasure from the same wine when it was labeled with a higher price tag .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / tom _ chatfield _ 7 _ ways _ games _ reward _ the _ brain.html
we 're bringing gameplay into more aspects of our lives , spending countless hours -- and real money -- exploring virtual worlds for imaginary treasures . why ? as tom chatfield shows , games are perfectly tuned to dole out rewards that engage the brain and keep us questing for more .
culture , education , entertainment , gaming , technology
996
tom chatfield : 7 ways games reward the brain
i love video games .
i 'm also slightly in awe of them .
i 'm in awe of their power in terms of imagination , in terms of technology , in terms of concept .
but i think , above all , i 'm in awe at their power to motivate , to compel us , to transfix us , like really nothing else we 've ever invented has quite done before .
and i think that we can learn some pretty amazing things by looking at how we do this .
and in particular , i think we can learn things about learning .
now the video games industry is far and away the fastest growing of all modern media .
from about 10 billion in 1990 , it 's worth 50 billion dollars globally today , and it shows no sign of slowing down .
in four years ' time , it 's estimated it 'll be worth over 80 billion dollars .
that 's about three times the recorded music industry .
this is pretty stunning , but i don 't think it 's the most telling statistic of all .
the thing that really amazes me is that , today , people spend about eight billion real dollars a year buying virtual items that only exist inside video games .
this is a screenshot from the virtual game world , entropia universe .
earlier this year , a virtual asteroid in it sold for 330,000 real dollars .
and this is a titan class ship in the space game , eve online .
and this virtual object takes 200 real people about 56 days of real time to build , plus countless thousands of hours of effort before that .
and yet , many of these get built .
at the other end of the scale , the game farmville that you may well have heard of , has 70 million players around the world and most of these players are playing it almost every day .
this may all sound really quite alarming to some people , an index of something worrying or wrong in society .
but we 're here for the good news , and the good news is that i think we can explore why this very real human effort , this very intense generation of value , is occurring .
and by answering that question , i think we can take something extremely powerful away .
and i think the most interesting way to think about how all this is going on is in terms of rewards .
and specifically , it 's in terms of the very intense emotional rewards that playing games offers to people both individually and collectively .
now if we look at what 's going on in someone 's head when they are being engaged , two quite different processes are occurring .
on the one hand , there 's the wanting processes .
this is a bit like ambition and drive -- i 'm going to do that . i 'm going to work hard .
on the other hand , there 's the liking processes , fun and affection and delight and an enormous flying beast with an orc on the back .
it 's a really great image . it 's pretty cool .
it 's from the game world of warcraft with more than 10 million players globally , one of whom is me , another of whom is my wife .
and this kind of a world , this vast flying beast you can ride around , shows why games are so very good at doing both the wanting and the liking .
because it 's very powerful . it 's pretty awesome .
it gives you great powers .
your ambition is satisfied , but it 's very beautiful .
it 's a very great pleasure to fly around .
and so these combine to form a very intense emotional engagement .
but this isn 't the really interesting stuff .
the really interesting stuff about virtuality is what you can measure with it .
because what you can measure in virtuality is everything .
every single thing that every single person who 's ever played in a game has ever done can be measured .
the biggest games in the world today are measuring more than one billion points of data about their players , about what everybody does -- far more detail than you 'd ever get from any website .
and this allows something very special to happen in games .
it 's something called the reward schedule .
and by this , i mean looking at what millions upon millions of people have done and carefully calibrating the rate , the nature , the type , the intensity of rewards in games to keep them engaged over staggering amounts of time and effort .
now , to try and explain this in sort of real terms , i want to talk about a kind of task that might fall to you in so many games .
go and get a certain amount of a certain little game-y item .
let 's say , for the sake of argument , my mission is to get 15 pies and i can get 15 pies by killing these cute , little monsters .
simple game quest .
now you can think about this , if you like , as a problem about boxes .
i 've got to keep opening boxes . i don 't know what 's inside them until i open them .
and i go around opening box after box until i 've got 15 pies .
now , if you take a game like warcraft , you can think about it , if you like , as a great box-opening effort .
the game 's just trying to get people to open about a million boxes , getting better and better stuff in them .
this sounds immensely boring but games are able to make this process incredibly compelling .
and the way they do this is through a combination of probability and data .
let 's think about probability .
if we want to engage someone in the process of opening boxes to try and find pies , we want to make sure it 's neither too easy , nor too difficult , to find a pie .
so what do you do ? well , you look at a million people -- no , 100 million people , 100 million box openers -- and you work out , if you make the pie rate about 25 percent -- that 's neither too frustrating , nor too easy . it keeps people engaged . but of course , that 's not all you do -- there 's 15 pies .
now , i could make a game called piecraft , where all you had to do was get a million pies or a thousand pies .
that would be very boring .
fifteen is a pretty optimal number .
you find that -- you know , between five and 20 is about the right number for keeping people going .
but we don 't just have pies in the boxes .
there 's 100 percent up here .
and what we do is make sure that every time a box is opened , there 's something in it , some little reward that keeps people progressing and engaged .
in most adventure games , it 's a little bit in-game currency , a little bit experience . but we don 't just do that either .
we also say there 's going to be loads of other items of varying qualities and levels of excitement .
there 's going to be a 10 percent chance you get a pretty good item .
there 's going to be a 0.1 percent chance you get an absolutely awesome item .
and each of these rewards is carefully calibrated to the item .
and also , we say , " well , how many monsters ? should i have the entire world full of a billion monsters ? "
no , we want one or two monsters on the screen at any one time .
so i 'm drawn on . it 's not too easy , not too difficult .
so all this is very powerful .
but we 're in virtuality . these aren 't real boxes .
so we can do some rather amazing things .
we notice , looking at all these people opening boxes , that when people get to about 13 out of 15 pies , their perception shifts , they start to get a bit bored , a bit testy .
they 're not rational about probability .
they think this game is unfair .
it 's not giving me my last two pies . i 'm going to give up .
if they 're real boxes , there 's not much we can do , but in a game we can just say , " right , well .
when you get to 13 pies , you 've got 75 percent chance of getting a pie now . "
keep you engaged . look at what people do -- adjust the world to match their expectation .
our games don 't always do this .
and one thing they certainly do at the moment is if you got a 0.1 percent awesome item , they make very sure another one doesn 't appear for a certain length of time to keep the value , to keep it special .
and the point is really that we evolved to be satisfied by the world in particular ways .
over tens and hundreds of thousands of years , we evolved to find certain things stimulating , and as very intelligent , civilized beings , we 're enormously stimulated by problem solving and learning .
but now , we can reverse engineer that and build worlds that expressly tick our evolutionary boxes .
so what does all this mean in practice ?
well , i 've come up with seven things that , i think , show how you can take these lessons from games and use them outside of games .
the first one is very simple : experience bars measuring progress -- something that 's been talked about brilliantly by people like jesse schell earlier this year .
it 's already been done at the university of indiana in the states , among other places .
it 's the simple idea that instead of grading people incrementally in little bits and pieces , you give them one profile character avatar which is constantly progressing in tiny , tiny , tiny little increments which they feel are their own .
and everything comes towards that , and they watch it creeping up , and they own that as it goes along .
second , multiple long and short-term aims -- 5,000 pies , boring , 15 pies , interesting .
so , you give people lots and lots of different tasks .
you say , it 's about doing 10 of these questions , but another task is turning up to 20 classes on time , but another task is collaborating with other people , another task is showing you 're working five times , another task is hitting this particular target .
you break things down into these calibrated slices that people can choose and do in parallel to keep them engaged and that you can use to point them towards individually beneficial activities .
third , you reward effort .
it 's your 100 percent factor . games are brilliant at this .
every time you do something , you get credit ; you get a credit for trying .
you don 't punish failure . you reward every little bit of effort -- a little bit of gold , a little bit of credit . you 've done 20 questions -- tick .
it all feeds in as minute reinforcement .
fourth , feedback .
this is absolutely crucial , and virtuality is dazzling at delivering this .
if you look at some of the most intractable problems in the world today that we 've been hearing amazing things about , it 's very , very hard for people to learn if they cannot link consequences to actions .
pollution , global warming , these things -- the consequences are distant in time and space .
it 's very hard to learn , to feel a lesson . but if you can model things for people , if you can give things to people that they can manipulate and play with and where the feedback comes , then they can learn a lesson , they can see , they can move on , they can understand .
and fifth , the element of uncertainty .
now this is the neurological goldmine , if you like , because a known reward excites people , but what really gets them going is the uncertain reward , the reward pitched at the right level of uncertainty , that they didn 't quite know whether they were going to get it or not .
the 25 percent . this lights the brain up .
and if you think about using this in testing , in just introducing control elements of randomness in all forms of testing and training , you can transform the levels of people 's engagement by tapping into this very powerful evolutionary mechanism . when we don 't quite predict something perfectly , we get really excited about it .
we just want to go back and find out more .
as you probably know , the neurotransmitter associated with learning is called dopamine .
it 's associated with reward-seeking behavior .
and something very exciting is just beginning to happen in places like the university of bristol in the u.k. , where we are beginning to be able to model mathematically dopamine levels in the brain .
and what this means is we can predict learning , we can predict enhanced engagement , these windows , these windows of time , in which the learning is taking place at an enhanced level .
and two things really flow from this .
the first has to do with memory , that we can find these moments .
when someone is more likely to remember , we can give them a nugget in a window .
and the second thing is confidence , that we can see how game-playing and reward structures make people braver , make them more willing to take risks , more willing to take on difficulty , harder to discourage . this can all seem very sinister .
but you know , sort of " our brains have been manipulated ; we 're all addicts . "
the word " addiction " is thrown around .
there are real concerns there .
but the biggest neurological turn-on for people is other people .
this is what really excites us .
in reward terms , it 's not money ; it 's not being given cash -- that 's nice -- it 's doing stuff with our peers , watching us , collaborating with us .
and i want to tell you a quick story about 1999 -- a video game called everquest .
and in this video game , there were two really big dragons , and you had to team up to kill them -- 42 people , up to 42 to kill these big dragons .
that 's a problem because they dropped two or three decent items .
so players addressed this problem by spontaneously coming up with a system to motivate each other , fairly and transparently .
what happened was , they paid each other a virtual currency they called " dragon kill points . "
and every time you turned up to go on a mission , you got paid in dragon kill points .
they tracked these on a separate website .
so they tracked their own private currency , and then players could bid afterwards for cool items they wanted -- all organized by the players themselves .
now the staggering system , not just that this worked in everquest , but that today , a decade on , every single video game in the world with this kind of task uses a version of this system -- tens of millions of people .
and the success rate is at close to 100 percent .
this is a player-developed , self-enforcing , voluntary currency , and it 's incredibly sophisticated player behavior .
and i just want to end by suggesting a few ways in which these principles could fan out into the world .
let 's start with business .
i mean , we 're beginning to see some of the big problems around something like business are recycling and energy conservation .
we 're beginning to see the emergence of wonderful technologies like real-time energy meters .
and i just look at this , and i think , yes , we could take that so much further by allowing people to set targets by setting calibrated targets , by using elements of uncertainty , by using these multiple targets , by using a grand , underlying reward and incentive system , by setting people up to collaborate in terms of groups , in terms of streets to collaborate and compete , to use these very sophisticated group and motivational mechanics we see .
in terms of education , perhaps most obviously of all , we can transform how we engage people .
we can offer people the grand continuity of experience and personal investment .
we can break things down into highly calibrated small tasks .
we can use calculated randomness .
we can reward effort consistently as everything fields together .
and we can use the kind of group behaviors that we see evolving when people are at play together , these really quite unprecedentedly complex cooperative mechanisms .
government , well , one thing that comes to mind is the u.s. government , among others , is literally starting to pay people to lose weight .
so we 're seeing financial reward being used to tackle the great issue of obesity .
but again , those rewards could be calibrated so precisely if we were able to use the vast expertise of gaming systems to just jack up that appeal , to take the data , to take the observations , of millions of human hours and plow that feedback into increasing engagement .
and in the end , it 's this word , " engagement , " that i want to leave you with .
it 's about how individual engagement can be transformed by the psychological and the neurological lessons we can learn from watching people that are playing games .
but it 's also about collective engagement and about the unprecedented laboratory for observing what makes people tick and work and play and engage on a grand scale in games .
and if we can look at these things and learn from them and see how to turn them outwards , then i really think we have something quite revolutionary on our hands .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / ellen _ gustafson _ obesity _ hunger _ 1 _ global _ food _ issue.html
co-creator of the philanthropic feed bags , ellen gustafson says hunger and obesity are two sides of the same coin . at tedxeast , she launches the 30 project -- a way to change how we farm and eat in the next 30 years , and solve the global food inequalities behind both epidemics .
food , global issues , health , social change
910
ellen gustafson : obesity + hunger = 1 global food issue
i 'm ellen , and i 'm totally obsessed with food .
but i didn 't start out obsessed with food .
i started out obsessed with global security policy because i lived in new york during 9 / 11 , and it was obviously a very relevant thing .
and i got from global security policy to food because i realized when i 'm hungry , i 'm really pissed off ,
and i 'm assuming that the rest of the world is too .
especially if you 're hungry and your kids are hungry and your neighbor 's kids are hungry and your whole neighborhood is hungry , you 're pretty angry .
and actually , lo and behold , it looks pretty much like the areas of the world that are hungry are also the areas of the world that are pretty insecure .
so i took a job at the united nations world food programme as a way to try to address these security issues through food security issues .
and while i was there , i came across what i think is the most brilliant of their programs .
it 's called school feeding , and it 's a really simple idea to sort of get in the middle of the cycle of poverty and hunger that continues for a lot of people around the world , and stop it .
by giving kids a free school meal , it gets them into school , which is obviously education , the first step out of poverty ,
but it also gives them the micronutrients and the macronutrients they need to really develop both mentally and physically .
while i was working at the u.n. , i met this girl . her name is lauren bush .
and she had this really awesome idea to sell the bag called the " feed bag " -- which is really beautifully ironic because you can strap on the feed bag .
but each bag we 'd sell would provide a year 's worth of school meals for one kid .
it 's so simple , and we thought , you know , okay , it costs between 20 and 50 bucks to provide school feeding for a year .
we could sell these bags and raise a ton of money and a ton of awareness for the world food programme .
but of course , you know at the u.n. , sometimes things move slowly , and they basically said no .
and we thought , god , this is such a good idea and it 's going to raise so much money .
so we said screw it , we 'll just start our own company , which we did three years ago .
so that was kind of my first dream , was to start this company called feed ,
and here 's a screenshot of our website .
we did this bag for haiti , and we launched it just a month after the earthquake to provide school meals for kids in haiti .
so feed 's doing great . we 've so far provided 55 million meals to kids around the world by selling now 550,000 bags , a ton of bags , a lot of bags .
all this time you 're -- when you think about hunger , it 's a hard thing to think about , because what we think about is eating .
i think about eating a lot , and i really love it .
and the thing that 's a little strange about international hunger and talking about international issues is that most people kind of want to know : " what are you doing in america ? "
" what are you doing for america 's kids ? "
there 's definitely hunger in america : 49 million people and almost 16.7 million children .
i mean that 's pretty dramatic for our own country .
hunger definitely means something a little bit different in america than it does internationally , but it 's incredibly important to address hunger in our own country .
but obviously the bigger problem that we all know about is obesity , and it 's dramatic .
the other thing that 's dramatic is that both hunger and obesity have really risen in the last 30 years .
unfortunately , obesity 's not only an american problem .
it 's actually been spreading all around the world and mainly through our kind of food systems that we 're exporting .
the numbers are pretty crazy .
there 's a billion people obese or overweight and a billion people hungry .
so those seem like two bifurcated problems , but i kind of started to think about , you know , what is obesity and hunger ? what are both those things about ?
well , they 're both about food .
and when you think about food , the underpinning of food in both cases is potentially problematic agriculture .
and agriculture is where food comes from .
well , agriculture in america 's very interesting .
it 's very consolidated ,
and the foods that are produced lead to the foods that we eat .
well , the foods that are produced are , more or less , corn , soy and wheat .
and as you can see , that 's three-quarters of the food that we 're eating for the most part : processed foods and fast foods .
unfortunately , in our agricultural system , we haven 't done a good job in the last three decades of exporting those technologies around the world .
so african agriculture , which is the place of most hunger in the world , has actually fallen precipitously as hunger has risen .
so somehow we 're not making the connect between exporting a good agricultural system that will help feed people all around the world .
who is farming them ? that 's what i was wondering .
so i went and stood on a big grain bin in the midwest ,
and that really didn 't help me understand farming , but i think it 's a really cool picture .
and you know , the reality is that between farmers in america , who actually , quite frankly , when i spend time in the midwest , are pretty large in general .
and their farms are also large .
but farmers in the rest of the world are actually quite skinny , and that 's because they 're starving .
most hungry people in the world are subsistence farmers .
and most of those people are women -- which is a totally other topic that i won 't get on right now , but i 'd love to do the feminist thing at some point .
i think it 's really interesting to look at agriculture from these two sides .
there 's this large , consolidated farming that 's led to what we eat in america ,
and it 's really been since around 1980 , after the oil crisis , when , you know , mass consolidation , mass exodus of small farmers in this country .
and then in the same time period , you know , we 've kind of left africa 's farmers to do their own thing .
unfortunately , what is farmed ends up as what we eat .
and in america , a lot of what we eat has led to obesity and has led to a real change in sort of what our diet is in the last 30 years .
it 's crazy .
a fifth of kids under two drinks soda .
hello . you don 't put soda in bottles .
but people do because it 's so cheap ,
and so our whole food system in the last 30 years has really shifted .
i think , you know , it 's not just in our own country , but really we 're exporting the system around the world ,
and when you look at the data of least developed countries -- especially in cities , which are growing really rapidly -- people are eating american processed foods .
and in one generation , they 're going from hunger , and all of the detrimental health effects of hunger , to obesity and things like diabetes and heart disease in one generation .
so the problematic food system is affecting both hunger and obesity .
not to beat a dead horse , but this is a global food system where there 's a billion people hungry and billion people obese .
i think that 's the only way to look at it .
and instead of taking these two things as bifurcated problems that are very separate , it 's really important to look at them as one system .
we get a lot of our food from all around the world ,
and people from all around the world are importing our food system ,
so it 's incredibly relevant to start a new way of looking at it .
the thing is , i 've learned -- and the technology people that are here , which i 'm totally not one of them -- but apparently , it really takes 30 years for a lot of technologies to become really endemic to us , like the mouse and the internet and windows .
you know , there 's 30-year cycles .
i think 2010 can be a really interesting year
because it is the end of the 30-year cycle ,
and it 's the birthday of the global food system .
so that 's the first birthday i want to talk about .
you know , i think if we really think that this is something that 's happened in the last 30 years , there 's hope in that .
it 's the thirtieth anniversary of gmo crops and the big gulp , chicken mcnuggets , high fructose corn syrup , the farm crisis in america and the change in how we 've addressed agriculture internationally .
so there 's a lot of reasons to take this 30-year time period as sort of the creation of this new food system .
i 'm not the only one who 's obsessed with this whole 30-year thing .
the icons like michael pollan and jamie oliver in his ted prize wish both addressed this last three-decade time period as incredibly relevant for food system change .
well , i really care about 1980 because it 's also the thirtieth anniversary of me this year .
and so in my lifetime , a lot of what 's happened in the world -- and being a person obsessed with food -- a lot of this has really changed .
so my second dream is that i think we can look to the next 30 years as a time to change the food system again .
and we know what 's happened in the past , so if we start now , and we look at technologies and improvements to the food system long term , we might be able to recreate the food system
so when i give my next talk and i 'm 60 years old , i 'll be able to say that it 's been a success .
so i 'm announcing today the start of a new organization , or a new fund within the feed foundation , called the 30 project .
and the 30 project is really focused on these long-term ideas for food system change .
and i think by aligning international advocates that are addressing hunger and domestic advocates that are addressing obesity , we might actually look for long-term solutions that will make the food system better for everyone .
we all tend to think that these systems are quite different ,
and people argue whether or not organic can feed the world ,
but if we take a 30-year view , there 's more hope in collaborative ideas .
so i 'm hoping that by connecting really disparate organizations like the one campaign and slow food , which don 't seem right now to have much in common , we can talk about holistic , long-term , systemic solutions that will improve food for everyone .
some ideas i 've had is like , look , the reality is -- kids in the south bronx need apples and carrots and so do kids in botswana .
and how are we going to get those kids those nutritious foods ?
another thing that 's become incredibly global is production of meat and fish .
understanding how to produce protein in a way that 's healthy for the environment and healthy for people will be incredibly important to address things like climate change and how we use petrochemical fertilizers .
and you know , these are really relevant topics that are long term and important for both people in africa who are small farmers and people in america who are farmers and eaters .
and i also think that thinking about processed foods in a new way , where we actually price the negative externalities like petrochemicals and like fertilizer runoff into the price of a bag of chips .
well , if that bag of chips then becomes inherently more expensive than an apple , then maybe it 's time for a different sense of personal responsibility in food choice because the choices are actually choices instead of three-quarters of the products being made just from corn , soy and wheat .
the 30project.org is launched , and i 've gathered a coalition of a few organizations to start .
and it 'll be growing over the next few months .
but i really hope that you will all think of ways that you can look long term at things like the food system and make change .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / joshua _ prince _ ramus _ building _ a _ theater _ that _ remakes _ itself.html
joshua prince-ramus believes that if architects re-engineer their design process , the results can be spectacular . speaking at tedxsmu , dallas , he walks us through his fantastic re-creation of the local wyly theater as a giant " theatrical machine " that reconfigures itself at the touch of a button .
architecture , arts , creativity , design , theater
750
joshua prince-ramus : building a theater that remakes itself
i 'm going to speak to you today about architectural agency .
what i mean by that is that it 's time for architecture to do things again , not just represent things .
this is a construction helmet that i received two years ago at the groundbreaking of the largest project i , and my firm , have ever been involved in .
i was thrilled to get it . i was thrilled to be the only person standing on the stage with a shiny silver helmet .
i thought it represented the importance of the architect .
i stayed thrilled until i got home ,
threw the helmet onto my bed , fell down onto my bed and realized inside there was an inscription .
now , i think that this is a great metaphor for the state of architecture and architects today .
we are for decorative purposes only .
now , who do we have to blame ?
we can only blame ourselves . over the last 50 years the design and construction industry has gotten much more complex and has gotten much more litigious .
and we architects are cowards .
so , as we have faced liability , we have stepped back and back , and unfortunately , where there is liability , guess what there is :
power .
so , eventually we have found ourselves in a totally marginalized position , way over here .
now , what did we do ? we 're cowards , but we 're smart cowards .
and so we redefined this marginalized position as the place of architecture .
and we announced , " hey , architecture , it 's over here , in this autonomous language we 're going to seed control of processes . " and we were going to do something that was horrible for the profession .
we actually created an artificial schism between creation and execution , as if you could actually create without knowing how to execute and as if you could actually execute without knowing how to create .
now , something else happened .
and that 's when we began to sell the world that architecture was created by individuals creating genius sketches .
and that the incredible amount of effort to deliver those sketches for years and years and years is not only something to be derided , but we would merely write it off as merely execution .
now i 'd argue that that is as absurd as stating that 30 minutes of copulation is the creative act , and nine months of gestation , and , god forbid , 24 hours of child labor is merely execution .
so , what do we architects need to do ? we need to stitch back creation and execution .
and we need to start authoring processes again instead of authoring objects .
now , if we do this , i believe we can go back 50 years and start reinjecting agency , social engineering , back into architecture .
now , there are all kinds of things that we architects need to learn how to do , like managing contracts , learning how to write contracts , understanding procurement processes , understanding the time value of money and cost estimation .
but i 'm going to reduce this to the beginning of the process , into three very pedantic statements .
the first is : take core positions with your client .
i know it 's shocking , right , that architecture would actually say that .
the second position is : actually take positions .
take joint positions with your client .
this is the moment in which you as the architect and your client can begin to inject vision and agency .
but it has to be done together .
and then only after this is done are you allowed to do this , begin to put forward architectural manifestations that manifest those positions .
and both owner and architect alike are empowered to critique those manifestations based on the positions that you 've taken .
now , i believe that one really amazing thing will happen if you do this .
i 'd like to call it the lost art of productively losing control .
you do not know what the end result is .
but i promise you , with enough brain power and enough passion and enough commitment , you will arrive at conclusions that will transcend convention , and will simply be something that you could not have initially or individually conceived of .
alright , now i 'm going to reduce all of this to a series of simple dumb sketches .
this is the modus operandi that we have today .
we roll 120-foot spartan , i.e. our vision , up to our clients ' gates of troy . and we don 't understand why they won 't let us in . right ?
well , how about instead of doing that , we roll up to the gates something they want .
now this is a little bit of a dangerous metaphor , because of course we all know that inside of the trojan horse were a bunch of people with spears .
so , we can change the metaphor . let 's call the trojan horse the vessel by which you get through the gate , get through the constraints of a project .
at which point , you and your client have the ability to start considering what you 're going to put inside that vessel ,
the agency , the vision .
and if you do that , you do that responsibly , i believe that instead of delivering spartans , you can deliver maidens .
and if i could summarize that all up into one single sketch it would be this .
if we are so good at our craft shouldn 't we be able to conceive of an architectural manifestation that slides seamlessly through the project 's and the client 's constraints ?
now , with that in mind , i 'm going to show a project that 's very dear to many people in this room-- well , maybe not dear , but certainly close to many people in this room .
and that 's a project that is just about to open next week , the new home for the dallas theater center , the dee and charles wyly theatre .
now , i 'm going to present it on the same terms : issue , position and architectural manifestation .
now , the first issue that we faced was that the dallas theater center had a notoriety that was beyond what you would expect of some place outside of the triumvirate of new york , chicago and seattle .
and this had to do with the ambitions of the leadership . but it also had to do with something rather unusual , and that was this horrible little building that they 'd been performing in .
why was this horrible little building so important to their renown and their innovation ?
because they could do whatever they wanted to to this building .
when you 're on broadway , you cannot tear the proscenium down .
this building , when an artistic director wanted to do a " cherry orchard " and wanted people and wanted people to come out of a well on the stage , they brought a backhoe in , and they simply dug the hole .
well , that 's exciting .
and you can start to get the best artistic directors , scenic designers and actors from around the country to come to perform here because you can do things you can 't do elsewhere .
so , the first position we took was , " hey , we as architects had better not show up and do a pristine building that doesn 't engender the same freedoms that this old dilapidated shed provided the company . " the second issue is a nuance of the first .
and that 's that the company and the building was multiform .
that meant that they were able to perform , as long as they had labor they were able to go between proscenium , thrust , flat floor , arena , traverse , you name it .
all they needed was labor .
well , something happened . in fact something happened to all institutions around the world .
it started to become hard to raise operational costs , operational budgets .
so , they stopped having inexpensive labor .
and eventually they had to freeze their organization into something called a bastardized thruscenium .
so , the second position we took is that the freedoms that we provided , the ability to move between stage configurations , had better be able to be done without relying on operational costs . alright ? affordably .
the architectural manifestation was frankly just dumb .
it was to take all the things that are known as front of house and back of house and redefine them as above house and below house .
at first blush you think , " hey it 's crazy , what could you possibly gain ? " we created what we like to call superfly .
now , superfly , the concept is you take all the freedoms you normally associate with the flytower , and you smear them across flytower and auditorium .
suddenly the artistic director can move between different stage and audience configurations .
and because that flytower has the ability to pick up all the pristine elements , suddenly the rest of the environment can be provisional . and you can drill , cut , nail , screw paint and replace , with a minimum of cost .
but there was a third advantage that we got by doing this move that was unexpected .
and that was that it freed up the perimeter of the auditorium in a most unusual way .
and that provided the artistic director suddenly the ability to define suspension of disbelief .
so , the building affords artistic directors the freedom to conceive of almost any kind of activity underneath this floating object .
but also to challenge the notion of suspension of disbelief such that in the last act of macbeth , if he or she wants you to associate the parable that you 're seeing with dallas , with your real life , he or she can do so .
now , in order to do this we and the clients had to do something fairly remarkable .
in fact it really was the clients who had to do it .
they had to make a decision , based on the positions we took to redefine the budget being from two thirds capital-a architecture and one-third infrastructure , to actually the inverse , two-thirds infrastructure and one-third capital-a architecture .
that 's a lot for a client to commit to before you actually see the fruition of the concept .
but based on the positions , they took the educated leap of faith to do so .
and effectively we created what we like to call a theater machine .
now , that theater machine has ability to move between a whole series of configurations at the push of a button and a few stagehands in a short amount of time .
but it also has the potential to not only provide multiform but multi-processional sequences .
meaning : the artistic director doesn 't necessarily need to go through our lobby .
one of the things that we learned when we visited various theaters is they hate us architects , because they say the first thing they have to do , the first five minutes of any show , is they have to get our architecture out of the mind of their patron .
well now there are potentials of this building to allow the artistic director to actually move into the building without using our architecture .
so , in fact , there is the building , there is what we call the draw . you 're going down into our lobby , go through the lobby with our own little dangly bits , whether you like them or not , up through the stair that leads you into the auditorium .
but there is also the potential to allow people to move directly from the outside , in this case suggesting kind of wagnerian entrance , into the interior of the auditorium .
and here is the fruition of that in actuality . these are the two large pivoting doors that allow people to move directly from the outside , in or from the inside , out , performers or audience alike .
now , imagine what that could be . i have to say honestly this is not something yet the building can do because it takes too long .
but imagine the freedoms if you could take this further , that in fact you could consider a wagnerian entry , a first act in thrust , an intermission in greek , a second act in arena , and you leave through our lobby with dangly bits .
now that , i would say , is architecture performing .
it is taking the hand of the architect to actually remove the hand of the architect in favor of the hand of the artistic director .
i 'll go through the three basic configurations .
this is the flat floor configuration .
you notice that there is no proscenium , the balconies have been raised up , there are no seats , the floor in the auditorium is flat .
the first configuration is easy to understand .
the balconies come down , you see that the orchestra begins to have a rake that 's frontal towards the end stage , and the seats come in .
the third configuration is a little harder to understand .
here you see that the balconies actually have to move out of the way in order to bring a thrust into the space .
and some of the seats need to actually change their direction , and change their rake , to allow that to happen .
i 'll do it again so you can see it .
there you see it 's the side balconies for the proscenium .
and there it is in the thrust configuration .
in order to do that , again , we needed a client who was willing to take educational risks .
and they told us one important thing :
" you shall not beta-test . " meaning , nothing that we do can we be the first ones to do it .
but they were willing for us to apply technologies from other areas that already had failsafe mechanisms to this building .
and the solution in terms of the balconies was to use something that we all know as a scoreboard lift .
now , if you were to take a scoreboard and drop it on dirt and whiskey , that would be bad .
if you were not able to take the scoreboard out of the arena and be able to do the ice capades the next night , that would also be bad .
and so this technology already had all the failsafe mechanisms and allowed the theater and our client to actually do this with confidence that they would be able to change over their configurations at will .
the second technology that we applied was actually using things that you know from the stage side of an opera house .
in this case what we 're doing is we 're taking the orchestra floor , lifting it up , spinning it , changing the rake , taking it back to flat floor , changing the rake again . in essence , you can begin to define rakes and viewing angles of people in the orchestra seating , at will .
here you see the chairs being spun around to go from proscenium or end stage to thrust configuration .
the proscenium , also . as far as we know this is the first building in the world in which the proscenium can entirely fly out of the space .
here you see the various acoustic baffles as well as the flying mechanisms and catwalks over the auditorium .
and ultimately , up in the flytower , the scene sets that allow the transformations to occur .
as i said , all that was in service of creating a flexible yet affordable configuration .
but we got this other benefit , and that was the ability of the perimeter to suddenly engage dallas on the outside .
here you see the building in its current state with blinds closed . this is a trompe l 'oeil .
actually this is not a curtain . these are vinyl blinds that are integrated into the windows themselves , again with failsafe mechanisms that can be lifted such that you can completely demystify , if you chose , the operations of the theater going on behind , rehearsals and so forth .
but you also have the ability to allow the audience to see dallas , to perform with dallas as the backdrop of your performance .
now , if i 'll take you through -- this is an early concept sketch -- take you through kind of a mixture of all these things together .
effectively you would have something like this .
you would be allowed to bring objects or performers into the performing chamber :
" aida , " their elephants , you can bring the elephants in .
you would be able to expose the auditorium to dallas or vice versa , dallas to the auditorium .
you 'd be able to open portions in order to change the procession , allow people to come in and out for an intermission , or to enter for the beginning or the end of a performance .
as i said , all the balconies can move , but they can also be disappeared completely .
the proscenium can fly .
you can bring large objects into the chamber itself .
but most convincingly when we had to confront the idea of changing costs from architecture to infrastructure , is something that is represented by this .
and again , this is not all the flexibilities of the building that is actually built , but at least suggests the ideas .
this building has the ability , in short order , to go back to a flat floor organization such that they can rent it out .
now , if there is anyone here from american airlines , please consider doing your christmas party here .
that allows the company to raise operational budgets without having to compete with other venues with much larger auditoriums .
that 's an enormous benefit .
so , the theater company has the ability to do totally hermetic , light-controlled , sound-controlled , great acoustics , great intimacy shakespeare , but can also do beckett with the skyline of dallas sitting behind it .
here it is in a flat floor configuration .
the theater has been going through its kind of paces .
here it is in an end stage configuration .
it 's actually beautiful . there was a rock band .
we stood outside trying to see if the acoustics worked , and you could see the guys doing this but you couldn 't hear them .
it was very unusual .
here it is in a thrust configuration .
and last but not least , you see this already has the ability to create events in order to generate operational budgets to overcome the building in fact performing to allow the company to overcome their biggest problem .
i 'm going to show you a brief time lapse .
as i said , this can be done with only two people , and with a minimum amount of time .
this is the first time that actually the changeover was done and so there is literally thousands of people because everyone was excited and wanted to be a part of it .
so , in a way try to disregard all the thousands of ants running around . and think of it being done with just a few people .
again , just a couple people are required .
i promise .
et voila .
so , just in conclusion , a few shots .
this is the at & t performing arts center 's dee and charles wyly theater .
there it is at night .
and last but not least the entire at & t performing arts center .
you can see the winspear opera house on the right and the dee and charles wyly theater on the left .
and to remind you that here is an example in which architecture actually did something . but we got to that conclusion without understanding where we were going ,
what we knew were a series of issues that the company and the client was confronted with .
and we took positions with them , and it was through those positions that we began to take architectural manifestations and we arrived at a conclusion that none of us , really none of us could ever have conceived of initially or individually .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jonathan _ harris _ collects _ stories.html
at the eg conference in december 2007 , artist jonathan harris discusses his latest projects , which involve collecting stories : his own , strangers ' , and stories collected from the internet , including his amazing " we feel fine . "
art , arts , culture , entertainment , global issues , happiness , software , storytelling , web
316
jonathan harris collects stories
so i 'm going to talk today about collecting stories in some unconventional ways .
this is a picture of me from a very awkward stage in my life .
you might enjoy the awkwardly tight , cut-off pajama bottoms with balloons .
anyway , it was a time when i was mainly interested in collecting imaginary stories .
so this is a picture of me holding one of the first watercolor paintings i ever made .
and recently i 've been much more interested in collecting stories from reality -- so , real stories .
and specifically , i 'm interested in collecting my own stories , stories from the internet , and then recently , stories from life , which is kind of a new area of work that i 've been doing recently .
so i 'll be talking about each of those today .
so , first of all , my own stories . these are two of my sketchbooks .
i have many of these books , and i 've been keeping them for about the last eight or nine years .
they accompany me wherever i go in my life , and i fill them with all sorts of things , records of my lived experience :
so watercolor paintings , drawings of what i see , dead flowers , dead insects , pasted ticket stubs , rusting coins , business cards , writings .
and in these books , you can find these short , little glimpses of moments and experiences and people that i meet .
and , you know , after keeping these books for a number of years , i started to become very interested in collecting not only my own personal artifacts , but also the artifacts of other people .
so , i started collecting found objects .
this is a photograph i found lying in a gutter in new york city about 10 years ago .
on the front , you can see the tattered black-and-white photo of a woman 's face , and on the back it says , " to judy , the girl with the bill bailey voice . have fun in whatever you do . "
and i really loved this idea of the partial glimpse into somebody 's life . as opposed to knowing the whole story , just knowing a little bit of the story , and then letting your own mind fill in the rest .
and that idea of a partial glimpse is something that will come back in a lot of the work i 'll be showing later today .
so , around this time i was studying computer science at princeton university , and i noticed that it was suddenly possible to collect these sorts of personal artifacts , not just from street corners , but also from the internet .
and that suddenly , people , en masse , were leaving scores and scores of digital footprints online that told stories of their private lives .
blog posts , photographs , thoughts , feelings , opinions , all of these things were being expressed by people online , and leaving behind trails .
so , i started to write computer programs that study very , very large sets of these online footprints .
one such project is about a year and a half old .
it 's called " we feel fine . "
this is a project that scans the world 's newly posted blog entries every two or three minutes , searching for occurrences of the phrases " i feel " and " i am feeling . " and when it finds one of those phrases , it grabs the full sentence up to the period and also tries to identify demographic information about the author .
so , their gender , their age , their geographic location and what the weather conditions were like when they wrote that sentence .
it collects about 20,000 such sentences a day and it 's been running for about a year and a half , having collected over 10 and a half million feelings now .
this is , then , how they 're presented .
these dots here represent some of the english-speaking world 's feelings from the last few hours ,
each dot being a single sentence stated by a single blogger .
and the color of each dot corresponds to the type of feeling inside , so the bright ones are happy , and the dark ones are sad .
and the diameter of each dot corresponds to the length of the sentence inside .
so the small ones are short , and the bigger ones are longer .
" i feel fine with the body i 'm in , there 'll be no easy excuse for why i still feel uncomfortable being close to my boyfriend , " from a twenty-two-year-old in japan .
" i got this on some trading locally , but really don 't feel like screwing with wiring and crap . "
also , some of the feelings contain photographs in the blog posts . and when that happens , these montage compositions are automatically created , which consist of the sentence and images being combined .
and any of these can be opened up to reveal the sentence inside .
" i feel good . "
" i feel rough now , and i probably gained 100,000 pounds , but it was worth it . "
" i love how they were able to preserve most in everything that makes you feel close to nature -- butterflies , man-made forests , limestone caves and hey , even a huge python . "
so the next movement is called mobs .
this provides a slightly more statistical look at things .
this is showing the world 's most common feelings overall right now , dominated by better , then bad , then good , then guilty , and so on .
weather causes the feelings to assume the physical traits of the weather they represent . so the sunny ones swirl around , the cloudy ones float along , the rainy ones fall down , and the snowy ones flutter to the ground .
you can also stop a raindrop and open the feeling inside .
finally , location causes the feelings to move to their spots on a world map , giving you a sense of their geographic distribution .
so i 'll show you now some of my favorite montages from " we feel fine . "
these are the images that are automatically constructed .
" i feel like i 'm diagonally parked in a parallel universe . "
" i 've kissed numerous other boys and it hasn 't felt good , the kisses felt messy and wrong , but kissing lucas feels beautiful and almost spiritual . "
" i can feel my cancer grow . "
" i feel pretty . "
" i feel skinny , but i 'm not . "
" i 'm 23 , and a recovering meth and heroin addict , and feel absolutely blessed to still be alive . "
" i can 't wait to see them racing for the first time at daytona next month , because i feel the need for speed . "
" i feel sassy . "
" i feel so sexy in this new wig . "
as you can see , " we feel fine " collects very , very small-scale personal stories .
sometimes , stories as short as two or three words .
so , really even challenging the notion of what can be considered a story .
and recently , i 've become interested in diving much more deeply into a single story .
and that 's led me to doing some work with the physical world , not with the internet , and only using the internet at the very last moment , as a presentation medium .
so these are some newer projects that actually aren 't even launched publicly yet .
the first such one is called " the whale hunt . " last may , i spent nine days living up in barrow , alaska , the northernmost settlement in the united states , with a family of inupiat eskimos , documenting their annual spring whale hunt .
this is the whaling camp here , we 're about six miles from shore , camping on five and a half feet of thick , frozen pack ice .
and that water that you see there is the open lead , and through that lead , bowhead whales migrate north each springtime .
and the eskimo community basically camps out on the edge of the ice here , waits for a whale to come close enough to attack . and when it does , it throws a harpoon at it , and then hauls the whale up under the ice , and cuts it up .
and that would provide the community 's food supply for a long time .
so i went up there , and i lived with these guys out in their whaling camp here , and photographed the entire experience , beginning with the taxi ride to newark airport in new york , and ending with the butchering of the second whale , seven and a half days later .
i photographed that entire experience at five-minute intervals .
so every five minutes , i took a photograph .
when i was awake , with the camera around my neck . when i was sleeping , with a tripod and a timer .
and then in moments of high adrenaline , like when something exciting was happening , i would up that photographic frequency to as many as 37 photographs in five minutes .
so what this created was a photographic heartbeat that sped up and slowed down , more or less matching the changing pace of my own heartbeat .
that was the first concept here .
the second concept was to use this experience to think about the fundamental components of any story .
what are the things that make up a story ?
so , stories have characters . stories have concepts .
stories take place in a certain area . they have contexts .
they have colors . what do they look like ?
they have time . when did it take place ? dates -- when did it occur ?
and in the case of the whale hunt , also this idea of an excitement level .
the thing about stories , though , in most of the existing mediums that we 're accustomed to -- things like novels , radio , photographs , movies , even lectures like this one -- we 're very accustomed to this idea of the narrator or the camera position ,
some kind of omniscient , external body through whose eyes you see the story .
we 're very used to this .
but if you think about real life , it 's not like that at all .
i mean , in real life , things are much more nuanced and complex , and there 's all of these overlapping stories intersecting and touching each other .
and so i thought it would be interesting to build a framework to surface those types of stories . so , in the case of " the whale hunt , " how could we extract something like the story of simeon and crawford , involving the concepts of wildlife , tools and blood , taking place on the arctic ocean , dominated by the color red , happening around 10 a.m. on may 3 , with an excitement level of high ?
so , how to extract this order of narrative from this larger story ?
i built a web interface for viewing " the whale hunt " that attempts to do just this .
so these are all 3,214 pictures taken up there .
this is my studio in brooklyn . this is the arctic ocean , and the butchering of the second whale , seven days later .
you can start to see some of the story here , told by color .
so this red strip signifies the color of the wallpaper in the basement apartment where i was staying .
and things go white as we move out onto the arctic ocean .
introduction of red down here , when whales are being cut up .
you can see a timeline , showing you the exciting moments throughout the story .
these are organized chronologically .
wheel provides a slightly more playful version of the same , so these are also all the photographs organized chronologically .
and any of these can be clicked , and then the narrative is entered at that position .
so here i am sleeping on the airplane heading up to alaska .
that 's " moby dick . "
this is the food we ate .
this is in the patkotak 's family living room in their house in barrow . the boxed wine they served us .
cigarette break outside -- i don 't smoke .
this is a really exciting sequence of me sleeping .
this is out at whale camp , on the arctic ocean .
this graph that i 'm clicking down here is meant to be reminiscent of a medical heartbeat graph , showing the exciting moments of adrenaline .
this is the ice starting to freeze over . the snow fence they built .
and so what i 'll show you now is the ability to pull out sub-stories .
so , here you see the cast . these are all of the people in " the whale hunt " and the two whales that were killed down here .
and we could do something as arbitrary as , say , extract the story of rony , involving the concepts of blood and whales and tools , taking place on the arctic ocean , at ahkivgaq camp , with the heartbeat level of fast .
and now we 've whittled down that whole story to just 29 matching photographs , and then we can enter the narrative at that position .
and you can see rony cutting up the whale here .
these whales are about 40 feet long , and weighing over 40 tons . and they provide the food source for the community for much of the year .
skipping ahead a bit more here , this is rony on the whale carcass .
they use no chainsaws or anything ; it 's entirely just blades , and an incredibly efficient process .
this is the guys on the rope , pulling open the carcass .
this is the muktuk , or the blubber , all lined up for community distribution .
it 's baleen . moving on .
so what i 'm going to tell you about next is a very new thing . it 's not even a project yet .
so , just yesterday , i flew in here from singapore , and before that , i was spending two weeks in bhutan , the small himalayan kingdom nestled between tibet and india .
and i was doing a project there about happiness , interviewing a lot of local people .
so bhutan has this really wacky thing where they base most of their high-level governmental decisions around the concept of gross national happiness instead of gross domestic product , and they 've been doing this since the ' 70s .
and it leads to just a completely different value system .
it 's an incredibly non-materialistic culture , where people don 't have a lot , but they 're incredibly happy .
so i went around and i talked to people about some of these ideas .
so , i did a number of things . i asked people a number of set questions , and took a number of set photographs , and interviewed them with audio , and also took pictures .
i would start by asking people to rate their happiness between one and 10 , which is kind of inherently absurd .
and then when they answered , i would inflate that number of balloons and give them that number of balloons to hold .
so , you have some really happy person holding 10 balloons , and some really sad soul holding one balloon .
but you know , even holding one balloon is like , kind of happy .
and then i would ask them a number of questions like what was the happiest day in their life , what makes them happy .
and then finally , i would ask them to make a wish .
and when they made a wish , i would write their wish onto one of the balloons and take a picture of them holding it .
so i 'm going to show you now just a few brief snippets of some of the interviews that i did , some of the people i spoke with .
this is an 11-year-old student .
he was playing cops and robbers with his friends , running around town , and they all had plastic toy guns .
his wish was to become a police officer .
he was getting started early . those were his hands .
i took pictures of everybody 's hands , because i think you can often tell a lot about somebody from how their hands look . i took a portrait of everybody , and asked everybody to make a funny face .
a 17-year-old student . her wish was to have been born a boy .
she thinks that women have a pretty tough go of things in bhutan , and it 's a lot easier if you 're a boy .
a 28-year-old cell phone shop owner .
if you knew what paro looked like , you 'd understand how amazing it is that there 's a cell phone shop there .
he wanted to help poor people .
a 53-year-old farmer . she was chaffing wheat , and that pile of wheat behind her had taken her about a week to make .
she wanted to keep farming until she dies .
you can really start to see the stories told by the hands here .
she was wearing this silver ring that had the word " love " engraved on it , and she 'd found it in the road somewhere .
a 16-year-old quarry worker .
this guy was breaking rocks with a hammer in the hot sunlight , but he just wanted to spend his life as a farmer .
a 21-year-old monk . he was very happy .
he wanted to live a long life at the monastery .
he had this amazing series of hairs growing out of a mole on the left side of his face , which i 'm told is very good luck .
he was kind of too shy to make a funny face .
a 16-year-old student .
she wanted to become an independent woman .
i asked her about that , and she said she meant that she doesn 't want to be married , because , in her opinion , when you get married in bhutan as a woman , your chances to live an independent life kind of end , and so she had no interest in that .
a 24-year-old truck driver .
there are these terrifyingly huge indian trucks that come careening around one-lane roads with two-lane traffic , with 3,000-foot drop-offs right next to the road , and he was driving one of these trucks .
but all he wanted was to just live a comfortable life , like other people .
a 24-year-old road sweeper . i caught her on her lunch break .
she 'd built a little fire to keep warm , right next to the road .
her wish was to marry someone with a car .
she wanted a change in her life .
she lives in a little worker 's camp right next to the road , and she wanted a different lot on things .
an 81-year-old itinerant farmer .
i saw this guy on the side of the road , and he actually doesn 't have a home .
he travels from farm to farm each day trying to find work , and then he tries to sleep at whatever farm he gets work at .
so his wish was to come with me , so that he had somewhere to live .
he had this amazing knife that he pulled out of his gho and started brandishing when i asked him to make a funny face .
it was all good-natured .
a 10-year-old .
he wanted to join a school and learn to read , but his parents didn 't have enough money to send him to school .
he was eating this orange , sugary candy that he kept dipping his fingers into , and since there was so much saliva on his hands , this orange paste started to form on his palms .
a 37-year-old road worker .
one of the more touchy political subjects in bhutan is the use of indian cheap labor that they import from india to build the roads , and then they send these people home once the roads are built .
so these guys were in a worker 's gang mixing up asphalt one morning on the side of the highway .
his wish was to make some money and open a store .
a 75-year-old farmer . she was selling oranges on the side of the road .
i asked her about her wish , and she said , " you know , maybe i 'll live , maybe i 'll die , but i don 't have a wish . "
she was chewing betel nut , which caused her teeth over the years to turn very red .
finally , this is a 26-year-old nun i spoke to .
her wish was to make a pilgrimage to tibet .
i asked her how long she planned to live in the nunnery and she said , " well , you know , of course , it 's impermanent , but my plan is to live here until i 'm 30 , and then enter a hermitage . "
and i said , " you mean , like a cave ? " and she said , " yeah , like a cave . "
and i said , " wow , and how long will you live in the cave ? "
and she said , " well , you know , i think i 'd kind of like to live my whole life in the cave . "
i just thought that was amazing . i mean , she spoke in a way -- with amazing english , and amazing humor , and amazing laughter -- that made her seem like somebody i could have bumped into on the streets of new york , or in vermont , where i 'm from .
but here she had been living in a nunnery for the last seven years .
i asked her a little bit more about the cave and what she planned would happen once she went there , you know .
what if she saw the truth after just one year , what would she do for the next 35 years in her life ?
and this is what she said .
woman : i think i 'm going to stay for 35 . maybe -- maybe i 'll die .
jonathan harris : maybe you 'll die ? woman : yes .
jh : 10 years ? woman : yes , yes . jh : 10 years , that 's a long time .
woman : yes , not maybe one , 10 years , maybe i can die within one year , or something like that .
jh : are you hoping to ?
woman : ah , because you know , it 's impermanent .
jh : yeah , but -- yeah , ok . do you hope -- would you prefer to live in the cave for 40 years , or to live for one year ?
woman : but i prefer for maybe 40 to 50 .
jh : 40 to 50 ? yeah .
woman : yes . from then , i 'm going to the heaven .
jh : well , i wish you the best of luck with it .
woman : thank you .
jh : i hope it 's everything that you hope it will be .
so thank you again , so much .
woman : you 're most welcome .
jh : so if you caught that , she said she hoped to die when she was around 40 . that was enough life for her .
so , the last thing we did , very quickly , is i took all those wish balloons -- there were 117 interviews , 117 wishes -- and i brought them up to a place called dochula , which is a mountain pass in bhutan , at 10,300 feet , one of the more sacred places in bhutan .
and up there , there are thousands of prayer flags that people have spread out over the years .
and we re-inflated all of the balloons , put them up on a string , and hung them up there among the prayer flags .
and they 're actually still flying up there today .
so if any of you have any bhutan travel plans in the near future , you can go check these out . here are some images from that .
we said a buddhist prayer so that all these wishes could come true .
you can start to see some familiar balloons here .
" to make some money and to open a store " was the indian road worker .
thanks very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / golan _ levin _ on _ software _ as _ art.html
engineer and artist golan levin pushes the boundaries of what 's possible with audiovisuals and technology . in an amazing ted display , he shows two programs he wrote to perform his original compositions .
art , arts , entertainment , invention , music , performance , software , technology
14
golan levin on software art
imagine spending seven years at mit and research laboratories , only to find out that you 're a performance artist .
i 'm also a software engineer , and i make lots of different kinds of art with the computer .
and i think the main thing that i 'm interested in is trying to find a way of making the computer into a personal mode of expression .
and many of you out there are the heads of macromedia and microsoft , and in a way those are my bane :
i think there 's a great homogenizing force that software imposes on people and limits the way they think about what 's possible on the computer .
of course , it 's also a great liberating force that makes possible , you know , publishing and so forth , and standards , and so on .
but , in a way , the computer makes possible much more than what most people think , and my art has just been about trying to find a personal way of using the computer , and so i end up writing software to do that .
chris has asked me to do a short performance , and so i 'm going to take just this time -- maybe 10 minutes -- to do that , and hopefully at the end have just a moment to show you a couple of my other projects in video form .
thank you .
we 've got about a minute left .
i 'd just like to show a clip from a most recent project .
i did a performance with two singers who specialize in making strange noises with their mouths .
and this just came off last september at ars electronica ; we repeated it in england .
and the idea is to visualize their speech and song behind them with a large screen .
we used a computer vision tracking system in order to know where they were .
and since we know where their heads are , and we have a wireless mic on them that we 're processing the sound from , we 're able to create visualizations which are linked very tightly to what they 're doing with their speech .
this will take about 30 seconds or so .
he 's making a , kind of , cheek-flapping sound .
well , suffice it to say it 's not all like that , but that 's part of it .
thanks very much . there 's always lots more .
i 'm overtime , so i just wanted to say you can , if you 're in new york , you can check out my work at the whitney biennial next week , and also at bitforms gallery in chelsea .
and with that , i think i should give up the stage ,
so , thank you so much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / george _ whitesides _ a _ lab _ the _ size _ of _ a _ postage _ stamp.html
traditional lab tests for disease diagnosis can be too expensive and cumbersome for the regions most in need . george whitesides ' ingenious answer , at tedxboston , is a foolproof tool that can be manufactured at virtually zero cost .
chemistry , development , disease , poverty , science , technology
760
george whitesides : a lab the size of a postage stamp
the problem that i want to talk with you about is really the problem of : how does one supply healthcare in a world in which cost is everything ?
how do you do that ?
and the basic paradigm we want to suggest to you , i want to suggest to you , is treat disease you have to first know what you 're treating -- that 's diagnostics -- and then you have to do something .
so , the program that we 're involved in is something which we call diagnostics for all , or zero-cost diagnostics .
how do you provide medically relevant information at as close as possible to zero cost ? how do you do it ?
let me just give you two examples .
the rigors of military medicine are not so dissimilar from the third world -- poor resources , a rigorous environment , a series of problems in lightweight , and things of this kind --
and also not so different from the home healthcare and diagnostic system world .
so , the technology that i want to talk about is for the third world , for the developing world , but it has , i think , much broader application , because information is so important in the healthcare system .
so , you see two examples here .
one is a lab that is actually a fairly high-end laboratory in africa .
the second is basically an entrepreneur who is set up and doing who-knows-what in a table in a market .
i don 't know what kind of healthcare is delivered there .
but it 's not really what is probably most efficient .
what is our approach ?
and the way in which one typically approaches a problem of lowering cost , starting from the perspective of the united states , is to take our solution , and then to try to cut cost out of it .
no matter how you do that , you 're not going to start with a 100,000-dollar instrument and bring it down to no-cost . it isn 't going to work .
so , the approach that we took was the other way around .
to ask , " what is the cheapest possible stuff that you could make a diagnostic system out of , and get useful information , add function ? " and what we 've chosen is paper .
what you see here is a prototypic device .
it 's about a centimeter on the side .
it 's about the size of a fingernail .
the lines around the edges are a polymer .
it 's made of paper and paper , of course , wicks fluid ,
as you know , paper , cloth -- drop wine on the tablecloth , and the wine wicks all over everything .
put it on your shirt , it ruins the shirt .
that 's what a hydrophilic surface does .
so , in this device the idea is that you drip the bottom end of it in a drop of , in this case , urine .
the fluid wicks its way into those chambers at the top .
the brown color indicates the amount of glucose in the urine ,
the blue color indicates the amount of protein in the urine .
and the combination of those two
is a first order shot at a number of useful things that you want .
so , this is an example of a device made from a simple piece of paper .
now , how simple can you make the production ?
why do we choose paper ?
there 's an example of the same thing on a finger , showing you basically what it looks like .
one reason for using paper is that it 's everywhere .
we have made these kinds of devices using napkins and toilet paper and wraps , and all kinds of stuff .
so , the production capability is there .
the second is , you can put lots and lots of tests in a very small place .
i 'll show you in a moment that the stack of paper there would probably hold something like 100,000 tests , something of that kind .
and then finally , a point that you don 't think of so much in developed world medicine : it eliminates sharps .
and what sharps means is needles , things that stick .
if you 've taken a sample of someone 's blood and the someone might have hepatitis c , you don 't want to make a mistake and stick it in you .
it just -- you don 't want to do that .
so , how do you dispose of that ? it 's a problem everywhere .
and here you simply burn it .
so , it 's a sort of a practical approach to starting on things .
now , you say , " if paper is a good idea , other people have surely thought of it . "
and the answer is , of course , yes .
those half of you , roughly , who are women , at some point may have had a pregnancy test .
and the most common of these is in a device that looks like the thing on the left .
it 's something called a lateral flow immunoassay .
in that particular test , urine either , containing a hormone called hcg , does or does not flow across a piece of paper .
and there are two bars . one bar indicates that the test is working ,
and if the second bar shows up , you 're pregnant .
this is a terrific kind of test in a binary world ,
and the nice thing about pregnancy is either you are pregnant or you 're not pregnant .
you 're not partially pregnant or thinking about being pregnant or something of that sort .
so , it works very well there ,
but it doesn 't work very well when you need more quantitative information .
there are also dipsticks ,
but if you look at the dipsticks , they 're for another kind of urine analysis .
there are an awful lot of colors and things like that .
what do you actually do about that in a difficult circumstance ?
so , the approach that we started with is to ask : is it really practical to make things of this sort ?
and that problem is now , in a purely engineering way , solved .
and the procedure that we have is simply to start with paper .
you run it through a new kind of printer called a wax printer .
the wax printer does what looks like printing .
it is printing . you put that on , you warm it a little bit ,
the wax prints through so it absorbs into the paper ,
and you end up with the device that you want .
the printers cost 800 bucks now .
they 'll make , we estimate that if you were to run them 24 hours a day they 'd make about 10 million tests a year .
so , it 's a solved problem , that particular problem is solved .
and there is an example of the kind of thing that you see .
that 's on a piece of 8 by 12 paper .
that takes about two seconds to make .
and so i regard that as done .
there is a very important issue here , which is that because it 's a printer , a color printer , it prints colors . that 's what color printers do .
i 'll show you in a moment , that 's actually quite useful .
now , the next question that you would like to ask is : what would you like to measure ? what would you like to analyze ?
and the thing which you 'd most like to analyze , we 're a fair distance from .
it 's what 's called " fever of undiagnosed origin . "
someone comes into the clinic , they have a fever , they feel bad . what do they have ?
do they have t.b. ? do they have aids ?
do they have a common cold ?
the triage problem . that 's a hard problem for reasons that i won 't go through .
there are an awful lot of things that you 'd like to distinguish among .
but then there are a series of things : aids , hepatitis , malaria , tb , others
and simpler ones , such as guidance of treatment .
now even that 's more complicated than you think .
a friend of mine works in transcultural psychiatry ,
and he is interested in the question of why people do and don 't take their meds .
so , dapsone , or something like that , you have to take it for a while .
he has a wonderful story of talking to a villager in india
and saying , " have you taken your dapsone ? " " yes . "
" have you taken it every day ? " " yes . " " have you taken if for a month ? " " yes . "
what the guy actually meant was that he 'd fed a 30-day dose of dapsone to his dog , that morning .
he was telling the truth . because in a different culture , the dog is a surrogate for you , you know , " today , " " this month , " " since the rainy season " -- there are lots of opportunities for misunderstanding ,
and so an issue here is to , in some cases , to figure out how to deal with matters that seem uninteresting , like compliance .
now , take a look at what a typical test looks like .
prick a finger , you get some blood , about 50 microliters .
that 's about all you 're going to get ,
because you can 't use the usual sort of systems .
you can 't manipulate it very well , although i 'll show something about that in a moment .
so , you take the drop of blood , no further manipulations ,
you put it on a little device ,
the device filters out the blood cells , lets the serum go through , and you get a series of colors down in the bottom there .
and the colors indicate " disease " or " normal . "
but even that 's complicated ,
because to you , to me , colors might indicate " normal , "
but , after all , we 're all suffering from probably an excess of education .
what you do about something which requires quantitative analysis ?
and so the solution that we and many other people are thinking about there , and at this point there is a dramatic flourish , and out comes the universal solution to everything these days , which is a cell phone . in this particular case , a camera phone .
they 're everywhere , six billion a month in india .
and the idea is that what one does , is to take the device ,
you dip it , you develop the color ,
you take a picture , the picture goes to a central laboratory .
you don 't have to send out a doctor ,
you send out somebody who can just take the sample ,
and in the clinic either a doctor , or ideally a computer in this case , does the analysis .
turns out to work actually quite well , particularly when your color printer has printed the color bars that indicate how things work .
so , my view of the health care worker of the future is not a doctor , but is an 18-year-old , otherwise unemployed , who has two things : he has a backpack full of these tests ,
and a lancet to occasionally take a blood sample , and an ak-47 .
and these are the things that get him through his day .
there 's another very interesting connection here ,
and that is that what one wants to do is to pass through useful information over what is generally a pretty awful telephone system .
it turns out there 's an enormous amount of information already available on that subject , which is the mars rover problem .
how do you get back an accurate view of the color on mars if you have a really terrible bandwidth to do it with ?
and the answer is not complicated but it 's one which i don 't want to go through here , other than to say that the communication systems for doing this are really pretty well understood .
also , a fact which you may not know is that the compute capability of this thing is not so different from the compute capability of your desktop computer .
this is a fantastic device which is only beginning to be tapped .
i don 't know whether the idea of one computer , one child makes any sense . here 's the computer of the future ,
because this screen is already there and they 're ubiquitous .
all right now let me show you just a little bit about advanced devices .
and we 'll start by posing a little problem .
what you see here is another centimeter-sized device ,
and the different colors are different colors of dye .
and you notice something which might strike you as a little bit interesting , which is the yellow seems to disappear , get through the blue , and then get through the red .
how does that happen ? how do you make something flow through something ?
and , of course the answer is , " you don 't . "
you make it flow under and over .
but now the question is : how do you make it flow under and over in a piece of paper ?
the answer is that what you do , and the details are not terribly important here , is to make something more elaborate : you take several different layers of paper , each one containing its own little fluid system , and you separate them by pieces of , literally , double-sided carpet tape , the stuff you use to stick the carpets onto the floor .
and the fluid will flow from one layer into the next .
it distributes itself , flows through further holes , distributes itself .
and what you see , at the lower right-hand side there , is a sample in which a single sample of blood has been put on the top , and it has gone through and distributed itself into these 16 holes on the bottom , in a piece of paper -- basically it looks like a chip , two pieces of paper thick .
and in this particular case we were just interested in the replicability of that .
but that is , in principle , the way you solve the " fever of unexplained origin " problem ,
because each one of those spots then becomes a test for a particular set of markers of disease ,
and this will work in due course .
here is an example of a slightly more complicated device .
there 's the chip .
you dip in a corner . the fluid goes into the center .
it distributes itself out into these various wells or holes , and turns color ,
and all done with paper and carpet tape .
so , i think it 's as low-cost as we 're likely to be able to come up and make things .
now , i have one last , two last little stories to tell you , in finishing off this business .
this is one : one of the things that one does occasionally need to do is to separate blood cells from serum .
and the question was , here we do it by taking a sample ,
we put it in a centrifuge ,
we spin it , and you get blood cells out . terrific .
what happens if you don 't have an electricity , and a centrifuge , and whatever ?
and we thought for a while of how you might do this
and the way , in fact , you do it is what 's shown here .
you get an eggbeater , which is everywhere , and you saw off a blade ,
and then you take tubing , and you stick it on that . you put the blood in , you spin it --
somebody sits there and spins it .
it works really , really well .
and we sat down , we did the physics of eggbeaters and self-aligning tubes and all the rest of that kind of thing , sent it off to a journal .
we were very proud of this , particularly the title , which was " eggbeater as centrifuge . "
and we sent it off , and by return mail it came back .
i called up the editor and i said , " what 's going on ? how is this possible ? "
the editor said , with enormous disdain , " i read this .
and we 're not going to publish it , because we only publish science . "
and it 's an important issue because it means that we have to , as a society , think about what we value .
and if it 's just papers and phys. rev. letters , we 've got a problem .
here is another example of something which is --
this is a little spectrophotometer .
it measures the absorption of light in a sample
the neat thing about this is , you have light source that flickers on and off at about 1,000 hertz ,
another light source that detects that light at 1,000 hertz ,
and so you can run this system in broad daylight .
it performs about equivalently to a system that 's in the order of 100,000 dollars . it costs 50 dollars . we can probably make it for 50 cents , if we put our mind to it .
why doesn 't somebody do it ? and the answer is , " how do you make a profit in a capitalist system , doing that ? "
interesting problem .
so , let me finish by saying that we 've thought about this as a kind of engineering problem .
and we 've asked : what is the scientific unifying idea here ?
and we 've decided that we should think about this not so much in terms of cost , but in terms of simplicity .
simplicity is a neat word . and you 've got to think about what simplicity means .
i know what it is but i don 't actually know what it means .
so , i actually was interested enough in this to put together several groups of people .
and the most recent involved a couple of people at mit , one of them being an exceptionally bright kid who is one of the very few people i would think of who 's an authentic genius .
we all struggled for an entire day to think about simplicity .
and i want to give you the answer of this deep scientific thought .
so , in a sense , you get what you pay for .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / rory _ stewart _ time _ to _ end _ the _ war _ in _ afghanistan.html
british mp rory stewart walked across afghanistan after 9 / 11 , talking with citizens and warlords alike . now , a decade later , he asks : why are western and coalition forces still fighting there ? he shares lessons from past military interventions that worked -- bosnia , for instance -- and shows that humility and local expertise are the keys to success .
foreign policy , global issues , military , peace , politics , war
1196
rory stewart : time to end the war in afghanistan
the question today is not : why did we invade afghanistan ?
the question is : why are we still in afghanistan one decade later ?
why are we spending $ 135 billion ?
why have we got 130,000 troops on the ground ?
why were more people killed last month than in any preceding month of this conflict ?
how has this happened ?
the last 20 years has been the age of intervention , and afghanistan is simply one act in a five-act tragedy .
we came out of the end of the cold war in despair .
we faced rwanda ; we faced bosnia , and then we rediscovered our confidence .
in the third act , we went into bosnia and kosovo and we seemed to succeed .
in the fourth act , with our hubris , our overconfidence developing , we invaded iraq and afghanistan ,
and in the fifth act , we plunged into a humiliating mess .
so the question is : what are we doing ?
why are we still stuck in afghanistan ?
and the answer , of course , that we keep being given is as follows : we 're told that we went into afghanistan because of 9 / 11 , and that we remain there because the taliban poses an existential threat to global security .
in the words of president obama , " if the taliban take over again , they will invite back al-qaeda , who will try to kill as many of our people as they possibly can . " the story that we 're told is that there was a " light footprint " initially -- in other words , that we ended up in a situation where we didn 't have enough troops , we didn 't have enough resources , that afghans were frustrated --
they felt there wasn 't enough progress and economic development and security , and therefore the taliban came back --
that we responded in 2005 and 2006 with troop deployments , but we still didn 't put enough troops on the ground .
and that it wasn 't until 2009 , when president obama signed off on a surge , that we finally had , in the words of secretary clinton , " the strategy , the leadership and the resources . "
so , as the president now reassures us , we are on track to achieve our goals .
all of this is wrong .
every one of those statements is wrong .
afghanistan does not pose an existential threat to global security .
it is extremely unlikely the taliban would ever be able to take over the country -- they simply don 't have a conventional military option .
and even if they were able to do so , even if i 'm wrong , it 's extremely unlikely the taliban would invite back al-qaeda .
from the taliban 's point of view , that was their number one mistake last time .
if they hadn 't invited back al-qaeda , they would still be in power today .
and even if i 'm wrong about those two things , even if they were able to take back the country , even if they were to invite back al-qaeda , it 's extremely unlikely that al-qaeda would significantly enhance its ability to harm the united states or harm europe .
because this isn 't the 1990s anymore .
if the al-qaeda base was to be established near ghazni , we would hit them very hard , and it would be very , very difficult for the taliban to protect them .
furthermore , it 's simply not true that what went wrong in afghanistan is the light footprint .
in my experience , in fact , the light footprint was extremely helpful .
and these troops that we brought in -- it 's a great picture of david beckham there on the sub-machine gun -- made the situation worse , not better .
when i walked across afghanistan in the winter of 2001-2002 , what i saw was scenes like this .
a girl , if you 're lucky , in the corner of a dark room -- lucky to be able to look at the koran .
but in those early days when we 're told we didn 't have enough troops and enough resources , we made a lot of progress in afghanistan .
within a few months , there were two and a half million more girls in school .
in sangin where i was sick in 2002 , the nearest health clinic was within three days walk .
today , there are 14 health clinics in that area alone .
there was amazing improvements .
we went from almost no afghans having mobile telephones during the taliban to a situation where , almost overnight , three million afghans had mobile telephones .
and we had progress in the free media . we had progress in elections -- all of this with the so-called light footprint .
but when we began to bring more money , when we began to invest more resources , things got worse , not better . how ?
well first see , if you put 125 billion dollars a year into a country like afghanistan where the entire revenue of the afghan state is one billion dollars a year , you drown everything .
it 's not simply corruption and waste that you create ; you essentially replace the priorities of the afghan government , the elected afghan government , with the micromanaging tendencies of foreigners on short tours with their own priorities .
and the same is true for the troops .
when i walked across afghanistan , i stayed with people like this .
this is commandant haji malem mohsin khan of kamenj .
commandant haji malem mohsin khan of kamenj was a great host .
he was very generous , like many of the afghans i stayed with .
but he was also considerably more conservative , considerably more anti-foreign , considerably more islamist than we 'd like to acknowledge .
this man , for example , mullah mustafa , tried to shoot me .
and the reason i 'm looking a little bit perplexed in this photograph is i was somewhat frightened , and i was too afraid on this occasion to ask him , having run for an hour through the desert and taken refuge in this house , why he had turned up and wanted to have his photograph taken with me .
but 18 months later , i asked him why he had tried to shoot me .
and mullah mustafa -- he 's the man with the pen and paper -- explained that the man sitting immediately to the left as you look at the photograph , nadir shah had bet him that he couldn 't hit me .
now this is not to say afghanistan is a place full of people like mullah mustafa .
it 's not ; it 's a wonderful place full of incredible energy and intelligence .
but it is a place where the putting-in of the troops has increased the violence rather than decreased it .
2005 , anthony fitzherbert , an agricultural engineer , could travel through helmand , could stay in nad ali , sangin and ghoresh , which are now the names of villages where fighting is taking place .
today , he could never do that .
so the idea that we deployed the troops to respond to the taliban insurgency is mistaken .
rather than preceding the insurgency , the taliban followed the troop deployment ,
and as far as i 'm concerned , the troop deployment caused their return .
now is this a new idea ?
no , there have been any number of people saying this over the last seven years .
i ran a center at harvard from 2008 to 2010 ,
and there were people like michael semple there who speak afghan languages fluently , who 've traveled to almost every district in the country .
andrew wilder , for example , born on the pakistan-iranian border , served his whole life in pakistan and afghanistan .
paul fishstein who began working there in 1978 -- worked for save the children , ran the afghan research and evaluation unit .
these are people who were able to say consistently that the increase in development aid was making afghanistan less secure , not more secure -- that the counter-insurgency strategy was not working and would not work .
and yet , nobody listened to them .
instead , there was a litany of astonishing optimism .
beginning in 2004 , every general came in saying , " i 've inherited a dismal situation , but finally i have the right resources and the correct strategy , which will deliver , " in general barno 's word in 2004 , the " decisive year . "
well guess what ? it didn 't .
but it wasn 't sufficient to prevent general abuzaid saying that he had the strategy and the resources to deliver , in 2005 , the " decisive year . "
or general david richards to come in 2006 and say he had the strategy and the resources to deliver the " crunch year . "
or in 2007 , the norwegian deputy foreign minister , espen eide , to say that that would deliver the " decisive year . "
or in 2008 , major general champoux to come in and say he would deliver the " decisive year . "
or in 2009 , my great friend , general stanley mcchrystal , who said that he was " knee-deep in the decisive year . "
or in 2010 , the u.k. foreign secretary , david miliband , who said that at last we would deliver the " decisive year . "
and you 'll be delighted to hear in 2011 , today , that guido westerwelle , the german foreign minister , assures us that we are in the " decisive year . "
how do we allow any of this to happen ?
well the answer , of course , is , if you spend 125 billion or 130 billion dollars a year in a country , you co-opt almost everybody . even the aid agencies , who begin to receive an enormous amount of money from the u.s. and the european governments to build schools and clinics , are somewhat disinclined to challenge the idea that afghanistan is an existential threat to global security .
they 're worried , in other words , that if anybody believes that it wasn 't such a threat -- oxfam , save the children wouldn 't get the money to build their hospitals and schools .
it 's also very difficult to confront a general with medals on his chest .
it 's very difficult for a politician , because you 're afraid that many lives have been lost in vain .
you feel deep , deep guilt .
you exaggerate your fears ,
and you 're terrified about the humiliation of defeat .
what is the solution to this ?
well the solution to this is we need to find a way that people like michael semple , or those other people , who are telling the truth , who know the country , who 've spent 30 years on the ground -- and most importantly of all , the missing component of this -- afghans themselves , who understand what is going on .
we need to somehow get their message to the policymakers .
and this is very difficult to do because of our structures .
the first thing we need to change is the structures of our government .
very , very sadly , our foreign services , the united nations , the military in these countries have very little idea of what 's going on .
the average british soldier is on a tour of only six months ; italian soldiers , on tours of four months ; the american military , on tours of 12 months .
diplomats are locked in embassy compounds .
when they go out , they travel in these curious armored vehicles
with these somewhat threatening security teams who ready 24 hours in advance who say you can only stay on the ground for an hour .
in the british embassy in afghanistan in 2008 , an embassy of 350 people , there were only three people who could speak dari , the main language of afghanistan , at a decent level .
and there was not a single pashto speaker .
in the afghan section in london responsible for governing afghan policy on the ground , i was told last year that there was not a single staff member of the foreign office in that section who had ever served on a posting in afghanistan .
so we need to change that institutional culture .
and i could make the same points about the united states and the united nations .
secondly , we need to aim off of the optimism of the generals . we need to make sure that we 're a little bit suspicious , that we understand that optimism is in the dna of the military ,
that we don 't respond to it with quite as much alacrity .
and thirdly , we need to have some humility .
we need to begin from the position that our knowledge , our power , our legitimacy is limited .
this doesn 't mean that intervention around the world is a disaster .
it isn 't .
bosnia and kosovo were signal successes , great successes .
today when you go to bosnia it is almost impossible to believe that what we saw in the early 1990s happened .
it 's almost impossible to believe the progress we 've made since 1994 .
refugee return , which the united nations high commission for refugees thought would be extremely unlikely , has largely happened .
a million properties have been returned .
borders between the bosniak territory and the bosnian-serb territory have calmed down .
the national army has shrunk .
the crime rates in bosnia today are lower than they are in sweden .
this has been done by an incredible , principled effort by the international community , and , of course , above all , by bosnians themselves .
but you need to look at context .
and this is what we 've lost in afghanistan and iraq .
you need to understand that in those places what really mattered was , firstly , the role of tudman and milosevic in coming to the agreement , and then the fact those men went , that the regional situation improved , that the european union could offer bosnia something extraordinary : the chance to be part of a new thing , a new club , a chance to join something bigger .
and finally , we need to understand that in bosnia and kosovo , a lot of the secret of what we did , a lot of the secret of our success , was our humility -- was the tentative nature of our engagement .
we criticized people a lot in bosnia for being quite slow to take on war criminals .
we criticized them for being quite slow to return refugees .
but that slowness , that caution , the fact that president clinton initially said that american troops would only be deployed for a year , turned out to be a strength , and it helped us to put our priorities right .
one of the saddest things about our involvement in afghanistan is that we 've got our priorities out of sync .
we 're not matching our resources to our priorities .
because if what we 're interested in is terrorism , pakistan is far more important than afghanistan .
if what we 're interested in is regional stability , egypt is far more important .
if what we 're worried about is poverty and development , sub-saharan africa is far more important .
this doesn 't mean that afghanistan doesn 't matter , but that it 's one of 40 countries in the world with which we need to engage .
so if i can finish with a metaphor for intervention , what we need to think of is something like mountain rescue .
why mountain rescue ?
because when people talk about intervention , they imagine that some scientific theory -- the rand corporation goes around counting 43 previous insurgencies producing mathematical formula saying you need one trained counter-insurgent for every 20 members of the population .
this is the wrong way of looking at it .
you need to look at it in the way that you look at mountain rescue .
when you 're doing mountain rescue , you don 't take a doctorate in mountain rescue , you look for somebody who knows the terrain .
it 's about context .
you understand that you can prepare , but the amount of preparation you can do is limited --
you can take some water , you can have a map , you can have a pack .
but what really matters is two kinds of problems -- problems that occur on the mountain which you couldn 't anticipate , such as , for example , ice on a slope , but which you can get around , and problems which you couldn 't anticipate and which you can 't get around , like a sudden blizzard or an avalanche or a change in the weather .
and the key to this is a guide who has been on that mountain , in every temperature , at every period --
a guide who , above all , knows when to turn back , who doesn 't press on relentlessly when conditions turn against them .
what we look for in firemen , in climbers , in policemen , and what we should look for in intervention , is intelligent risk takers -- not people who plunge blind off a cliff , not people who jump into a burning room , but who weigh their risks , weigh their responsibilities .
because the worst thing we have done in afghanistan is this idea that failure is not an option .
it makes failure invisible , inconceivable and inevitable .
and if we can resist this crazy slogan , we shall discover -- in egypt , in syria , in libya , and anywhere else we go in the world -- that if we can often do much less than we pretend , we can do much more than we fear .
thank you . thank you very much .
thank you . thank you very much .
thank you . thank you . thank you .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you .
bruno giussani : rory , you mentioned libya at the end .
just briefly , what 's your take on the current events there and the intervention ?
rory stewart : okay , i think libya poses the classic problem .
the problem in libya is that we are always pushing for the black or white .
we imagine there are only two choices : either full engagement and troop deployment or total isolation .
and we are always being tempted up to our neck .
we put our toes in and we go up to our neck .
what we should have done in libya is we should have stuck to the u.n. resolution .
we should have limited ourselves very , very strictly to the protection of the civilian population in benghazi .
we could have done that .
we set up a no-fly zone within 48 hours because gaddafi had no planes within 48 hours .
instead of which , we 've allowed ourselves to be tempted towards regime change .
in doing so , we 've destroyed our credibility with the security council , which means it 's very difficult to get a resolution on syria , and we 're setting ourselves up again for failure .
once more , humility , limits , honesty , realistic expectations and we could have achieved something to be proud of .
bg : rory , thank you very much .
rs : thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / nate _ silver _ on _ race _ and _ politics.html
nate silver has answers to controversial questions about race in politics : did obama 's race hurt his votes in some places ? stats and myths collide in this fascinating talk that ends with a remarkable insight on how town planning can promote tolerance .
cities , politics , race , statistics , urban planning
521
nate silver : does race affect votes ?
i want to talk about the election .
for the first time in the united states , a predominantly white group of voters voted for an african-american candidate for president .
and in fact barack obama did quite well .
he won 375 electoral votes .
and he won about 70 million popular votes more than any other presidential candidate -- of any race , of any party -- in history .
if you compare how obama did against how john kerry had done four years earlier -- democrats really like seeing this transition here , where almost every state becomes bluer , becomes more democratic -- even states obama lost , like out west ,
those states became more blue .
in the south , in the northeast , almost everywhere but with a couple of exceptions here and there .
one exception is in massachusetts .
that was john kerry 's home state .
no big surprise , obama couldn 't do better than kerry there .
or in arizona , which is john mccain 's home ,
obama didn 't have much improvement .
but there is also this part of the country , kind of in the middle region here .
this kind of arkansas , tennessee , oklahoma , west virginia region .
now if you look at ' 96 , bill clinton -- the last democrat to actually win -- how he did in ' 96 , you see real big differences in this part of the country right here , the kind of appalachians , ozarks , highlands region , as i call it :
20 or 30 point swings from how bill clinton did in ' 96 to how obama did in 2008 .
yes bill clinton was from arkansas , but these are very , very profound differences .
so , when we think about parts of the country like arkansas , you know .
there is a book written called , " what 's the matter with kansas ? "
but really the question here -- obama did relatively well in kansas .
he lost badly but every democrat does .
he lost no worse than most people do .
but yeah , what 's the matter with arkansas ?
and when we think of arkansas we tend to have pretty negative connotations .
we think of a bunch of rednecks , quote , unquote , with guns .
and we think people like this probably don 't want to vote for people who look like this and are named barack obama .
we think it 's a matter of race . and is this fair ?
are we kind of stigmatizing people from arkansas , and this part of the country ?
and the answer is : it is at least partially fair .
we know that race was a factor , and the reason why we know that is because we asked those people .
actually we didn 't ask them , but when they conducted exit polls in every state , in 37 states , out of the 50 , they asked a question , that was pretty direct , about race .
they asked this question .
in deciding your vote for president today , was the race of the candidate a factor ?
we 're looking for people that said , " yes , race was a factor ; moreover it was an important factor , in my decision , "
and people who voted for john mccain as a result of that factor , maybe in combination with other factors , and maybe alone .
we 're looking for this behavior among white voters or , really , non-black voters .
so you see big differences in different parts of the country on this question .
in louisiana , about one in five white voters said , " yes , one of the big reasons why i voted against barack obama is because he was an african-american . "
if those people had voted for obama , even half of them , obama would have won louisiana safely .
same is true with , i think , all of these states you see on the top of the list .
meanwhile , california , new york , we can say , " oh we 're enlightened " but you know , certainly a much lower incidence of this admitted , i suppose , manifestation of racially-based voting .
here is the same data on a map .
you kind of see the relationship between the redder states of where more people responded and said , " yes , barack obama 's race was a problem for me . "
you see , comparing the map to ' 96 , you see an overlap here .
this really seems to explain why barack obama did worse in this one part of the country .
so we have to ask why .
is racism predictable in some way ?
is there something driving this ?
is it just about some weird stuff that goes on in arkansas that we don 't understand , and kentucky ?
or are there more systematic factors at work ?
and so we can look at a bunch of different variables .
these are things that economists and political scientists look at all the time -- things like income , and religion , education .
which of these seem to drive this manifestation of racism in this big national experiment we had on november 4th ?
and there are a couple of these that have strong predictive relationships , one of which is education ,
where you see the states with the fewest years of schooling per adult are in red , and you see this part of the country , the kind of appalachians region , is less educated . it 's just a fact .
and you see the relationship there with the racially-based voting patterns .
the other variable that 's important is the type of neighborhood that you live in .
states that are more rural -- even to some extent of the states like new hampshire and maine -- they exhibit a little bit of this racially-based voting against barack obama .
so it 's the combination of these two things : it 's education and the type of neighbors that you have , which we 'll talk about more in a moment .
and the thing about states like arkansas and tennessee is that they 're both very rural , and they are educationally impoverished .
so yes , racism is predictable .
these things , among maybe other variables , but these things seem to predict it .
we 're going to drill down a little bit more now , into something called the general social survey .
this is conducted by the university of chicago every other year .
and they ask a series of really interesting questions .
in 2000 they had particularly interesting questions about racial attitudes .
one simple question they asked is , " does anyone of the opposite race live in your neighborhood ? "
we can see in different types of communities that the results are quite different .
in cites , about 80 percent of people have someone whom they consider a neighbor of another race ,
but in rural communities , only about 30 percent .
probably because if you live on a farm , you might not have a lot of neighbors , period .
but nevertheless , you 're not having a lot of interaction with people who are unlike you .
so what we 're going to do now is take the white people in the survey and split them between those who have black neighbors -- or , really , some neighbor of another race -- and people who have only white neighbors .
and we see in some variables in terms of political attitudes , not a lot of difference .
this was eight years ago , some people were more republican back then .
but you see democrats versus republican , not a big difference based on who your neighbors are .
and even some questions about race -- for example affirmative action , which is kind of a political question , a policy question about race , if you will --
not much difference here .
affirmative action is not very popular frankly , with white voters , period .
but people with black neighbors and people with mono-racial neighborhoods feel no differently about it really .
but if you probe a bit deeper and get a bit more personal if you will , " do you favor a law banning interracial marriage ? "
there is a big difference .
people who don 't have neighbors of a different race are about twice as likely to oppose interracial marriage as people who do .
just based on who lives in your immediate neighborhood around you .
and likewise they asked , not in 2000 , but in the same survey in 1996 , " would you not vote for a qualified black president ? "
you see people without neighbors who are african-american who were much more likely to say , " that would give me a problem . "
so it 's really not even about urban versus rural .
it 's about who you live with .
racism is predictable . and it 's predicted by interaction or lack thereof with people unlike you , people of other races .
so if you want to address it , the goal is to facilitate interaction with people of other races .
i have a couple of very obvious , i suppose , ideas for maybe how to do that .
i 'm a big fan of cities .
especially if we have cites that are diverse and sustainable , and can support people of different ethnicities and different income groups .
i think cities facilitate more of the kind of networking , the kind of casual interaction than you might have on a daily basis .
but also not everyone wants to live in a city , certainly not a city like new york .
so we can think more about things like street grids .
this is the neighborhood where i grew up in east lansing , michigan .
it 's a traditional midwestern community , which means you have real grid .
you have real neighborhoods and real trees , and real streets you can walk on .
and you interact a lot with your neighbors -- people you like , people you might not know .
and as a result it 's a very tolerant community , which is different , i think , than something like this , which is in schaumburg , illinois ,
where every little set of houses has their own cul-de-sac and drive-through starbucks and stuff like that .
i think that actually this type of urban design , which became more prevalent in the 1970s and 1980s -- i think there is a relationship between that and the country becoming more conservative under ronald reagan .
but also here is another idea we have -- is an intercollegiate exchange program where you have students going from new york abroad .
but frankly there are enough differences within the country now where maybe you can take a bunch of kids from nyu , have them go study for a semester at the university of arkansas , and vice versa . do it at the high school level .
literally there are people who might be in school in arkansas or tennessee and might never interact in a positive affirmative way with someone from another part of the country , or of another racial group .
i think part of the education variable we talked about before is the networking experience you get when you go to college where you do get a mix of people that you might not interact with otherwise .
but the point is , this is all good news ,
because when something is predictable , it is what i call designable .
you can start thinking about solutions to solving that problem ,
even if the problem is pernicious and as intractable as racism .
if we understand the root causes of the behavior and where it manifests itself and where it doesn 't , we can start to design solutions to it .
so that 's all i have to say . thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / bryan _ stevenson _ we _ need _ to _ talk _ about _ an _ injustice.html
in an engaging and personal talk -- with cameo appearances from his grandmother and rosa parks -- human rights lawyer bryan stevenson shares some hard truths about america 's justice system , starting with a massive imbalance along racial lines : a third of the country 's black male population has been incarcerated at some point in their lives . these issues , which are wrapped up in america 's unexamined history , are rarely talked about with this level of candor , insight and persuasiveness .
crime , culture , global issues , law
1378
bryan stevenson : we need to talk about an injustice
well this is a really extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time in jails , in prisons , on death row .
i spend most of my time in very low-income communities in the projects and places where there 's a great deal of hopelessness .
and being here at ted and seeing the stimulation , hearing it , has been very , very energizing to me .
and one of the things that 's emerged in my short time here is that ted has an identity .
and you can actually say things here that have impacts around the world .
and sometimes when it comes through ted , it has meaning and power that it doesn 't have when it doesn 't .
and i mention that because i think identity is really important .
and we 've had some fantastic presentations .
and i think what we 've learned is that , if you 're a teacher your words can be meaningful , but if you 're a compassionate teacher , they can be especially meaningful .
if you 're a doctor you can do some good things , but if you 're a caring doctor you can do some other things .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
and i didn 't learn about this actually practicing law and doing the work that i do .
i actually learned about this from my grandmother .
i grew up in a house that was the traditional african american home that was dominated by a matriarch , and that matriarch was my grandmother .
she was tough , she was strong , she was powerful .
she was the end of every argument in our family .
she was the beginning of a lot of arguments in our family .
she was the daughter of people who were actually enslaved .
her parents were born in slavery in virginia in the 1840 's .
she was born in the 1880 's and the experience of slavery very much shaped the way she saw the world .
and my grandmother was tough , but she was also loving .
when i would see her as a little boy , she 'd come up to me and she 'd give me these hugs .
and she 'd squeeze me so tight i could barely breathe and then she 'd let me go .
and an hour or two later , if i saw her , she 'd come over to me and she 'd say , " bryan , do you still feel me hugging you ? " and if i said , " no , " she 'd assault me again , and if i said , " yes , " she 'd leave me alone .
and she just had this quality that you always wanted to be near her .
and the only challenge was that she had 10 children .
my mom was the youngest of her 10 kids .
and sometimes when i would go and spend time with her , it would be difficult to get her time and attention .
my cousins would be running around everywhere .
and i remember , when i was about eight or nine years old , waking up one morning , going into the living room , and all of my cousins were running around .
and my grandmother was sitting across the room staring at me .
and at first i thought we were playing a game .
and i would look at her and i 'd smile , but she was very serious .
and after about 15 or 20 minutes of this , she got up and she came across the room and she took me by the hand and she said , " come on , bryan . you and i are going to have a talk . " and i remember this just like it happened yesterday .
i never will forget it .
she took me out back and she said , " bryan , i 'm going to tell you something , but you don 't tell anybody what i tell you . " i said , " okay , mama . " she said , " now you make sure you don 't do that . " i said , " sure . "
then she sat me down and she looked at me and she said , " i want you to know i 've been watching you . "
and she said , " i think you 're special . "
she said , " i think you can do anything you want to do . " i will never forget it .
and then she said , " i just need you to promise me three things , bryan . " i said , " okay , mama . " she said , " the first thing i want you to promise me is that you 'll always love your mom . " she said , " that 's my baby girl , and you have to promise me now you 'll always take care of her . " well i adored my mom , so i said , " yes , mama . i 'll do that . " then she said , " the second thing i want you to promise me is that you 'll always do the right thing even when the right thing is the hard thing . " and i thought about it and i said , " yes , mama . i 'll do that . " then finally she said , " the third thing i want you to promise me is that you 'll never drink alcohol . " well i was nine years old , so i said , " yes , mama . i 'll do that . " i grew up in the country in the rural south , and i have a brother a year older than me and a sister a year younger .
when i was about 14 or 15 , one day my brother came home and he had this six-pack of beer -- i don 't know where he got it -- and he grabbed me and my sister and we went out in the woods .
and we were kind of just out there doing the stuff we crazily did .
and he had a sip of this beer and he gave some to my sister and she had some , and they offered it to me .
i said , " no , no , no . that 's okay . you all go ahead . i 'm not going to have any beer . " my brother said , " come on . we 're doing this today ; you always do what we do .
i had some , your sister had some . have some beer . " i said , " no , i don 't feel right about that . y 'all go ahead . y 'all go ahead . " and then my brother started staring at me .
he said , " what 's wrong with you ? have some beer . " then he looked at me real hard and he said , " oh , i hope you 're not still hung up on that conversation mama had with you . " i said , " well , what are you talking about ? " he said , " oh , mama tells all the grandkids that they 're special . " i was devastated .
and i 'm going to admit something to you .
i 'm going to tell you something i probably shouldn 't .
i know this might be broadcast broadly .
but i 'm 52 years old , and i 'm going to admit to you that i 've never had a drop of alcohol .
i don 't say that because i think that 's virtuous ; i say that because there is power in identity .
when we create the right kind of identity , we can say things to the world around us that they don 't actually believe makes sense .
we can get them to do things that they don 't think they can do .
when i thought about my grandmother , of course she would think all her grandkids were special .
my grandfather was in prison during prohibition .
my male uncles died of alcohol-related diseases .
and these were the things she thought we needed to commit to .
well i 've been trying to say something about our criminal justice system .
this country is very different today than it was 40 years ago .
in 1972 , there were 300,000 people in jails and prisons .
today , there are 2.3 million .
the united states now has the highest rate of incarceration in the world .
we have seven million people on probation and parole .
and mass incarceration , in my judgment , has fundamentally changed our world .
in poor communities , in communities of color there is this despair , there is this hopelessness , that is being shaped by these outcomes .
one out of three black men between the ages of 18 and 30 is in jail , in prison , on probation or parole .
in urban communities across this country -- los angeles , philadelphia , baltimore , washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all young men of color are in jail or prison or on probation or parole .
our system isn 't just being shaped in these ways that seem to be distorting around race , they 're also distorted by poverty .
we have a system of justice in this country that treats you much better if you 're rich and guilty than if you 're poor and innocent .
wealth , not culpability , shapes outcomes .
and yet , we seem to be very comfortable .
the politics of fear and anger have made us believe that these are problems that are not our problems .
we 've been disconnected .
it 's interesting to me .
we 're looking at some very interesting developments in our work .
my state of alabama , like a number of states , actually permanently disenfranchises you if you have a criminal conviction .
right now in alabama 34 percent of the black male population has permanently lost the right to vote .
we 're actually projecting in another 10 years the level of disenfranchisement will be as high as it 's been since prior to the passage of the voting rights act .
and there is this stunning silence .
i represent children .
a lot of my clients are very young .
the united states is the only country in the world where we sentence 13-year-old children to die in prison .
we have life imprisonment without parole for kids in this country .
and we 're actually doing some litigation .
the only country in the world .
i represent people on death row .
it 's interesting , this question of the death penalty .
in many ways , we 've been taught to think that the real question is , do people deserve to die for the crimes they 've committed ?
and that 's a very sensible question .
but there 's another way of thinking about where we are in our identity .
the other way of thinking about it is not , do people deserve to die for the crimes they commit ,
but do we deserve to kill ?
i mean , it 's fascinating .
death penalty in america is defined by error .
for every nine people who have been executed , we 've actually identified one innocent person who 's been exonerated and released from death row .
a kind of astonishing error rate -- one out of nine people innocent .
i mean , it 's fascinating .
in aviation , we would never let people fly on airplanes if for every nine planes that took off one would crash .
but somehow we can insulate ourselves from this problem .
it 's not our problem .
it 's not our burden .
it 's not our struggle .
i talk a lot about these issues .
i talk about race and this question of whether we deserve to kill .
and it 's interesting , when i teach my students about african american history , i tell them about slavery .
i tell them about terrorism , the era that began at the end of reconstruction that went on to world war ii .
we don 't really know very much about it .
but for african americans in this country , that was an era defined by terror .
in many communities , people had to worry about being lynched .
they had to worry about being bombed .
it was the threat of terror that shaped their lives .
and these older people come up to me now and they say , " mr. stevenson , you give talks , you make speeches , you tell people to stop saying we 're dealing with terrorism for the first time in our nation 's history after 9 / 11 . "
they tell me to say , " no , tell them that we grew up with that . "
and that era of terrorism , of course , was followed by segregation and decades of racial subordination and apartheid .
and yet , we have in this country this dynamic where we really don 't like to talk about our problems .
we don 't like to talk about our history .
and because of that , we really haven 't understood what it 's meant to do the things we 've done historically .
we 're constantly running into each other .
we 're constantly creating tensions and conflicts .
we have a hard time talking about race , and i believe it 's because we are unwilling to commit ourselves to a process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people understood that we couldn 't overcome apartheid without a commitment to truth and reconciliation .
in rwanda , even after the genocide , there was this commitment , but in this country we haven 't done that .
i was giving some lectures in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating because one of the scholars stood up after the presentation and said , " well you know it 's deeply troubling to hear what you 're talking about . "
he said , " we don 't have the death penalty in germany .
and of course , we can never have the death penalty in germany . " and the room got very quiet , and this woman said , " there 's no way , with our history , we could ever engage in the systematic killing of human beings .
it would be unconscionable for us to , in an intentional and deliberate way , set about executing people . " and i thought about that .
what would it feel like to be living in a world where the nation state of germany was executing people , especially if they were disproportionately jewish ?
i couldn 't bear it .
it would be unconscionable .
and yet , in this country , in the states of the old south , we execute people -- where you 're 11 times more likely to get the death penalty if the victim is white than if the victim is black , 22 times more likely to get it if the defendant is black and the victim is white -- in the very states where there are buried in the ground the bodies of people who were lynched .
and yet , there is this disconnect .
well i believe that our identity is at risk . that when we actually don 't care about these difficult things , the positive and wonderful things are nonetheless implicated .
we love innovation .
we love technology . we love creativity .
we love entertainment .
but ultimately , those realities are shadowed by suffering , abuse , degradation , marginalization .
and for me , it becomes necessary to integrate the two .
because ultimately we are talking about a need to be more hopeful , more committed , more dedicated to the basic challenges of living in a complex world .
and for me that means spending time thinking and talking about the poor , the disadvantaged , those who will never get to ted .
but thinking about them in a way that is integrated in our own lives .
you know ultimately , we all have to believe things we haven 't seen .
we do . as rational as we are , as committed to intellect as we are .
innovation , creativity , development comes not from the ideas in our mind alone .
they come from the ideas in our mind that are also fueled by some conviction in our heart .
and it 's that mind-heart connection that i believe compels us to not just be attentive to all the bright and dazzly things , but also the dark and difficult things .
vaclav havel , the great czech leader , talked about this .
he said , " when we were in eastern europe and dealing with oppression , we wanted all kinds of things , but mostly what we needed was hope , an orientation of the spirit , a willingness to sometimes be in hopeless places and be a witness . " well that orientation of the spirit is very much at the core of what i believe even ted communities have to be engaged in .
there is no disconnect around technology and design that will allow us to be fully human until we pay attention to suffering , to poverty , to exclusion , to unfairness , to injustice .
now i will warn you that this kind of identity is a much more challenging identity than ones that don 't pay attention to this .
it will get to you .
i had the great privilege , when i was a young lawyer , of meeting rosa parks .
and ms. parks used to come back to montgomery every now and then , and she would get together with two of her dearest friends , these older women , johnnie carr who was the organizer of the montgomery bus boycott -- amazing african american woman -- and virginia durr , a white woman , whose husband , clifford durr , represented dr. king .
and these women would get together and just talk .
and every now and then ms. carr would call me , and she 'd say , " bryan , ms. parks is coming to town . we 're going to get together and talk .
do you want to come over and listen ? " and i 'd say , " yes , ma 'am , i do . " and she 'd say , " well what are you going to do when you get here ? " i said , " i 'm going to listen . "
and i 'd go over there and i would , i would just listen .
it would be so energizing and so empowering .
and one time i was over there listening to these women talk , and after a couple of hours ms. parks turned to me and she said , " now bryan , tell me what the equal justice initiative is .
tell me what you 're trying to do . " and i began giving her my rap .
i said , " well we 're trying to challenge injustice .
we 're trying to help people who have been wrongly convicted .
we 're trying to confront bias and discrimination in the administration of criminal justice .
we 're trying to end life without parole sentences for children .
we 're trying to do something about the death penalty .
we 're trying to reduce the prison population .
we 're trying to end mass incarceration . " i gave her my whole rap , and when i finished she looked at me and she said , " mmm mmm mmm . "
she said , " that 's going to make you tired , tired , tired . " and that 's when ms. carr leaned forward , she put her finger in my face , she said , " that 's why you 've got to be brave , brave , brave . " and i actually believe that the ted community needs to be more courageous .
we need to find ways to embrace these challenges , these problems , the suffering . because ultimately , our humanity depends on everyone 's humanity .
i 've learned very simple things doing the work that i do .
it 's just taught me very simple things .
i 've come to understand and to believe that each of us is more than the worst thing we 've ever done .
i believe that for every person on the planet .
i think if somebody tells a lie , they 're not just a liar .
i think if somebody takes something that doesn 't belong to them , they 're not just a thief .
i think even if you kill someone , you 're not just a killer .
and because of that there 's this basic human dignity that must be respected by law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of this globe , that the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don 't believe that .
i actually think , in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i believe that , despite the fact that it is so dramatic and so beautiful and so inspiring and so stimulating , we will ultimately not be judged by our technology , we won 't be judged by our design , we won 't be judged by our intellect and reason .
ultimately , you judge the character of a society , not by how they treat their rich and the powerful and the privileged , but by how they treat the poor , the condemned , the incarcerated .
because it 's in that nexus that we actually begin to understand truly profound things about who we are .
i sometimes get out of balance . i 'll end with this story .
i sometimes push too hard .
i do get tired , as we all do .
sometimes those ideas get ahead of our thinking in ways that are important .
and i 've been representing these kids who have been sentenced to do these very harsh sentences .
and i go to the jail and i see my client who 's 13 and 14 , and he 's been certified to stand trial as an adult .
i start thinking , well , how did that happen ?
how can a judge turn you into something that you 're not ?
and the judge has certified him as an adult , but i see this kid .
and i was up too late one night and i starting thinking , well gosh , if the judge can turn you into something that you 're not , the judge must have magic power .
yeah , bryan , the judge has some magic power .
you should ask for some of that .
and because i was up too late , wasn 't thinking real straight , i started working on a motion .
and i had a client who was 14 years old , a young , poor black kid .
and i started working on this motion , and the head of the motion was : " motion to try my poor , 14-year-old black male client like a privileged , white 75-year-old corporate executive . " and i put in my motion that there was prosecutorial misconduct and police misconduct and judicial misconduct .
there was a crazy line in there about how there 's no conduct in this county , it 's all misconduct .
and the next morning , i woke up and i thought , now did i dream that crazy motion , or did i actually write it ?
and to my horror , not only had i written it , but i had sent it to court .
a couple months went by , and i had just forgotten all about it .
and i finally decided , oh gosh , i 've got to go to the court and do this crazy case .
and i got into my car and i was feeling really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
and i got in my car and i went to this courthouse .
and i was thinking , this is going to be so difficult , so painful .
and i finally got out of the car and i started walking up to the courthouse .
and as i was walking up the steps of this courthouse , there was an older black man who was the janitor in this courthouse .
when this man saw me , he came over to me and he said , " who are you ? " i said , " i 'm a lawyer . " he said , " you 're a lawyer ? " i said , " yes , sir . "
and this man came over to me and he hugged me .
and he whispered in my ear .
he said , " i 'm so proud of you . " and i have to tell you , it was energizing .
it connected deeply with something in me about identity , about the capacity of every person to contribute to a community , to a perspective that is hopeful .
well i went into the courtroom .
and as soon as i walked inside , the judge saw me coming in .
he said , " mr. stevenson , did you write this crazy motion ? " i said , " yes , sir . i did . " and we started arguing .
and people started coming in because they were just outraged .
i had written these crazy things .
and police officers were coming in and assistant prosecuters and clerk workers .
and before i knew it , the courtroom was filled with people angry that we were talking about race , that we were talking about poverty , that we were talking about inequality .
and out of the corner of my eye , i could see this janitor pacing back and forth .
and he kept looking through the window , and he could hear all of this holler .
he kept pacing back and forth .
and finally , this older black man with this very worried look on his face came into the courtroom and sat down behind me , almost at counsel table .
about 10 minutes later the judge said we would take a break .
and during the break there was a deputy sheriff who was offended that the janitor had come into court .
and this deputy jumped up and he ran over to this older black man .
he said , " jimmy , what are you doing in this courtroom ? " and this older black man stood up and he looked at that deputy and he looked at me and he said , " i came into this courtroom to tell this young man , keep your eyes on the prize , hold on . " i 've come to ted because i believe that many of you understand that the moral arc of the universe is long , but it bends toward justice .
that we cannot be full evolved human beings until we care about human rights and basic dignity .
that all of our survival is tied to the survival of everyone .
that our visions of technology and design and entertainment and creativity have to be married with visions of humanity , compassion and justice .
and more than anything , for those of you who share that , i 've simply come to tell you to keep your eyes on the prize , hold on .
thank you very much .
chris anderson : so you heard and saw an obvious desire by this audience , this community , to help you on your way and to do something on this issue .
other than writing a check , what could we do ?
bs : well there are opportunities all around us .
if you live in the state of california , for example , there 's a referendum coming up this spring where actually there 's going to be an effort to redirect some of the money we spend on the politics of punishment .
for example , here in california we 're going to spend one billion dollars on the death penalty in the next five years -- one billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all homicide cases don 't result in arrest .
56 percent of all rape cases don 't result .
so there 's an opportunity to change that .
and this referendum would propose having those dollars go to law enforcement and safety .
and i think that opportunity exists all around us .
ca : there 's been this huge decline in crime in america over the last three decades .
and part of the narrative of that is sometimes that it 's about increased incarceration rates .
what would you say to someone who believed that ?
bs : well actually the violent crime rate has remained relatively stable .
the great increase in mass incarceration in this country wasn 't really in violent crime categories .
it was this misguided war on drugs .
that 's where the dramatic increases have come in our prison population .
and we got carried away with the rhetoric of punishment .
and so we have three strikes laws that put people in prison forever for stealing a bicycle , for low-level property crimes , rather than making them give those resources back to the people who they victimized .
i believe we need to do more to help people who are victimized by crime , not do less .
and i think our current punishment philosophy does nothing for no one .
and i think that 's the orientation that we have to change .
ca : bryan , you 've struck a massive chord here .
you 're an inspiring person .
thank you so much for coming to ted . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / abraham _ verghese _ a _ doctor _ s _ touch.html
modern medicine is in danger of losing a powerful , old-fashioned tool : human touch . physician and writer abraham verghese describes our strange new world where patients are merely data points , and calls for a return to the traditional one-on-one physical exam .
communication , culture , health , health care , medicine , science
1231
abraham verghese : a doctor 's touch
a few months ago , a 40 year-old woman came to an emergency room in a hospital close to where i live , and she was brought in confused .
her blood pressure was an alarming 230 over 170 .
within a few minutes , she went into cardiac collapse .
she was resuscitated , stabilized , whisked over to a cat scan suite right next to the emergency room , because they were concerned about blood clots in the lung .
and the cat scan revealed no blood clots in the lung , but it showed bilateral , visible , palpable breast masses , breast tumors , that had metastasized widely all over the body .
and the real tragedy was , if you look through her records , she had been seen in four or five other health care institutions in the preceding two years .
four or five opportunities to see the breast masses , touch the breast mass , intervene at a much earlier stage than when we saw her .
ladies and gentlemen , that is not an unusual story .
unfortunately , it happens all the time .
i joke , but i only half joke , that if you come to one of our hospitals missing a limb , no one will believe you till they get a cat scan , mri or orthopedic consult .
i am not a luddite .
i teach at stanford .
i 'm a physician practicing with cutting-edge technology .
but i 'd like to make the case to you in the next 17 minutes that when we shortcut the physical exam , when we lean towards ordering tests instead of talking to and examining the patient , we not only overlook simple diagnoses that can be diagnosed at a treatable , early stage , but we 're losing much more than that .
we 're losing a ritual .
we 're losing a ritual that i believe is transformative , transcendent , and is at the heart of the patient-physician relationship .
this may actually be heresy to say this at ted , but i 'd like to introduce you to the most important innovation , i think , in medicine to come in the next 10 years , and that is the power of the human hand -- to touch , to comfort , to diagnose and to bring about treatment .
i 'd like to introduce you first to this person whose image you may or may not recognize .
this is sir arthur conan doyle .
since we 're in edinburgh , i 'm a big fan of conan doyle .
you might not know that conan doyle went to medical school here in edinburgh , and his character , sherlock holmes , was inspired by sir joseph bell .
joseph bell was an extraordinary teacher by all accounts .
and conan doyle , writing about bell , described the following exchange between bell and his students .
so picture bell sitting in the outpatient department , students all around him , patients signing up in the emergency room and being registered and being brought in .
and a woman comes in with a child , and conan doyle describes the following exchange .
the woman says , " good morning . "
bell says , " what sort of crossing did you have on the ferry from burntisland ? "
she says , " it was good . "
and he says , " what did you do with the other child ? "
she says , " i left him with my sister at leith . "
and he says , " and did you take the shortcut down inverleith row to get here to the infirmary ? "
she says , " i did . "
and he says , " would you still be working at the linoleum factory ? "
and she says , " i am . "
and bell then goes on to explain to the students .
he says , " you see , when she said , ' good morning , ' i picked up her fife accent .
and the nearest ferry crossing from fife is from burntisland .
and so she must have taken the ferry over .
you notice that the coat she 's carrying is too small for the child who is with her , and therefore , she started out the journey with two children , but dropped one off along the way .
you notice the clay on the soles of her feet .
such red clay is not found within a hundred miles of edinburgh , except in the botanical gardens .
and therefore , she took a short cut down inverleith row to arrive here .
and finally , she has a dermatitis on the fingers of her right hand , a dermatitis that is unique to the linoleum factory workers in burntisland . "
and when bell actually strips the patient , begins to examine the patient , you can only imagine how much more he would discern .
and as a teacher of medicine , as a student myself , i was so inspired by that story .
but you might not realize that our ability to look into the body in this simple way , using our senses , is quite recent .
the picture i 'm showing you is of leopold auenbrugger who , in the late 1700s , discovered percussion .
and the story is that leopold auenbrugger was the son of an innkeeper .
and his father used to go down into the basement to tap on the sides of casks of wine to determine how much wine was left and whether to reorder .
and so when auenbrugger became a physician , he began to do the same thing .
he began to tap on the chests of his patients , on their abdomens .
and basically everything we know about percussion , which you can think of as an ultrasound of its day -- organ enlargement , fluid around the heart , fluid in the lungs , abdominal changes -- all of this he described in this wonderful manuscript " inventum novum , " " new invention , " which would have disappeared into obscurity , except for the fact that this physician , corvisart , a famous french physician -- famous only because he was physician to this gentleman -- corvisart repopularized and reintroduced the work .
and it was followed a year or two later by laennec discovering the stethoscope .
laennec , it is said , was walking in the streets of paris and saw two children playing with a stick .
one was scratching at the end of the stick , another child listened at the other end .
and laennec thought this would be a wonderful way to listen to the chest or listen to the abdomen using what he called " the cylinder . "
later he renamed it the stethoscope .
and that is how stethoscope and auscultation was born .
so within a few years , in the late 1800s , early 1900s , all of a sudden , the barber surgeon had given way to the physician who was trying to make a diagnosis .
if you 'll recall , prior to that time , no matter what ailed you , you went to see the barber surgeon who wound up cupping you , bleeding you , purging you .
and , oh yes , if you wanted , he would give you a haircut -- short on the sides , long in the back -- and pull your tooth while he was at it .
he made no attempt at diagnosis .
in fact , some of you might well know that the barber pole , the red and white stripes , represents the blood bandages of the barber surgeon , and the receptacles on either end represent the pots in which the blood was collected .
but the arrival of auscultation and percussion represented a sea change , a moment when physicians were beginning to look inside the body .
and this particular painting , i think , represents the pinnacle , the peak , of that clinical era .
this is a very famous painting : " the doctor " by luke fildes .
luke fildes was commissioned to paint this by tate , who then established the tate gallery .
and tate asked fildes to paint a painting of social importance .
and it 's interesting that fildes picked this topic .
fildes ' oldest son , philip , died at the age of nine on christmas eve after a brief illness .
and fildes was so taken by the physician who held vigil at the bedside for two , three nights , that he decided that he would try and depict the physician in our time -- almost a tribute to this physician .
and hence the painting " the doctor , " a very famous painting .
it 's been on calendars , postage stamps in many different countries .
i 've often wondered , what would fildes have done had he been asked to paint this painting in the modern era , in the year 2011 ?
would he have substituted a computer screen for where he had the patient ?
i 've gotten into some trouble in silicon valley for saying that the patient in the bed has almost become an icon for the real patient who 's in the computer .
i 've actually coined a term for that entity in the computer .
i call it the ipatient .
the ipatient is getting wonderful care all across america .
the real patient often wonders , where is everyone ? when are they going to come by and explain things to me ? who 's in charge ?
there 's a real disjunction between the patient 's perception and our own perceptions as physicians of the best medical care .
i want to show you a picture of what rounds looked like when i was in training .
the focus was around the patient .
we went from bed to bed . the attending physician was in charge .
too often these days , rounds look very much like this , where the discussion is taking place in a room far away from the patient .
the discussion is all about images on the computer , data .
and the one critical piece missing is that of the patient .
now i 've been influenced in this thinking by two anecdotes that i want to share with you .
one had to do with a friend of mine who had a breast cancer , had a small breast cancer detected -- had her lumpectomy in the town in which i lived .
this is when i was in texas .
and she then spent a lot of time researching to find the best cancer center in the world to get her subsequent care .
and she found the place and decided to go there , went there .
which is why i was surprised a few months later to see her back in our own town , getting her subsequent care with her private oncologist .
and i pressed her , and i asked her , " why did you come back and get your care here ? "
and she was reluctant to tell me .
she said , " the cancer center was wonderful .
it had a beautiful facility , giant atrium , valet parking , a piano that played itself , a concierge that took you around from here to there .
but , " she said , " but they did not touch my breasts . "
now you and i could argue that they probably did not need to touch her breasts .
they had her scanned inside out .
they understood her breast cancer at the molecular level ; they had no need to touch her breasts .
but to her , it mattered deeply .
it was enough for her to make the decision to get her subsequent care with her private oncologist who , every time she went , examined both breasts including the axillary tail , examined her axilla carefully , examined her cervical region , her inguinal region , did a thorough exam .
and to her , that spoke of a kind of attentiveness that she needed .
i was very influenced by that anecdote .
i was also influenced by another experience that i had , again , when i was in texas , before i moved to stanford .
i had a reputation as being interested in patients with chronic fatigue .
this is not a reputation you would wish on your worst enemy .
i say that because these are difficult patients .
they have often been rejected by their families , have had bad experiences with medical care and they come to you fully prepared for you to join the long list of people who 's about to disappoint them .
and i learned very early on with my first patient that i could not do justice to this very complicated patient with all the records they were bringing in a new patient visit of 45 minutes .
there was just no way .
and if i tried , i 'd disappoint them .
and so i hit on this method where i invited the patient to tell me the story for their entire first visit , and i tried not to interrupt them .
we know the average american physician interrupts their patient in 14 seconds .
and if i ever get to heaven , it will be because i held my piece for 45 minutes and did not interrupt my patient .
i then scheduled the physical exam for two weeks hence , and when the patient came for the physical , i was able to do a thorough physical , because i had nothing else to do .
i like to think that i do a thorough physical exam , but because the whole visit was now about the physical , i could do an extraordinarily thorough exam .
and i remember my very first patient in that series continued to tell me more history during what was meant to be the physical exam visit .
and i began my ritual .
i always begin with the pulse , then i examine the hands , then i look at the nail beds , then i slide my hand up to the epitrochlear node , and i was into my ritual .
and when my ritual began , this very voluble patient began to quiet down .
and i remember having a very eerie sense that the patient and i had slipped back into a primitive ritual in which i had a role and the patient had a role .
and when i was done , the patient said to me with some awe , " i have never been examined like this before . "
now if that were true , it 's a true condemnation of our health care system , because they had been seen in other places .
i then proceeded to tell the patient , once the patient was dressed , the standard things that the person must have heard in other institutions , which is , " this is not in your head .
this is real .
the good news , it 's not cancer , it 's not tuberculosis , it 's not coccidioidomycosis or some obscure fungal infection .
the bad news is we don 't know exactly what 's causing this , but here 's what you should do , here 's what we should do . "
and i would lay out all the standard treatment options that the patient had heard elsewhere .
and i always felt that if my patient gave up the quest for the magic doctor , the magic treatment and began with me on a course towards wellness , it was because i had earned the right to tell them these things by virtue of the examination .
something of importance had transpired in the exchange .
i took this to my colleagues at stanford in anthropology and told them the same story .
and they immediately said to me , " well you are describing a classic ritual . "
and they helped me understand that rituals are all about transformation .
we marry , for example , with great pomp and ceremony and expense to signal our departure from a life of solitude and misery and loneliness to one of eternal bliss .
i 'm not sure why you 're laughing .
that was the original intent , was it not ?
we signal transitions of power with rituals .
we signal the passage of a life with rituals .
rituals are terribly important .
they 're all about transformation .
well i would submit to you that the ritual of one individual coming to another and telling them things that they would not tell their preacher or rabbi , and then , incredibly on top of that , disrobing and allowing touch -- i would submit to you that that is a ritual of exceeding importance .
and if you shortchange that ritual by not undressing the patient , by listening with your stethoscope on top of the nightgown , by not doing a complete exam , you have bypassed on the opportunity to seal the patient-physician relationship .
i am a writer , and i want to close by reading you a short passage that i wrote that has to do very much with this scene .
i 'm an infectious disease physician , and in the early days of hiv , before we had our medications , i presided over so many scenes like this .
i remember , every time i went to a patient 's deathbed , whether in the hospital or at home , i remember my sense of failure -- the feeling of i don 't know what i have to say ; i don 't know what i can say ; i don 't know what i 'm supposed to do .
and out of that sense of failure , i remember , i would always examine the patient .
i would pull down the eyelids .
i would look at the tongue .
i would percuss the chest . i would listen to the heart .
i would feel the abdomen .
i remember so many patients , their names still vivid on my tongue , their faces still so clear .
i remember so many huge , hollowed out , haunted eyes staring up at me as i performed this ritual .
and then the next day , i would come , and i would do it again .
and i wanted to read you this one closing passage about one patient .
" i recall one patient who was at that point no more than a skeleton encased in shrinking skin , unable to speak , his mouth crusted with candida that was resistant to the usual medications .
when he saw me on what turned out to be his last hours on this earth , his hands moved as if in slow motion .
and as i wondered what he was up to , his stick fingers made their way up to his pajama shirt , fumbling with his buttons .
i realized that he was wanting to expose his wicker-basket chest to me .
it was an offering , an invitation .
i did not decline .
i percussed . i palpated . i listened to the chest .
i think he surely must have known by then that it was vital for me just as it was necessary for him .
neither of us could skip this ritual , which had nothing to do with detecting rales in the lung , or finding the gallop rhythm of heart failure .
no , this ritual was about the one message that physicians have needed to convey to their patients .
although , god knows , of late , in our hubris , we seem to have drifted away .
we seem to have forgotten -- as though , with the explosion of knowledge , the whole human genome mapped out at our feet , we are lulled into inattention , forgetting that the ritual is cathartic to the physician , necessary for the patient -- forgetting that the ritual has meaning and a singular message to convey to the patient .
and the message , which i didn 't fully understand then , even as i delivered it , and which i understand better now is this : i will always , always , always be there .
i will see you through this .
i will never abandon you .
i will be with you through the end . "
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / michael _ shermer _ on _ believing _ strange _ things.html
why do people see the virgin mary on a cheese sandwich or hear demonic lyrics in " stairway to heaven " ? using video and music , skeptic michael shermer shows how we convince ourselves to believe -- and overlook the facts .
culture , entertainment , faith , illusion , religion , science
22
michael shermer on strange beliefs
hey , i am michael shermer , the director of the skeptics society , the publisher of " skeptic " magazine .
we investigate claims of the paranormal , pseudo-science , and fringe groups and cults and claims of all kinds between -- science and pseudo-science and non-science and junk science , voodoo science , pathological science , bad science , non-science and plain old nonsense .
and unless you 've been on mars recently , you know there 's a lot of that out there .
some people call us debunkers , which is kind of a negative term .
but let 's face it -- there 's a lot of bunk , and we are like the bunko squads of the police departments out there , flushing out .
well , we 're sort of like the ralph naders of bad ideas -- trying to replace bad ideas with good ideas .
i 'll show you an example of a bad idea .
i brought this with me .
this was given to us by nbc dateline to test .
it 's the -- it 's produced by the quadro corporation of west virginia .
it 's called the quadro 2000 dowser rod .
this was being sold to high school administrators for 900 dollars a piece .
it 's a piece of plastic with a radio shack antenna attached to it .
you could dowse for all sorts of things , but this particular one was built to dowse for marijuana in students ' lockers .
so the way it works is , you go down the hallway and you see if it tilts toward a particular locker , and then you open the locker .
so it looks something like this .
i 'll show you .
no , it -- well , it has kind of a right-leaning bias .
so , i 'll show -- well , this is science , so we 'll do a controlled experiment .
it 'll go this way for sure .
sir , you want to empty your pockets . please , sir ?
so the question was , can it actually find marijuana in students ' lockers ?
and the answer is , if you open enough of them , yes .
but in science , we have to keep track of the misses , not just the hits .
and that 's probably the key lesson to my short talk here , is that this is how psychics work , astrologers , and tarot card readers and so on .
people remember the hits ; they forget the misses .
in science we have to keep the whole database , and look to see if the number of hits somehow stands out from the total number that you would expect by chance .
in this case , we tested it .
we had two opaque boxes : one with government-approved thc marijuana , and one with nothing .
and it got it 50 percent of the time --
which is exactly what you 'd expect with a coin flip model .
so that 's just a fun little example here of the sorts of things we do .
" skeptic " is the quarterly publication .
each one has a particular theme , like this one is on the future of intelligence .
are people getting smarter or dumber ?
i have an opinion of this myself because of the business i 'm in ,
but , in fact , people , it turns out , are getting smarter .
three iq points per 10 years , going up .
sort of an interesting thing .
with science , don 't think of skepticism as a thing or even science as a thing .
are science and religion compatible ?
it 's like , are science and plumbing compatible ?
these -- they 're just two different things .
science is not a thing . it 's a verb .
it 's a way of thinking about things .
it 's a way of looking for natural explanations for all phenomena .
i mean , what 's more likely : that extraterrestrial intelligences or multi-dimensional beings travel across the vast distances of interstellar space to leave a crop circle in farmer bob 's field in puckerbrush , kansas to promote skeptic.com , our webpage ?
or is it more likely that a reader of " skeptic " did this with photoshop ?
and in all cases we have to ask -- what 's the more likely explanation ?
and before we say something is out of this world , we should first make sure that it 's not in this world .
what 's more likely -- that arnold had a little extraterrestrial help in his run for the governorship ?
or that the " world weekly news " makes stuff up ?
and part of that -- the same theme is expressed nicely here in this sidney harris cartoon .
for those of you in the back , it says here : " then a miracle occurs .
i think you need to be more explicit here in step two . "
this single slide completely dismantles the intelligent design arguments .
there 's nothing more to it than that .
you can say a miracle occurs .
it 's just that it doesn 't explain anything .
it doesn 't offer anything . there 's nothing to test .
it 's the end of the conversation for intelligent design creationists .
whereas -- and it 's true , scientists sometimes throw terms out as linguistic place fillers -- dark energy or dark matter or something like that --
until we figure out what it is , we 'll just call it this --
it 's the beginning of the causal chain for science .
for intelligent design creationists , it 's the end of the chain .
so again , we can ask this : what 's more likely ? are ufos alien spaceships or perceptual cognitive mistakes -- or even fakes ?
this is a ufo shot from my house in altadena , california , looking down over pasadena .
and if it looks a lot like a buick hubcap , it 's because it is .
you don 't even need photoshop ; you don 't need high-tech equipment ; you don 't need computers .
this was shot with a throwaway kodak instamatic camera .
you just have somebody off on the side with a hubcap ready to go .
camera 's ready -- that 's it .
so , although it 's possible that most of these things are fake or illusions or so on and that some of them are real , it 's more likely that all of them are fake , like the crop circles .
on a more serious note , in all of science we 're looking for a balance between data and theory .
in the case of galileo , he had two problems when he turned his telescope to saturn .
first of all , there was no theory of planetary rings .
and second of all , his data was grainy and fuzzy , and he couldn 't quite make out what it was he was looking at .
so he wrote that he had seen -- " i have observed that the furthest planet has three bodies . "
and this is what he ended up concluding that he saw .
so without a theory of planetary rings and with only grainy data , you can 't have a good theory .
and it wasn 't solved until 1655 .
this is christiaan huygens 's book in which he cataloged all the mistakes that people made in trying to figure out what was going on with saturn .
it wasn 't till -- huygens had two things .
he had a good theory of planetary rings and how the solar system operated .
and then , he had better telescopic , more fine-grain data in which he could figure out that as the earth is going around faster -- according to kepler 's laws -- than saturn , then we catch up with it .
and we see the angles of the rings at different angles , there .
and that , in fact , turns out to be true .
the problems with having a theory is that your theory may be loaded with cognitive biases . so one of the problems of explaining why people believe weird things is that we have things on a simple level .
and then i 'll go to more serious ones .
like , we have a tendency to see faces .
this is the face on mars , which was -- in 1976 , where there was a whole movement to get nasa to photograph that area because people thought this was monumental architecture made by martians .
well , it turns out -- here 's the close-up of it from 2001 .
if you squint , you can still see the face .
and when you 're squinting , what you 're doing is you 're turning that from fine-grain to coarse-grain .
and so , you 're reducing the quality of your data .
and if i didn 't tell you what to look for , you 'd still see the face , because we 're programmed by evolution to see faces .
faces are important for us socially .
and , of course , happy faces .
faces of all kinds are easy to see .
you can see the happy face on mars , there .
if astronomers were frogs perhaps they 'd see kermit the frog .
do you see him there ?
little froggy legs .
or if geologists were elephants ?
religious iconography .
discovered by a tennessee baker in 1996 .
he charged five bucks a head to come see the nun bun till he got a cease-and-desist from mother teresa 's lawyer .
here 's our lady of guadalupe and our lady of watsonville , just down the street ,
or is it up the street from here ?
tree bark is particularly good because it 's nice and grainy , branchy , black-and-white splotchy and you can get the pattern-seeking -- humans are pattern-seeking animals .
here 's the virgin mary on the side of a glass window in sao paulo .
now , here 's the virgin mary made her appearance on a cheese sandwich -- which i got to actually hold in a las vegas casino , of course , this being america .
this casino paid 28,500 dollars on ebay for the cheese sandwich .
but who does it really look like , the virgin mary ?
it has that sort of puckered lips , 1940s-era look .
virgin mary in clearwater , florida .
i actually went to see this one .
there was a lot of people there -- the faithful come to be in their -- wheelchairs and crutches , and so on .
and we went down , investigated .
just to give you a size -- that 's dawkins , me and the amazing randi , next to this two , two and a half story size image .
all these candles , so many thousands of candles people had lit in tribute to this .
so we walked around the backside , just to see what was going on here , where -- it turns out wherever there 's a sprinkler head and a palm tree , you get the effect .
here 's the virgin mary on the backside , which they started to wipe off .
i guess you can only have one miracle per building .
so is it really a miracle of mary , or is it a miracle of marge ?
and then i 'm going to finish up with another example of this with audio -- auditory illusions .
there is this film , " white noise , " with michael keaton about the dead talking back to us .
by the way , this whole business of talking to the dead , it 's not that big a deal .
anybody can do it , turns out .
it 's getting the dead to talk back that 's the really hard part .
in this case , supposedly , these messages are hidden in electronic phenomena .
there 's a reversespeech.com web page from which i downloaded this stuff .
here is the forward -- this is the most famous one of all of these .
here 's the forward version of the very famous song .
boy , couldn 't you just listen to that all day ?
all right , here it is backwards , and see if you can hear the hidden messages that are supposedly in there .
what did you get ?
audience : " satan . " michael shermer : " satan ? " ok , well , at least we got " satan . "
now , i 'll prime your auditory part of your brain to tell you what you 're supposed to hear , and then hear it again .
you can 't miss it when i tell you what 's there .
all right , i 'm going to just end with a positive , nice , little story about -- the skeptics is a nonprofit educational organization .
we 're always looking for little , good things that people do .
and in england , there 's a pop singer .
very -- one of the top popular singers in england today , katie melua .
and she wrote a beautiful song .
it was in the top five in 2005 , called , " nine million bicycles in beijing . "
it 's a love story -- she 's sort of the norah jones of the u.k. -- about how she much loves her guy , and compared to nine million bicycles , and so forth .
and she has this one passage here .
 we are 12 billion light-years from the edge   that 's a guess   no one can ever say it 's true   but i know that i will always be with you  well , that 's nice .
at least she got it close . in america it would be , " we 're 6,000 light years from the edge . "
but my friend , simon singh , the particle physicist now turned science educator , and he wrote the book " the big bang , " and so on .
he uses every chance he gets to promote good science .
and so , he wrote an op-ed piece in " the guardian " about katie 's song , in which he said , well , we know exactly how old , how far from the edge .
you know , it 's 12 -- it 's 13.7 billion light years , and it 's not a guess .
we know within precise error bars there how close it is .
and so , we can say , although not absolutely true , that it 's pretty close to being true .
and , to his credit , katie called him up after this op-ed piece came out .
and said , " i 'm so embarrassed .
i was a member of the astronomy club , and i should have known better . "
and she re-cut the song .
so i 'll end with the new version .
 we are 13.7 billion light years   from the edge of the observable universe   that 's a good estimate with well-defined error bars   and with the available information   i predict that i will always be with you  how cool is that ?
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / dean _ ornish _ on _ the _ world _ s _ killer _ diet.html
stop wringing your hands over aids , cancer and the avian flu . cardiovascular disease kills more people than everything else combined -- and it 's mostly preventable . dr. dean ornish explains how changing our eating habits will save lives .
culture , disease , food , global issues , health , health care , science , short talk
10
dean ornish on the world 's killer diet
with all the legitimate concerns about aids and avian flu -- and we 'll hear about that from the brilliant dr. brilliant later today -- i want to talk about the other pandemic , which is cardiovascular disease , diabetes , hypertension -- all of which are completely preventable for at least 95 percent of people just by changing diet and lifestyle .
and what 's happening is that there 's a globalization of illness occurring , that people are starting to eat like us , and live like us , and die like us . and in one generation , for example , asia 's gone from having one of the lowest rates of heart disease and obesity and diabetes to one of the highest . and in africa , cardiovascular disease equals the hiv and aids deaths in most countries .
so there 's a critical window of opportunity we have to make an important difference that can affect the lives of literally millions of people , and practice preventive medicine on a global scale .
heart and blood vessel diseases still kill more people -- not only in this country , but also worldwide -- than everything else combined , and yet it 's completely preventable for almost everybody .
it 's not only preventable ; it 's actually reversible . and for the last almost 29 years , we 've been able to show that by simply changing diet and lifestyle , using these very high-tech , expensive , state-of-the-art measures to prove how powerful these very simple and low-tech and low-cost interventions can be like -- quantitative arteriography , before and after a year , and cardiac pet scans .
we showed a few months ago -- we published the first study showing you can actually stop or reverse the progression of prostate cancer by making changes in diet and lifestyle , and 70 percent regression in the tumor growth , or inhibition of the tumor growth , compared to only nine percent in the control group .
and in the mri and mr spectroscopy here , the prostate tumor activity is shown in red -- you can see it diminishing after a year .
now there is an epidemic of obesity : two-thirds of adults and 15 percent of kids . what 's really concerning to me is that diabetes has increased 70 percent in the past 10 years , and this may be the first generation in which our kids live a shorter life span than we do . that 's pitiful , and it 's preventable .
now these are not election returns , these are the people -- the number of the people who are obese by state , beginning in ' 85 , ' 86 , ' 87 -- these are from the cdc website -- ' 88 , ' 89 , ' 90 , ' 91 -- you get a new category -- ' 92 , ' 93 , ' 94 , ' 95 , ' 96 , ' 97 , ' 98 , ' 99 , 2000 , 2001 -- it gets worse . we 're
kind of devolving .
now what can we do about this ? well , you know , the diet that we 've found that can reverse heart disease and cancer is an asian diet .
but the people in asia are starting to eat like we are , which is why they 're starting to get sick like we are .
so i 've been working with a lot of the big food companies . they can make it fun and sexy and hip and crunchy and convenient to eat healthier foods , like -- i chair the advisory boards to mcdonald 's , and pepsico , and conagra , and safeway , and soon del monte , and they 're finding that it 's good business .
the salads that you see at mcdonald 's came from the work -- they 're going to have an asian salad . at
pepsi , two-thirds of their revenue growth came from their better foods .
and so if we can do that , then we can free up resources for buying drugs that you really do need for treating aids and hiv and malaria and for preventing avian flu . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jane _ chen _ a _ warm _ embrace _ that _ saves _ lives.html
in the developing world , access to incubators is limited by cost and distance , and millions of premature babies die each year . ted fellow jane chen shows an invention that could keep millions of these infants warm -- a design that 's safe , portable , low-cost and life-saving .
children , design , entrepreneur , health , innovation , invention , medicine
752
jane chen : a warm embrace that saves lives
please close your eyes , and open your hands .
now imagine what you could place in your hands : an apple , maybe your wallet .
now open your eyes .
what about a life ?
what you see here is a premature baby .
he looks like he 's resting peacefully , but in fact he 's struggling to stay alive because he can 't regulate his own body temperature .
this baby is so tiny he doesn 't have enough fat on his body to stay warm .
sadly , 20 million babies like this are born every year around the world .
four million of these babies die annually .
but the bigger problem is that the ones who do survive grow up with severe , long-term health problems .
the reason is because in the first month of a baby 's life , its only job is to grow .
if it 's battling hypothermia , its organs can 't develop normally , resulting in a range of health problems from diabetes , to heart disease , to low i.q .
imagine : many of these problems could be prevented if these babies were just kept warm .
that is the primary function of an incubator .
but traditional incubators require electricity and cost up to 20 thousand dollars .
so , you 're not going to find them in rural areas of developing countries .
as a result , parents resort to local solutions like tying hot water bottles around their babies ' bodies , or placing them under light bulbs like the ones you see here -- methods that are both ineffective and unsafe .
i 've seen this firsthand over and over again .
on one of my first trips to india , i met this young woman , sevitha , who had just given birth to a tiny premature baby , rani .
she took her baby to the nearest village clinic , and the doctor advised her to take rani to a city hospital so she could be placed in an incubator .
but that hospital was over four hours away ,
and sevitha didn 't have the means to get there , so her baby died .
inspired by this story , and dozens of other similar stories like this , my team and i realized what was needed was a local solution , something that could work without electricity , that was simple enough for a mother or a midwife to use , given that the majority of births still take place in the home .
we needed something that was portable , something that could be sterilized and reused across multiple babies and something ultra-low-cost , compared to the 20,000 dollars that an incubator in the u.s. costs .
so , this is what we came up with .
what you see here looks nothing like an incubator . it looks like a small sleeping bag for a baby .
you can open it up completely . it 's waterproof .
there 's no seams inside so you can sterilize it very easily .
but the magic is in this pouch of wax .
this is a phase-change material .
it 's a wax-like substance with a melting point of human body temperature , 37 degrees celsius .
you can melt this simply using hot water and then when it melts it 's able to maintain one constant temperature for four to six hours at a time , after which you simply reheat the pouch .
so , you then place it into this little pocket back here , and it creates a warm micro-environment for the baby .
looks simple , but we 've reiterated this dozens of times by going into the field to talk to doctors , moms and clinicians to ensure that this really meets the needs of the local communities .
we plan to launch this product in india in 2010 ,
and the target price point will be 25 dollars , less than 0.1 percent of the cost of a traditional incubator .
over the next five years we hope to save the lives of almost a million babies .
but the longer-term social impact is a reduction in population growth .
this seems counterintuitive , but turns out that as infant mortality is reduced , population sizes also decrease , because parents don 't need to anticipate that their babies are going to die .
we hope that the embrace infant warmer and other simple innovations like this represent a new trend for the future of technology : simple , localized , affordable solutions that have the potential to make huge social impact .
in designing this we followed a few basic principles .
we really tried to understand the end user , in this case , people like sevitha .
we tried to understand the root of the problem rather than being biased by what already exists .
and then we thought of the most simple solution we could to address this problem .
in doing this , i believe we can truly bring technology to the masses .
and we can save millions of lives through the simple warmth of an embrace .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / seth _ godin _ on _ the _ tribes _ we _ lead.html
seth godin argues the internet has ended mass marketing and revived a human social unit from the distant past : tribes . founded on shared ideas and values , tribes give ordinary people the power to lead and make big change . he urges us to do so .
book , communication , community , marketing , social media , society
538
seth godin on the tribes we lead
so sometimes i get invited to give weird talks .
i got invited to speak to the people who dress up in big stuffed animal costumes to perform at sporting events .
unfortunately i couldn 't go .
but it got me thinking about the fact that these guys , at least most of them , know what it is that they do for a living .
what they do is they dress up as stuffed animals and entertain people at sporting events .
shortly after that i got invited to speak at the convention of the people who make balloon animals .
and again , i couldn 't go . but it 's a fascinating group . they make balloon animals .
there is a big schism between the ones who make gospel animals and porn animals , but --
they do a lot of really cool stuff with balloons .
sometimes they get in trouble , but not often .
and the other thing about these guys is , they also know what they do for a living .
they make balloon animals .
but what do we do for a living ?
what exactly to the people watching this do every day ?
and i want to argue that what we do is we try to change everything .
that we try to find a piece of the status quo -- something that bothers us , something that needs to be improved , something that is itching to be changed -- and we change it .
we try to make big , permanent , important change .
but we don 't think about it that way .
and we haven 't spent a lot of time talking about what that process is like .
and i 've been studying it for a couple years .
and i want to share a couple stories with you today .
first , about a guy named nathan winograd .
nathan was the number two person at the san francisco spca .
and what you may not know about the history of the spca is , it was founded to kill dogs and cats .
cities gave them a charter to get rid of the stray animals on the street and destroy them .
in a typical year four million dogs and cats were killed , most of them within 24 hours of being scooped off of the street .
nathan and his boss saw this ,
and they could not tolerate it .
so they set out to make san francisco a no-kill city :
create an entire city where every dog and cat , unless it was ill or dangerous , would be adopted , not killed .
and everyone said it was impossible .
nathan and his boss went to the city council to get a change in the ordinance . and people from spcas and humane shelters around the country flew to san francisco to testify against them -- to say it would hurt the movement and it was inhumane .
they persisted . and nathan went directly to the community .
he connected with people who cared about this :
nonprofessionals , people with passion .
and within just a couple years , san francisco became the first no-kill city ,
running no deficit , completely supported by the community .
nathan left and went to tompkins county , new york --
a place as different from san francisco as you can be and still be in the united states . and he did it again .
he went from being a glorified dogcatcher to completely transforming the community .
and then he went to north carolina and did it again .
and he went to reno and he did it again .
and when i think about what nathan did , and when i think about what people here do , i think about ideas .
and i think about the idea that creating an idea , spreading an idea has a lot behind it .
i don 't know if you 've ever been to a jewish wedding ,
but what they do is , they take a light bulb and they smash it .
now there is a bunch of reasons for that , and stories about it .
but one reason is because it indicates a change , from before to after .
it is a moment in time .
and i want to argue that we are living through and are right at the key moment of a change in the way ideas are created and spread and implemented .
we started with the factory idea :
that you could change the whole world if you had an efficient factory that could churn out change .
we then went to the tv idea ,
that said if you had a big enough mouthpiece , if you could get on tv enough times , if you could buy enough ads , you could win .
and now we 're in this new model of leadership ,
where the way we make change is not by using money or power to lever a system , but by leading .
so let me tell you about the three cycles . the first one is the factory cycle .
henry ford comes up with a really cool idea .
it enables him to hire men who used to get paid 50 cents a day and pay them five dollars a day . because he 's got an efficient enough factory .
well with that sort of advantage you can churn out a lot of cars .
you can make a lot of change . you can get roads built .
you can change the fabric of an entire country .
that the essence of what you 're doing is you need ever-cheaper labor , and ever-faster machines . and the problem we 've run into is , we 're running out of both .
ever-cheaper labor and ever-faster machines .
so we shift gears for a minute , and say , " i know : television ;
advertising . push push .
take a good idea and push it on the world .
i have a better mousetrap . and if i can just get enough money to tell enough people , i 'll sell enough . "
and you can build an entire industry on that .
if necessary you can put babies in your ads .
if necessary you can use babies to sell other stuff .
and if babies don 't work , you can use doctors .
but be careful . because you don 't want to get an unfortunate juxtaposition , where you 're talking about one thing instead of the other .
this model requires you to act like the king , like the person in the front of the room throwing things to the peons in the back .
that you are in charge , and you 're going to tell people what to do next .
the quick little diagram of it is , you 're up here , and you are pushing it out to the world .
this method -- mass marketing -- requires average ideas , because you 're going to the masses , and plenty of ads .
what we 've done as spammers is tried to hypnotize everyone into buying our idea ,
hypnotize everyone into donating to our cause ,
hypnotize everyone into voting for our candidate .
and , unfortunately , it doesn 't work so well anymore either .
but there is good news around the corner -- really good news .
i call it the idea of tribes .
what tribes are , is a very simple concept that goes back 50,000 years .
it 's about leading and connecting people and ideas .
and it 's something that people have wanted forever .
lots of people are used to having a spiritual tribe , or a church tribe , having a work tribe , having a community tribe .
but now , thanks to the internet , thanks to the explosion of mass media , thanks to a lot of other things that are bubbling through our society around the world , tribes are everywhere .
the internet was supposed to homogenize everyone by connecting us all .
instead what it 's allowed is silos of interest .
so you 've got the red-hat ladies over here .
you 've got the red-hat triathletes over there .
you 've got the organized armies over here .
you 've got the disorganized rebels over here .
you 've got people in white hats making food .
and people in white hats sailing boats .
the point is that you can find ukrainian folk dancers and connect with them ,
because you want to be connected .
that people on the fringes can find each other , connect and go somewhere .
every town that has a volunteer fire department understands this way of thinking .
now it turns out this is a legitimate non-photoshopped photo .
people i know who are firemen told me that this is not uncommon . and that what firemen do to train sometimes is they take a house that is going to be torn down , and they burn it down instead , and practice putting it out .
but they always stop and take a picture .
you know the pirate tribe is a fascinating one .
they 've got their own flag . they 've got the eye patches .
you can tell when you 're running into someone in a tribe .
and it turns out that it 's tribes -- not money , not factories -- that can change our world , that can change politics , that can align large numbers of people .
not because you force them to do something against their will ,
but because they wanted to connect .
that what we do for a living now , all of us , i think , is find something worth changing , and then assemble tribes that assemble tribes that spread the idea and spread the idea .
and it becomes something far bigger than ourselves ,
it becomes a movement .
so when al gore set out to change the world again , he didn 't do it by himself .
and he didn 't do it by buying a lot of ads .
he did it by creating a movement .
thousands of people around the country who could give his presentation for him ,
because he can 't be in 100 or 200 or 500 cities in each night .
you don 't need everyone .
what kevin kelley has taught us is you just need , i don 't know , a thousand true fans --
a thousand people who care enough that they will get you the next round and the next round and the next round .
and that means that the idea you create , the product you create , the movement you create isn 't for everyone ,
it 's not a mass thing . that 's not what this is about .
what it 's about instead is finding the true believers .
it 's easy to look at what i 've said so far , and say , " wait a minute , i don 't have what it takes to be that kind of leader . "
so here are two leaders . they don 't have a lot in common .
they 're about the same age . but that 's about it .
what they did , though , is each in their own way , created a different way of navigating your way through technology .
so some people will go out and get people to be on one team . and some people will get people to be on the other team .
it also informs the decisions you make when you make products or services .
you know , this is one of my favorite devices .
but what a shame that it 's not organized to help authors create movements .
what would happen if , when you 're using your kindle , you could see the comments and quotes and notes from all the other people reading the same book as you in that moment .
or from your book group . or from your friends , or from the circle you want .
what would happen if authors , or people with ideas could use version two , which comes out on monday , and use it to organize people who want to talk about something .
now there is a million things i could share with you about the mechanics here .
but let me just try a couple .
the beatles did not invent teenagers .
they merely decided to lead them .
that most movements , most leadership that we 're doing is about finding a group that 's disconnected but already has a yearning --
not persuading people to want something they don 't have yet .
when diane hatz worked on " the meatrix , " her video that spread all across the internet about the way farm animals are treated , she didn 't invent the idea of being a vegan .
she didn 't invent the idea of caring about this issue .
but she helped organize people , and helped turn it into a movement .
hugo chavez did not invent the disaffected middle and lower class of venezuela . he merely led them .
bob marley did not invent rastafarians .
he just stepped up and said , " follow me . "
derek sivers invented cd baby , which allowed independent musicians to have a place to sell their music without selling out to the man --
to have place to take the mission they already wanted to go to , and connect with each other .
what all these people have in common is that they are heretics .
that heretics look at the status quo and say , " this will not stand . i can 't abide this status quo .
i am willing to stand up and be counted and move things forward .
i see what the status quo is ; i don 't like it . "
that instead of looking at all the little rules and following each one of them , that instead of being what i call a sheepwalker -- somebody who 's half asleep , following instructions , keeping their head down , fitting in -- every once in a while someone stands up and says , " not me . "
someone stands up and says , " this one is important .
we need to organize around it . "
and not everyone will . but you don 't need everyone .
you just need a few people -- -- who will look at the rules , realize they make no sense , and realize how much they want to be connected .
so tony shea does not run a shoe store .
zappos isn 't a shoe store .
zappos is the one , the only , the best-there-ever-was place for people who are into shoes to find each other , to talk about their passion , to connect with people who care more about customer service than making a nickel tomorrow .
it can be something as prosaic as shoes , and something as complicated as overthrowing a government .
it 's exactly the same behavior though .
what it requires , as geraldine carter has discovered , is to be able to say , " i can 't do this by myself .
but if i can get other people to join my climb and ride , then together we can get something that we all want .
we 're just waiting for someone to lead us . "
michelle kaufman has pioneered new ways of thinking about environmental architecture .
she doesn 't do it by quietly building one house at a time .
she does it by telling a story to people who want to hear it .
by connecting a tribe of people who are desperate to be connected to each other .
by leading a movement and
making change .
and around and around and around it goes .
so three questions i 'd offer you .
the first one is , who exactly are you upsetting ?
because if you 're not upsetting anyone , you 're not changing the status quo .
the second question is , who are you connecting ?
because for a lot of people , that 's what they 're in it for :
the connections that are being made , one to the other .
and the third one is , who are you leading ?
because focusing on that part of it -- not the mechanics of what you 're building , but the who , and the leading part -- is where change comes .
so blake , at tom 's shoes , had a very simple idea .
" what would happen if every time someone bought a pair of these shoes i gave exactly the same pair to someone who doesn 't even own a pair of shoes ? "
this is not the story of how you get shelf space at neiman marcus .
it 's a story of a product that tells a story .
and as you walk around with this remarkable pair of shoes and someone says , " what are those ? "
you get to tell the story on blake 's behalf , on behalf of the people who got the shoes .
and suddenly it 's not one pair of shoes or 100 pairs of shoes . it 's tens of thousands of pairs of shoes .
my friend red maxwell has spent the last 10 years fighting against juvenile diabetes .
not fighting the organization that 's fighting it -- fighting with them , leading them , connecting them , challenging the status quo because it 's important to him .
and the people he surrounds himself with need the connection .
they need the leadership . it makes a difference .
you don 't need permission from people to lead them .
but in case you do , here it is :
they 're waiting , we 're waiting for you to show us where to go next .
so here is what leaders have in common . the first thing is , they challenge the status quo .
they challenge what 's currently there .
the second thing is , they build a culture .
a secret language , a seven-second handshake ,
a way of knowing that you 're in or out .
they have curiosity . curiosity about people in the tribe ,
curiosity about outsiders . they 're asking questions .
they connect people to one another .
do you know what people want more than anything ?
they want to be missed .
they want to be missed the day they don 't show up .
they want to be missed when they 're gone .
and tribe leaders can do that .
it 's fascinating , because all tribe leaders have charisma ,
but you don 't need charisma to become a leader .
being a leader gives you charisma .
if you look and study the leaders who have succeeded , that 's where charisma comes from -- from the leading .
finally , they commit .
they commit to the cause . they commit to the tribe .
they commit to the people who are there .
so i 'd like you to do something for me .
and i hope you 'll think about it before you reject it out-of-hand .
what i want you to do , it only takes 24 hours , is : create a movement .
something that matters . start . do it . we need it .
thank you very much . i appreciate it .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / shereen _ el _ feki _ pop _ culture _ in _ the _ arab _ world.html
at tedglobal university , shereen el feki shows how some arab cultures are borrowing trademarks of western pop culture -- music videos , comics , even barbie -- and adding a culturally appropriate twist . the hybridized media shows how two civilizations , rather than dividing , can dovetail .
culture , entertainment , global issues , media , music
710
shereen el feki : pop culture in the arab world
