rob dunbar : discovering ancient climates in oceans and ice
if you really want to understand the problem that we 're facing with the oceans , you have to think about the biology at the same time you think about the physics .
we can 't solve the problems unless we start studying the ocean in a very much more interdisciplinary way .
so i 'm going to demonstrate that through discussion of some of the climate change things that are going on in the ocean .
we 'll look at sea level rise .
we 'll look at ocean warming .
and then the last thing on the list there , ocean acidification -- if you were to ask me , you know , " what do you worry about the most ?
what frightens you ? "
for me , it 's ocean acidification .
and this has come onto the stage pretty recently .
so i will spend a little time at the end .
i was in copenhagen in december like a number of you in this room .
and i think we all found it , simultaneously , an eye-opening and a very frustrating experience .
i sat in this large negotiation hall , at one point , for three or four hours , without hearing the word " oceans " one time .
it really wasn 't on the radar screen .
the nations that brought it up when we had the speeches of the national leaders -- it tended to be the leaders of the small island states , the low-lying island states .
and by this weird quirk of alphabetical order of the nations , a lot of the low-lying states , like kiribati and nauru , they were seated at the very end of these immensely long rows .
you know , they were marginalized in the negotiation room .
one of the problems is coming up with the right target .
it 's not clear what the target should be .
and how can you figure out how to fix something if you don 't have a clear target ?
now , you 've heard about " two degrees " : that we should limit temperature rise to no more than two degrees .
but there 's not a lot of science behind that number .
we 've also talked about concentrations of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere .
should it be 450 ? should it be 400 ?
there 's not a lot of science behind that one either .
most of the science that is behind these numbers , these potential targets , is based on studies on land .
and i would say , for the people that work in the ocean and think about what the targets should be , we would argue that they must be much lower .
you know , from an oceanic perspective , 450 is way too high .
now there 's compelling evidence that it really needs to be 350 .
we are , right now , at 390 parts per million of co2 in the atmosphere .
we 're not going to put the brakes on in time to stop at 450 , so we 've got to accept we 're going to do an overshoot , and the discussion as we go forward has to focus on how far the overshoot goes and what 's the pathway back to 350 .
now , why is this so complicated ?
why don 't we know some of these things a little bit better ?
well , the problem is that we 've got very complicated forces in the climate system .
there 's all kinds of natural causes of climate change .
there 's air-sea interactions .
here in galapagos , we 're affected by el ninos and la nina .
but the entire planet warms up when there 's a big el nino .
volcanoes eject aerosols into the atmosphere .
that changes our climate .
the ocean contains most of the exchangeable heat on the planet .
so anything that influences how ocean surface waters mix with the deep water changes the ocean of the planet .
and we know the solar output 's not constant through time .
so those are all natural causes of climate change .
and then we have the human-induced causes of climate change as well .
we 're changing the characteristics of the surface of the land , the reflectivity .
we inject our own aerosols into the atmosphere , and we have trace gases , and not just carbon dioxide -- it 's methane , ozone , oxides of sulfur and nitrogen .
so here 's the thing . it sounds like a simple question .
is co2 produced by man 's activities causing the planet to warm up ?
but to answer that question , to make a clear attribution to carbon dioxide , you have to know something about all of these other agents of change .
but the fact is we do know a lot about all of those things .
you know , thousands of scientists have been working on understanding all of these man-made causes and the natural causes .
and we 've got it worked out , and we can say , " yes , co2 is causing the planet to warm up now . "
now , we have many ways to study natural variability .
i 'll show you a few examples of this now .
this is the ship that i spent the last three months on in the antarctic .
it 's a scientific drilling vessel .
we go out for months at a time and drill into the sea bed to recover sediments that tell us stories of climate change , right .
like one of the ways to understand our greenhouse future is to drill down in time to the last period where we had co2 double what it is today .
and so that 's what we 've done with this ship .
this was -- this is south of the antarctic circle .
it looks downright tropical there .
one day where we had calm seas and sun , which was the reason i could get off the ship .
most of the time it looked like this .
we had a waves up to 50 ft. and winds averaging about 40 knots for most of the voyage and up to 70 or 80 knots .
so that trip just ended , and i can 't show you too many results from that right now , but we 'll go back one more year , to another drilling expedition i 've been involved in .
this was led by ross powell and tim naish .
it 's the andrill project .
and we made the very first bore hole through the largest floating ice shelf on the planet .
this is a crazy thing , this big drill rig wrapped in a blanket to keep everybody warm , drilling at temperatures of minus 40 .
and we drilled in the ross sea .
that 's the ross sea ice shelf on the right there .
so , this huge floating ice shelf the size of alaska comes from west antarctica .
now , west antarctica is the part of the continent where the ice is grounded on sea floor as much as 2,000 meters deep .
so that ice sheet is partly floating , and it 's exposed to the ocean , to the ocean heat .
this is the part of antarctica that we worry about .
because it 's partly floating , you can imagine , is sea level rises a little bit , the ice lifts off the bed , and then it can break off and float north .
when that ice melts , sea level rises by six meters .
so we drill back in time to see how often that 's happened , and exactly how fast that ice can melt .
here 's the cartoon on the left there .
we drilled through a hundred meters of floating ice shelf then through 900 meters of water and then 1,300 meters into the sea floor .
so it 's the deepest geological bore hole ever drilled .
it took about 10 years to put this project together .
and here 's what we found .
now , there 's 40 scientists working on this project , and people are doing all kinds of really complicated and expensive analyses .
but it turns out , you know , the thing that told the best story was this simple visual description .
you know , we saw this in the core samples as they came up .
we saw these alternations between sediments that look like this -- there 's gravel and cobbles in there and a bunch of sand .
that 's the kind of material in the deep sea .
it can only get there if it 's carried out by ice .
so we know there 's an ice shelf overhead .
and that alternates with a sediment that looks like this .
this is absolutely beautiful stuff .
this sediment is 100 percent made up of the shells of microscopic plants .
and these plants need sunlight , so we know when we find that sediment there 's no ice overhead .
and we saw about 35 alternations between open water and ice-covered water , between gravels and these plant sediments .
so what that means is , what it tells us is that the ross sea region , this ice shelf , melted back and formed anew about 35 times .
and this is in the past four million years .
this was completely unexpected .
nobody imagined that the west antarctic ice sheet was this dynamic .
in fact , the lore for many years has been , " the ice formed many tens of millions of years ago , and it 's been there ever since . "
and now we know that in our recent past it melted back and formed again , and sea level went up and down , six meters at a time .
what caused it ?
well , we 're pretty sure that it 's very small changes in the amount of sunlight reaching antarctica , just caused by natural changes in the orbit of the earth .
but here 's the key thing : you know , the other thing we found out is that the ice sheet passed a threshold , that the planet warmed up enough -- and the number 's about one degree to one and a half degrees centigrade -- the planet warmed up enough that it became ...
that ice sheet became very dynamic and was very easily melted .
and you know what ?
we 've actually changed the temperature in the last century just the right amount .
so many of us are convinced now that west antarctica , the west antarctic ice sheet , is starting to melt .
we do expect to see a sea-level rise on the order of one to two meters by the end of this century .
and it could be larger than that .
this is a serious consequence for nations like kiribati , you know , where the average elevation is about a little over a meter above sea level .
okay , the second story takes place here in galapagos .
this is a bleached coral , coral that died during the 1982- ' 83 el nino .
this is from champion island .
it 's about a meter tall pavona clavus colony .
and it 's covered with algae . that 's what happens .
when these things die , immediately , organisms come in and encrust and live on that dead surface .
and so , when a coral colony is killed by an el nino event , it leaves this indelible record .
you can go then and study corals and figure out how often do you see this .
so one of the things thought of in the ' 80s was to go back and take cores of coral heads throughout the galapagos and find out how often was there a devastating event .
and just so you know , 1982- ' 83 , that el nino killed 95 percent of all the corals here in galapagos .
then there was similar mortality in ' 97- ' 98 .
and what we found after drilling back in time two to 400 years was that these were unique events .
we saw no other mass mortality events .
so these events in our recent past really are unique .
so they 're either just truly monster el ninos , or they 're just very strong el ninos that occurred against a backdrop of global warming .
either case , it 's bad news for the corals of the galapagos islands .
here 's how we sample the corals .
this is actually easter island . look at this monster .
this coral is eight meters tall , right .
and it been growing for about 600 years .
now , sylvia earle turned me on to this exact same coral .
and she was diving here with john lauret -- i think it was 1994 -- and collected a little nugget and sent it to me .
and we started working on it , and we figured out we could tell the temperature of the ancient ocean from analyzing a coral like this .
so we have a diamond drill .
we 're not killing the colony ; we 're taking a small core sample out of the top .
the core comes up as these cylindrical tubes of limestone .
and that material then we take back to the lab and analyze it .
you can see some of the coral cores there on the right .
so we 've done that all over the eastern pacific .
we 're starting to do it in the western pacific as well .
i 'll take you back here to the galapagos islands .
and we 've been working at this fascinating uplift here in urbina bay .
that the place where , during an earthquake in 1954 , this marine terrace was lifted up out of the ocean very quickly , and it was lifted up about six to seven meters .
and so now you can walk through a coral reef without getting wet .
if you go on the ground there , it looks like this , and this is the grandaddy coral .
it 's 11 meters in diameter , and we know that it started growing in the year 1584 .
imagine that .
and that coral was growing happily in those shallow waters , until 1954 , when the earthquake happened .
now the reason we know it 's 1584 is that these corals have growth bands .
when you cut them , slice those cores in half and x-ray them , you see these light and dark bands .
each one of those is a year .
we know these corals grow about a centimeter and a half a year .
and we just count on down to the bottom .
then their other attribute is that they have this great chemistry .
we can analyze the carbonate that makes up the coral , and there 's a whole bunch of things we can do .
but in this case , we measured the different isotopes of oxygen .
their ratio tells us the water temperature .
in this example here , we had monitored this reef in galapagos with temperature recorders , so we know the temperature of the water the coral 's growing in .
then after we harvest a coral , we measure this ratio , and now you can see , those curves match perfectly .
in this case , at these islands , you know , corals are instrumental-quality recorders of change in the water .
and of course , our thermometers only take us back 50 years or so here .
the coral can take us back hundreds and thousands of years .
so , what we do : we 've merged a lot of different data sets .
it 's not just my group ; there 's maybe 30 groups worldwide doing this .
but we get these instrumental- and near-instrumental-quality records of temperature change that go back hundreds of years , and we put them together .
here 's a synthetic diagram .
there 's a whole family of curves here .
but what 's happening : we 're looking at the last thousand years of temperature on the planet .
and there 's five or six different compilations there , but each one of those compilations reflects input from hundreds of these kinds of records from corals .
we do similar things with ice cores .
we work with tree rings .
and that 's how we discover what is truly natural and how different is the last century , right ?
and i chose this one because it 's complicated and messy looking , right .
this is as messy as it gets .
you can see there 's some signals there .
some of the records show lower temperatures than others .
some of them show greater variability .
but they all tell us what the natural variability is .
some of them are from the northern hemisphere ; some are from the entire globe .
but here 's what we can say : what 's natural in the last thousand years is that the planet was cooling down .
it was cooling down until about 1900 or so .
and there is natural variability caused by the sun , caused by el ninos .
a century-scale , decadal-scale variability , and we know the magnitude ; it 's about two-tenths to four-tenths of a degree centigrade .
but then at the very end is where we have the instrumental record in black .
and there 's the temperature up there in 2009 .
you know , we 've warmed the globe about a degree centigrade in the last century , and there 's nothing in the natural part of that record that resembles what we 've seen in the last century .
you know , that 's the strength of our argument , that we are doing something that 's truly different .
so i 'll close with a short discussion of ocean acidification .
i like it as a component of global change to talk about , because , even if you are a hard-bitten global warming skeptic , and i talk to that community fairly often , you cannot deny the simple physics of co2 dissolving in the ocean .
you know , we 're pumping out lots of co2 into the atmosphere , from fossil fuels , from cement production .
right now , about a third of that carbon dioxide is dissolving straight into the sea , right ?
and as it does so , it makes the ocean more acidic .
so , you cannot argue with that .
that is what 's happening right now , and it 's a very different issue than the global warming issue .
it has many consequences .
there 's consequences for carbonate organisms .
there are many organisms that build their shells out of calcium carbonate -- plants and animals both .
the main framework material of coral reefs is calcium carbonate .
that material is more soluble in acidic fluid .
so one of the things we 're seeing is organisms are having to spend more metabolic energy to build and maintain their shells .
at some point , as this transience , as this co2 uptake in the ocean continues , that material 's actually going to start to dissolve .
and on coral reefs , where some of the main framework organisms disappear , we will see a major loss of marine biodiversity .
but it 's not just the carbonate producers that are affected .
there 's many physiological processes that are influenced by the acidity of the ocean .
so many reactions involving enzymes and proteins are sensitive to the acid content of the ocean .
so , all of these things -- greater metabolic demands , reduced reproductive success , changes in respiration and metabolism .
you know , these are things that we have good physiological reasons to expect to see stressed caused by this transience .
so we figured out some pretty interesting ways to track co2 levels in the atmosphere , going back millions of years .
we used to do it just with ice cores , but in this case , we 're going back 20 million years .
and we take samples of the sediment , and it tells us the co2 level of the ocean , and therefore the co2 level of the atmosphere .
and here 's the thing : you have to go back about 15 million years to find a time when co2 levels were about what they are today .
you have to go back about 30 million years to find a time when co2 levels were double what they are today .
now , what that means is that all of the organisms that live in the sea have evolved in this chemostatted ocean , with co2 levels lower than they are today .
that 's the reason that they 're not able to respond or adapt to this rapid acidification that 's going on right now .
so , charlie veron came up with this statement last year : " the prospect of ocean acidification may well be the most serious of all of the predicted outcomes of anthropogenic co2 release . "
and i think that may very well be true , so i 'll close with this .
you know , we do need the protected areas , absolutely , but for the sake of the oceans , we have to cap or limit co2 emissions as soon as possible .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jehane _ noujaim _ inspires _ a _ global _ day _ of _ film.html
jehane noujaim unveils her 2006 ted prize wish : to bring the world together for one day a year through the power of film .
featured , ted prize , arts , culture , entertainment , film , global issues , peace , social change , storytelling
55
jehane noujaim wishes for a global day of film
i can 't help but with this wish to think about when you 're a little kid and you -- all your friends ask you if a genie could give you one wish in the world , what would it be ?
and i always answered , " well , i 'd want the wish to have the wisdom to know exactly what to wish for . "
well , then you 'd be screwed because you 'd know what to wish for and you 'd used up your wish .
and now , since we only have one wish -- unlike last year they had three wishes -- i 'm not going to wish for that .
so let 's get to what i would like , which is world peace .
and i know what you 're thinking .
you 're thinking , the poor girl up there -- she thinks she 's at a beauty pageant . she 's not . she 's at the ted prize .
but i really do think it makes sense , and i think that the first step to world peace is for people to meet each other .
i 've met a lot of different people over the years and i 've filmed some of them -- from a dotcom executive in new york that wanted to take over the world to a military press officer in qatar that would rather not take over the world .
if you 've seen the film " control room " that was sent out , you 'd understand a little bit why . thank you .
wow ! some of you watched it .
that 's great . that 's great .
so basically what i 'd like to talk about today is a way for people to travel , to meet people in a different way than -- because you can 't travel all over the world at the same time .
and a long time ago -- well , about 40 years ago -- my mom had an exchange student .
and i 'm going to show you slides of the exchange student .
this is donna .
this is donna at the statue of liberty .
this is my mother and aunt teaching donna how to ride a bike .
this is donna eating ice cream .
and this is donna teaching my aunt how to do a filipino dance .
now i really think as the world is getting smaller , it becomes more and more important that we learn each other 's dance moves , that we meet each other , we get to know each other , we are able to figure out a way to cross borders , to understand each other , to understand people 's hopes and dreams , what makes them laugh and cry .
and i know that we can 't all do exchange programs , and i can 't force everybody to travel .
i 've already talked about that to chris and amy , and they said that there 's a problem with this .
you can 't force people of free will , and i totally support that .
so we 're not forcing people to travel .
but i 'd like to talk about another way to travel that doesn 't require a ship or an airplane , and just requires a movie camera , a projector and a screen .
and that 's what i 'm going to talk to you about today .
i was asked that i speak a little bit about where i personally come from , and cameron , i don 't know how you managed to get out of that one , but i think that building bridges is important to me because of where i come from .
i 'm the daughter of an american mother and an egyptian-lebanese-syrian father .
so i 'm the living product of two cultures coming together .
no pun intended .
and i 've also been called -- as an egyptian-lebanese-syrian american with a persian name -- the " middle east peace crisis . "
so maybe me starting to take pictures was some kind of way to bring both sides of my family together , a way to take the worlds with me , a way to tell stories visually .
it all kind of started that way , but i think that i really realized the power of the image when i first went to the garbage-collecting village in egypt ,
when i was about 16 . my mother took me there .
she 's somebody that believes strongly in community service and decided that this was something that i needed to do and so i went there and i met some amazing women there .
there was a center there where they were teaching people how to read and write and get vaccinations against the many diseases you can get from sorting through garbage .
and i began to start teaching there .
i taught english , and i met some incredible women there .
i met people that live seven people to a room , barely can afford their evening meal , yet live with this strength of spirit and sense of humor
and just incredible qualities .
i got drawn into this community and i began to take pictures there .
i took pictures of weddings and older family members , things that they wanted memories of .
about two years after i started taking these pictures , the un conference on population and development asked me to show them at the conference .
so i was 18 ; i was very excited .
it was my first exhibit of photographs and they were all put up there , and after about two days , they all came down except for three .
people were very upset , very angry that i was showing these dirty sides of cairo , and why didn 't i cut the dead donkey out of the frame ?
and as i sat there , i got very depressed . i looked at this big empty wall with three lonely photographs that were , you know , very pretty photographs and i was like , i failed at this .
but i was looking at this intense emotion and intense feeling that had come out of people just seeing these photographs .
i mean , here i was , this 18-year-old pipsqueak that nobody listened to , and all of a sudden i put these photographs on the wall and there were arguments , and they had to be taken down .
and i just saw the power of the image .
and it was incredible .
and i think the most important reaction that i saw there was actually people that would never have gone to the garbage village themselves , that would never have seen that the human spirit could thrive in such difficult circumstances .
and i think it was at that point that i decided that i wanted to use photography and film to somehow bridge gaps , to bridge cultures , bring people together , cross borders .
and so that 's what really kind of started me off .
did a stint at mtv , made a film called " startup.com , " and i 've done a couple of music films --
but in 2003 , when the war in iraq was about to start , it was a very surreal feeling for me because before the war started , there was kind of this media war that was going on .
and i was watching television in new york and there seemed to be just one point of view that was coming across , and the coverage went from the u.s. state department to embedded troops and what was coming across on the news was that there was going to be this clean war and precision bombings , and the iraqis would be greeting the americans as liberators and throwing flowers at their feet in the streets of baghdad .
and i knew that there was a completely other story that was taking place in the middle east where my parents were .
i knew that there was a completely other story being told , and i was thinking , how are people supposed to communicate with each other when they 're getting completely different messages and nobody knows what the other 's being told ?
how are people supposed to have any kind of common understanding
or know how to move together into the future ?
so i knew that i had to go there .
i just wanted to be in the center .
i had no plan . i had no funding .
i didn 't even have a camera at the time .
i had somebody bring it there because i wanted to get access to al jazeera , george bush 's favorite channel and a place which i was very curious about because it 's disliked by many governments across the arab world and also called the mouthpiece of osama bin laden by some people in the u.s. government .
so i was thinking , you know , this station that 's hated by so many people has to be doing something right .
i 've got to go see what this is all about .
and i also wanted to go see central command , which was 10 minutes away , and that way i could get access to how this news was being created on the arab side reaching the arab world , and on the u.s. and western side reaching the u.s .
and when i went there and sat there , and met these people that were in the center of it and sat with these characters , i met some surprising , very complex people .
and i 'd like to share with you a little bit of that experience of when you sit with somebody and you film them , and you listen to them , and you allow them more than a five-second sound bite , the amazing complexity of people emerge .
sameer khader : business as usual .
iraq , and then iraq , and then iraq .
but between us , if i 'm offered a job with fox , i 'll take it .
to change the arab nightmare into the american dream .
i still have that dream . maybe i will never be able to do it .
but i have plans for my children .
when they finish their high school i will send them to america to study there .
i will pay for their study .
and they will stay there .
josh rushing : the night they showed the pows and the dead soldiers -- al jazeera showed them -- it was powerful because america doesn 't show those kinds of images .
most of the news in america won 't show really gory images and this showed american soldiers in uniform strewn about a floor , a cold tile floor .
and it was revolting . it was absolutely revolting .
it made me sick to my stomach .
and then what hit me was , the night before , there had been some kind of bombing in basra , and al jazeera had shown images of the people .
and they were equally if not more horrifying -- the images were .
and i remember having seen it in the al jazeera office and thought to myself , " wow , that 's gross .
that 's bad . "
and then going away , and probably eating dinner or something .
and it didn 't affect me as much .
so -- the impact it had on me , me realizing that i just saw people on the other side , and those people in the al jazeera office must have felt the way i was feeling that night .
and it upset me on a profound level that i wasn 't bothered as much the night before .
it makes me hate war .
but it doesn 't make me believe that we 're in world that can live without war yet .
jehane noujaim : i was overwhelmed by the response of the film , for we didn 't know whether it would be able to get out there .
we had no funding for it .
we were incredibly lucky that it got picked up , and when we showed the film in both the united states and the arab world we had such incredible reactions . it was amazing to see how people were moved by this film .
in the arab world -- and it 's not really by the film ; it 's by the characters .
i mean , josh rushing was this incredibly complex person who was thinking about things .
and when i showed the film in the middle east , people wanted to meet josh .
he kind of redefined us as an american population .
people started to , you know , ask me , where is this guy now ?
al jazeera offered him a job .
and sameer , on the other hand , was also quite an interesting character for the arab world to see , because it brought out the complexities of this love / hate relationship that the arab world has with the west .
in the united states , i was blown away by the motivations , the positive motivations of the american people when they 'd see this film .
you know , we 're criticized abroad for believing we 're the saviors of the world in some way , but the flip side of it is that actually , when people do see what is happening abroad and people 's reactions to some of our policy abroad , we feel this power that we need to -- we feel like we have to get the power to change things .
and i saw this with audiences . this woman came up to me after the screening and said , " you know , i know this is crazy . i saw the bombs being loaded on the planes ; i saw the military going out to war .
but you don 't understand people 's anger towards us until you see the people in the hospitals and the victims of the war , and how do we get out of this bubble ?
how do we understand what the other person is thinking ? "
now , i don 't know whether a film can change the world , but i know that it starts -- i know the power of it -- i know that it starts people thinking about how to change the world .
now , i 'm not a philosopher , so i feel like i shouldn 't go into great depth on this but let film speak for itself and take you to this other world .
because i believe that film has the ability to take you across borders .
i 'd like you to just sit back and experience for a couple of minutes being taken into another world .
and these couple clips take you inside of two of the most difficult conflicts that we are faced with today .
man : as long as there is injustice , someone must make a sacrifice !
woman : that 's no sacrifice , that 's revenge !
if you kill , there 's no difference between victim and occupier .
man : if we had airplanes , we wouldn 't need martyrs , that 's the difference .
woman : the difference is that the israeli military is still stronger .
man : then let us be equal in death .
we still have paradise .
woman : there is no paradise ! it only exists in your head !
man : god forbid !
may god forgive you .
if you were not abu azzam 's daughter ... anyway , i 'd rather have paradise in my head than live in this hell !
in this life , we 're dead anyway .
one only chooses bitterness when the alternative is even bitterer .
woman : and what about us ? the ones who remain ?
will we win that way ?
don 't you see what you 're doing is destroying us ?
and that you give israel an alibi to carry on ?
man : so with no alibi , israel will stop ?
woman : perhaps . we have to turn it into a moral war .
man : how , if israel has no morals ?
woman : be careful !
zvika : my wife ayelet called me and said , " there was a suicide bombing in tel aviv . "
ayelet : what do you know about the casualties ?
we 're looking for three girls .
zvika : we have no information .
ayelet : one is wounded here , but we haven 't heard from the other three .
zvika : i said , " ok , that 's bat-chen , that 's my daughter .
are you sure she is dead ? "
they said yes .
george : on that day , at around 6 : 30 i was driving with my wife and daughters to the supermarket .
when we got to here ,
we saw three israeli military jeeps parked on the side of the road .
when we passed by the first jeep , they opened fire on us .
and my 12-year-old daughter christine was killed in the shooting .
i am the headmaster for all parts .
george : but there is a teacher that is in charge ?
tzvika : yes , i have assistants .
i deal with children all the time .
george : at first , i thought it was a strange idea .
but after thinking logically about it , i didn 't find any reason why not to meet them and let them know of our suffering .
george : there were many things that touched me .
we see that there are palestinians who suffered a lot , who lost children , and still believe in the peace process and in reconciliation .
if we who lost what is most precious can talk to each other , and look forward to a better future , then everyone else must do so , too .
man : song is something that we communicated with people who otherwise would not have understood where we 're coming from .
you could give them a long political speech they would still not understand .
but i tell you , when you finish that song , people will be like , " damn , i know where you niggaz are coming from .
i know where you guys are coming from . death unto apartheid ! "
narrator : it 's about the liberation struggle . it 's about those children who took to the streets , fighting , screaming , " free nelson mandela ! "
it 's about those unions who put down their tools and demanded freedom .
yes . yes !
freedom !
jehane noujaim : i think everybody 's had that feeling of sitting in a theater , in a dark room , with other strangers , watching a very powerful film , and they felt that feeling of transformation .
and
what i 'd like to talk about is how can we use that feeling to actually create a movement through film ?
i 've been listening to the talks in some of the conference , and robert wright said yesterday that if we have an appreciation for another person 's humanity , then they will have an appreciation for ours .
and that 's what this is about .
it 's about connecting people through film , getting these independent voices out there .
now josh rushing actually ended up leaving the military and taking a job with al jazeera , so his feeling is that he 's on al jazeera international because he feels like he can actually use media to bridge the gap between east and west .
and that 's an amazing thing .
but i 've been trying to think about ways to give power to these independent voices , to give power to the filmmakers , to give power to people who are trying to use film for change .
and there are incredible organizations that are out there doing this already .
there 's witness , that you heard from earlier .
there 's just vision , that are working with palestinians and israelis who are working together for peace , and documenting that process and getting interviews out there and using this film to take to congress to show that it 's a powerful tool to show that this is a woman who 's had her daughter killed in an attack , and she believes that there are peaceful ways to solve this .
there 's working films and there 's current tv , which is an incredible platform for people around the world to be able to put their -- yes , it 's amazing .
i watched it and i 'm just -- i 'm blown away by it and its potential to bring voices from around the world , independent voices from around the world , and create a truly democratic , global television .
so what can we do to create a platform for these organizations , to create some momentum , to get everybody in the world involved in this movement ?
i 'd like for us to imagine for a second -- imagine a day when you have everyone coming together from around the world .
you have towns and villages and theaters all from around the world getting together , and sitting in the dark , and sharing a communal experience of watching a film , or a couple of films , together .
watching a film which maybe highlights a character that is fighting to live , or just a character that defies stereotypes , makes a joke , sings a song .
comedies , documentaries , shorts .
this amazing power can be used to change people and to bond people together , to cross borders and have people feel like they 're having a communal experience .
so if you imagine this day when all around the world you have theaters from around the world and places where we project films .
if you imagine from -- projecting from times square to tahir square in cairo , the same film in ramallah , the same film in jerusalem .
you know , we 've been talking to a friend of mine about using the side of the great pyramid and the great wall of china .
it 's endless what you can imagine , in terms of where you can project films and where you can have this communal experience .
and i believe that this one day , if we can create it , this one day can create momentum for all of these independent voices .
there isn 't an organization which is connecting the independent voices of the world to get out there , and yet i 'm hearing throughout this conference that the biggest danger in our future is [ lack of ] understanding the other and having mutual respect for the other and crossing borders .
and if film can do that , and if we can get all of these different locations in the world to watch these films together , this could be an incredible day .
so we 've already made a partnership actually , set up through somebody from the ted community , john camen , introduced me to steven apkon , from the jacob burns film center .
and we started calling up everybody .
and in the last week , there have been so many people that have responded to us from as close as palo alto to mongolia and to india .
there are people that want to be a part of this global day of film , to be able to provide a platform for independent voices and independent films to get out there .
now , we 've thought about a name for this day and i 'd like to share this with you .
now , the most amazing part of this whole process has been sharing ideas and wishes , and so i invite you to give brainstorms onto how does this day echo into the future ?
how do we use technology to make this day echo into the future , so that we can build community and have these communities working together , through the internet ?
there was a time , many , many years ago , when all of the continents were stuck together .
and we called that landmass pangea .
so what we 'd like to call this day of film is pangea cinema day .
and if you just imagine that all of these people in these towns would be watching , then i think that we can actually really make a movement towards people understanding each other better .
i know that it 's very intangible , touching people 's hearts and souls , but the only way that i know how to do it , the only way that i know how to reach out to somebody 's heart and soul all across the world is by showing them a film .
and i know that there are independent filmmakers and films out there that can really make this happen .
and that 's my wish .
so i guess i 'm supposed to give you my one-sentence wish , but we 're way out of time .
chris anderson : that is an incredible wish .
pangea cinema -- the day the world comes together .
jn : it 's more tangible than world peace , and it 's certainly more immediate .
but it would be the day that the world comes together through film , the power of film .
ca : ladies and gentlemen , jehane noujaim .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / brian _ greene _ on _ string _ theory.html
physicist brian greene explains superstring theory , the idea that minscule strands of energy vibrating in 11 dimensions create every particle and force in the universe .
physics , science , universe
251
brian greene on string theory
in the year 1919 , a virtually unknown german mathematician , named theodor kaluza suggested a very bold and , in some ways , a very bizarre idea . he proposed that our universe might actually have more than the three dimensions that we are all aware of . that is in addition to left , right , back , forth and up , down , kaluza proposed that there might be additional dimensions of space that for some reason we don 't yet see . now , when someone makes a bold and bizarre idea , sometimes that 's all it is -- bold and bizarre , but it has nothing to do with the world around us . this particular idea , however -- although we don 't yet know whether it 's right or wrong , and at the end i 'll discuss experiments which , in the next few years , may tell us whether it 's right or wrong -- this idea has had a major impact on physics in the last century and continues to inform a lot of cutting-edge research .
so , i 'd like to tell you something about the story of these extra dimensions . so where do we go ?
to begin we need a little bit of back story . go to 1907 .
this is a year when einstein is basking in the glow of having discovered the special theory of relativity and decides to take on a new project , to try to understand fully the grand , pervasive force of gravity . and in that moment , there are many people around who thought that that project had already been resolved .
newton had given the world a theory of gravity in the late 1600s that works well , describes the motion of planets , the motion of the moon and so forth , the motion of apocryphal of apples falling from trees , hitting people on the head . all of that could be described using newton 's work . but einstein realized that newton had left something out of the story , because even newton had written that although he understood how to calculate the effect of gravity , he 'd been unable to figure out how it really works . how is it that the sun , 93 million miles away , [ that ] somehow it affects the motion of the earth ?
how does the sun reach out across empty inert space and exert influence ?
and that is a task to which einstein set himself -- to figure out how gravity works .
and let me show you what it is that he found . so einstein found that the medium that transmits gravity is space itself . the idea goes like this : imagine space is a substrate of all there is . einstein said space is nice and flat , if there 's no matter present .
but if there is matter in the environment , such as the sun , it causes the fabric of space to warp , to curve .
and that communicates the force of gravity .
even the earth warps space around it . now look at the moon . the moon is kept in orbit , according to these ideas , because it rolls along a valley in the curved environment that the sun and the moon and the earth can all create by virtue of their presence . we go to a full-frame view of this . the earth itself is kept in orbit because it rolls along a valley in the environment that 's curved because of the sun 's presence . that is this new idea about how gravity actually works . now , this idea was tested in 1919 through astronomical observations . it really works . it describes the data .
and this gained einstein prominence around the world . and that is what got kaluza thinking . he , like einstein , was in search of what we call a unified theory . that 's one theory that might be able to describe all of nature 's forces from one set of ideas , one set of principles , one master equation , if you will .
so kaluza said to himself , einstein has been able to describe gravity in terms of warps and curves in space -- in fact , space and time , to be more precise .
maybe i can play the same game with the other known force , which was , at that time , known as the electromagnetic force --
we know of others today , but at that time that was the only other one people were thinking about .
you know , the force responsible for electricity and magnetic attraction and so forth . so kaluza says , maybe i can play the same game and describe electromagnetic force in terms of warps and curves . that raised a question : warps and curves in what ?
einstein had already used up space and time , warps and curves , to describe gravity . there didn 't seem to be anything else to warp or curve . so kaluza said , well , maybe there are more dimensions of space . he said , if i want to describe one more force , maybe i need one more dimension . so he imagined that the world had four dimensions of space , not three , and imagined that electromagnetism was warps and curves in that fourth dimension . now here 's the thing : when he wrote down the equations describing warps and curves in a universe with four space dimensions , not three , he found the old equations that einstein had already derived in three dimensions -- those were for gravity -- but he found one more equation because of the one more dimension .
and when he looked at that equation ,
it was none other than the equation that scientists had long known to describe the electromagnetic force . amazing -- it just popped out .
he was so excited by this realization that he ran around his house screaming , " victory ! " --
that he had found the unified theory .
now clearly , kaluza was a man who took theory very seriously . he , in fact --
there is a story that when he wanted to learn how to swim , he read a book , a treatise on swimming --
-- then dove into the ocean . this is a man who would risk his life on theory . now , but for those of us who are a little bit more practically minded , two questions immediately arise from his observation .
number one : if there are more dimensions in space , where are they ?
we don 't seem to see them .
and number two : does this theory really work in detail , when you try to apply it to the world around us ?
now , the first question was answered in 1926 by a fellow named oskar klein .
he suggested that dimensions might come in two varieties --
there might be big , easy-to-see dimensions , but there might also be tiny , curled-up dimensions , curled up so small , even though they 're all around us , that we don 't see them .
let me show you that one visually . so , imagine you 're looking at something like a cable supporting a traffic light .
it 's in manhattan . you 're in central park -- it 's kind of irrelevant -- but the cable looks one-dimensional from a distant viewpoint , but you and i all know that it does have some thickness .
it 's very hard to see it , though , from far away .
but if we zoom in and take the perspective of , say , a little ant walking around --
little ants are so small that they can access all of the dimensions -- the long dimension , but also this clockwise , counter-clockwise direction . and i hope you appreciate this . it took so long to get these ants to do this . but this illustrates the fact that dimensions can be of two sorts : big and small . and the idea that maybe the big dimensions around us are the ones that we can easily see , but there might be additional dimensions curled up , sort of like the circular part of that cable , so small that they have so far remained invisible .
let me show you what that would look like .
so , if we take a look , say , at space itself --
i can only show , of course , two dimensions on a screen .
some of you guys will fix that one day , but anything that 's not flat on a screen is a new dimension , goes smaller , smaller , smaller , and way down in the microscopic depths of space itself , this is the idea , you could have additional curled up dimensions --
here is a little shape of a circle -- so small that we don 't see them .
but if you were a little ultra microscopic ant walking around , you could walk in the big dimensions that we all know about -- that 's like the grid part -- but you could also access the tiny curled-up dimension that 's so small that we can 't see it with the naked eye or even with any of our most refined equipment .
but deeply tucked into the fabric of space itself , the idea is there could be more dimensions , as we see there .
now that 's an explanation about how the universe could have more dimensions than the ones that we see .
but what about the second question that i asked : does the theory actually work when you try to apply it to the real world ?
well , it turns out that einstein and kaluza and many others worked on trying to refine this framework and apply it to the physics of the universe as was understood at the time , and , in detail , it didn 't work .
in detail , for instance , they couldn 't get the mass of the electron to work out correctly in this theory .
so many people worked on it , but by the ' 40s , certainly by the ' 50s , this strange but very compelling idea of how to unify the laws of physics had gone away .
until something wonderful happened in our age .
in our era , a new approach to unify the laws of physics is being pursued by physicists such as myself , many others around the world , it 's called superstring theory , as you were indicating .
and the wonderful thing is that superstring theory has nothing to do at first sight with this idea of extra dimensions , but when we study superstring theory , we find that it resurrects the idea in a sparkling , new form .
so , let me just tell you how that goes .
superstring theory -- what is it ?
well , it 's a theory that tries to answer the question : what are the basic , fundamental , indivisible , uncuttable constituents making up everything in the world around us ?
the idea is like this .
so , imagine we look at a familiar object , just a candle in a holder , and imagine that we want to figure out what it is made of .
so we go on a journey deep inside the object and examine the constituents .
so deep inside -- we all know , you go sufficiently far down , you have atoms .
we also all know that atoms are not the end of the story .
they have little electrons that swarm around a central nucleus with neutrons and protons .
even the neutrons and protons have smaller particles inside of them known as quarks . that is where conventional ideas stop .
here is the new idea of string theory .
deep inside any of these particles , there is something else .
this something else is this dancing filament of energy .
it looks like a vibrating string -- that 's where the idea , string theory comes from . and just like the vibrating strings that you just saw in a cello can vibrate in different patterns , these can also vibrate in different patterns .
they don 't produce different musical notes .
rather , they produce the different particles making up the world around us .
so if these ideas are correct , this is what the ultra-microscopic landscape of the universe looks like .
it 's built up of a huge number of these little tiny filaments of vibrating energy , vibrating in different frequencies .
the different frequencies produce the different particles .
the different particles are responsible for all the richness in the world around us .
and there you see unification , because matter particles , electrons and quarks , radiation particles , photons , gravitons , are all built up from one entity .
so matter and the forces of nature all are put together under the rubric of vibrating strings .
and that 's what we mean by a unified theory .
now here is the catch .
when you study the mathematics of string theory , you find that it doesn 't work in a universe that just has three dimensions of space .
it doesn 't work in a universe with four dimensions of space , nor five , nor six .
finally , you can study the equations , and show that it works only in a universe that has 10 dimensions of space and one dimension of time .
it leads us right back to this idea of kaluza and klein -- that our world , when appropriately described , has more dimensions than the ones that we see .
now you might think about that and say , well , ok , you know , if you have extra dimensions , and they 're really tightly curled up , yeah , perhaps we won 't see them , if they 're small enough .
but if there 's a little tiny civilization of green people walking around down there , and you make them small enough , and we won 't see them either . that is true .
one of the other predictions of string theory --
no , that 's not one of the other predictions of string theory . but it raises the question : are we just trying to hide away these extra dimensions , or do they tell us something about the world ?
in the remaining time , i 'd like to tell you two features of them .
first is , many of us believe that these extra dimensions hold the answer to what perhaps is the deepest question in theoretical physics , theoretical science .
and that question is this : when we look around the world , as scientists have done for the last hundred years , there appear to be about 20 numbers that really describe our universe .
these are numbers like the mass of the particles , like electrons and quarks , the strength of gravity , the strength of the electromagnetic force --
a list of about 20 numbers that have been measured with incredible precision , but nobody has an explanation for why the numbers have the particular values that they do .
now , does string theory offer an answer ?
not yet .
but we believe the answer for why those numbers have the values they do may rely on the form of the extra dimensions .
and the wonderful thing is , if those numbers had any other values than the known ones , the universe , as we know it , wouldn 't exist .
this is a deep question .
why are those numbers so finely tuned to allow stars to shine and planets to form , when we recognize that if you fiddle with those numbers --
if i had 20 dials up here and i let you come up and fiddle with those numbers , almost any fiddling makes the universe disappear .
so can we explain those 20 numbers ?
and string theory suggests that those 20 numbers have to do with the extra dimensions .
let me show you how .
so when we talk about the extra dimensions in string theory , it 's not one extra dimension , as in the older ideas of kaluza and klein .
this is what string theory says about the extra dimensions .
they have a very rich , intertwined geometry .
this is an example of something known as a calabi-yau shape --
name isn 't all that important .
but , as you can see , the extra dimensions fold in on themselves and intertwine in a very interesting shape , interesting structure .
and the idea is that if this is what the extra dimensions look like , then the microscopic landscape of our universe all around us would look like this on the tiniest of scales .
when you swing your hand , you 'd be moving around these extra dimensions over and over again , but they 're so small that we wouldn 't know it .
so what is the physical implication , though , relevant to those 20 numbers ?
consider this . if you look at the instrument , a french horn , notice that the vibrations of the airstreams are affected by the shape of the instrument .
now in string theory , all the numbers are reflections of the way strings can vibrate .
so just as those airstreams are affected by the twists and turns in the instrument , strings themselves will be affected by the vibrational patterns in the geometry within which they are moving .
so let me bring some strings into the story .
and if you watch these little fellows vibrating around --
they 'll be there in a second -- right there , notice that they way they vibrate is affected by the geometry of the extra dimensions .
so , if we knew exactly what the extra dimensions look like -- we don 't yet , but if we did -- we should be able to calculate the allowed notes , the allowed vibrational patterns .
and if we could calculate the allowed vibrational patterns , we should be able to calculate those 20 numbers .
and if the answer that we get from our calculations agrees with the values of those numbers that have been determined through detailed and precise experimentation , this in many ways would be the first fundamental explanation for why the structure of the universe is the way it is .
now , the second issue that i want to finish up with is : how might we test for these extra dimensions more directly ?
is this just an interesting mathematical structure that might be able to explain some previously unexplained features of the world , or can we actually test for these extra dimensions ?
and we think -- and this is , i think , very exciting -- that in the next five years or so we may be able to test for the existence of these extra dimensions .
here 's how it goes . in cern , geneva , switzerland , a machine is being built called the large hadron collider .
it 's a machine that will send particles around a tunnel , opposite directions , near the speed of light .
every so often those particles will be aimed at each other , so there 's a head-on collision .
the hope is that if the collision has enough energy , it may eject some of the debris from the collision from our dimensions , forcing it to enter into the other dimensions .
how would we know it ?
well , we 'll measure the amount of energy after the collision , compare it to the amount of energy before , and if there 's less energy after the collision than before , this will be evidence that the energy has drifted away .
and if it drifts away in the right pattern that we can calculate , this will be evidence that the extra dimensions are there .
let me show you that idea visually .
so , imagine we have a certain kind of particle called a graviton --
that 's the kind of debris we expect to be ejected out , if the extra dimensions are real .
but here 's how the experiment will go .
you take these particles . you slam them together .
you slam them together , and if we are right , some of the energy of that collision will go into debris that flies off into these extra dimensions .
so this is the kind of experiment that we 'll be looking at in the next five , seven to 10 years or so .
and if this experiment bears fruit , if we see that kind of particle ejected by noticing that there 's less energy in our dimensions than when we began , this will show that the extra dimensions are real .
and to me this is a really remarkable story , and a remarkable opportunity . going back to newton with absolute space --
didn 't provide anything but an arena , a stage in which the events of the universe take place .
einstein comes along and says , well , space and time can warp and curve -- that 's what gravity is .
and now string theory comes along and says , yes , gravity , quantum mechanics , electromagnetism ,
all together in one package , but only if the universe has more dimensions than the ones that we see . and this is an experiment that may test for them in our lifetime .
amazing possibility .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / beau _ lotto _ optical _ illusions _ show _ how _ we _ see.html
beau lotto 's color games puzzle your vision , but they also spotlight what you can 't normally see : how your brain works . this fun , first-hand look at your own versatile sense of sight reveals how evolution tints your perception of what 's really out there .
art , brain , consciousness , mind , psychology , science , visualizations
653
beau lotto : optical illusions show how we see
i want to start with a game .
and to win this game , all you have to do is see the reality that 's in front of you as it really is . all right ?
so , we have two panels here , of colored dots .
and one of those dots is the same in the two panels . okay ?
and you have to tell me which one .
now , narrow it down to the gray one , the green one and , say , the orange one .
so , by a show of hands -- we 'll start with the easiest one -- show of hands : how many people think it 's the gray one ?
really ? okay .
how many people think it 's the green one ?
and how many people think it 's the orange one ?
pretty even split .
let 's find out what the reality is .
here is the orange one .
here is the green one .
and here is the gray one .
so , for all of you who saw that , you 're a complete realist . all right ?
so , this is pretty amazing , actually , isn 't it ?
because nearly every living system has evolved the ability to detect light in one way or another .
so , for us , seeing color is one of the simplest things the brain does .
and yet , even at this most fundamental level , context is everything .
what i want to talk about is not that context is everything , but why is context everything .
because it 's answering that question that tells us not only why we see what we do , but who we are as individuals , and who we are as a society .
but first , we have to ask another question , which is , " what is color for ? "
and instead of telling you , i 'll just show you .
what you see here is a jungle scene ,
and you see the surfaces according to the amount of light that those surfaces reflect .
now , can any of you see the predator that 's about to jump out at you ?
and if you haven 't seen it yet , you 're dead . right ?
can anyone see it ? anyone ? no ?
now , let 's see the surfaces according to the quality of light that they reflect .
and now you see it .
so , color enables us to see the similarities and differences between surfaces , according to the full spectrum of light that they reflect .
but what you 've just done is , in many respects , mathematically impossible .
why ? because , as berkeley tells us , we have no direct access to our physical world , other than through our senses .
and the light that falls onto our eyes is determined by multiple things in the world -- not only the color of objects , but also the color of their illumination , and the color of the space between us and those objects .
you vary any one of those parameters , and you 'll change the color of the light that falls onto your eye .
this is a huge problem because it means that the same image could have an infinite number of possible real-world sources .
so let me show you what i mean . imagine that this is the back of your eye .
and these are two projections from the world .
they are identical in every single way .
identical in shape , size , spectral content . they are the same , as far as your eye is concerned .
and yet they come from completely different sources .
the one on the right comes from a yellow surface , in shadow , oriented facing the left , viewed through a pinkish medium .
the one on the left comes from an orange surface , under direct light , facing to the right , viewed through a sort of a bluish medium .
completely different meanings , giving rise to the exact same retinal information .
and yet it 's only the retinal information that we get .
so how on earth do we even see ?
so , if you remember anything in this next 18 minutes , remember this : that the light that falls on to your eye , sensory information , is meaningless ,
because it could mean literally anything .
and what 's true for sensory information is true for information generally .
there is no inherent meaning in information .
it 's what we do with that information that matters .
so , how do we see ? well , we see by learning to see .
so , the brain evolved the mechanisms for finding patterns , finding relationships in information and associating those relationships with a behavioral meaning , a significance , by interacting with the world .
we 're very aware of this in the form of more cognitive attributes , like language .
so , i 'm going to give you some letter strings . and i want you to read them out for me , if you can .
audience : " can you read this ? "
" you are not reading this . "
" what are you reading ? "
beau lotto : " what are you reading ? " half the letters are missing . right ?
there is no a priori reason why an " h " has to go between that " w " and " a. "
but you put one there . why ?
because in the statistics of your past experience it would have been useful to do so . so you do so again .
and yet you don 't put a letter after that first " t. "
why ? because it wouldn 't have been useful in the past .
so you don 't do it again .
so let me show you how quickly our brains can redefine normality ,
even at the simplest thing the brain does , which is color .
so , if i could have the lights down up here .
i want you to first notice that those two desert scenes are physically the same .
one is simply the flipping of the other . okay ?
now i want you to look at that dot between the green and the red . okay ?
and i want you to stare at that dot . don 't look anywhere else .
and we 're going to look at that for about 30 seconds ,
which is a bit of a killer in an 18-minute talk .
but i really want you to learn .
and i 'll tell you -- don 't look anywhere else -- and i 'll tell you what 's happening inside your head .
your brain is learning . and it 's learning that the right side of its visual field is under red illumination ; the left side of its visual field is under green illumination .
that 's what it 's learning . okay ?
now , when i tell you , i want you to look at the dot between the two desert scenes .
so why don 't you do that now ?
can i have the lights up again ?
i take it from your response they don 't look the same anymore . right ?
why ? because your brain is seeing that same information as if the right one is still under red light , and the left one is still under green light .
that 's your new normal .
so , what does this mean for context ?
it means that i can take these two identical squares , and i can put them in light and dark surrounds .
and now the one on the dark surround looks lighter than the one on the light surround .
what 's significant is not simply the light and dark surrounds that matter .
it 's what those light and dark surrounds meant for your behavior in the past .
so i 'll show you what i mean . here we have that exact same illusion .
we have two identical tiles , on the left , one in a dark surround , one in a light surround .
and the same thing over on the right .
now , what i 'm going to do is i 'm going to review those two scenes .
but i 'm not going to change anything within those boxes , except their meaning .
and see what happens to your perception .
notice that on the left the two tiles look nearly completely opposite : one very white and one very dark .
all right ? whereas on the right , the two tiles look nearly the same .
and yet there is still one on a dark surround and one on a light surround .
why ? because if the tile in that shadow were in fact in shadow , and reflecting the same amount of light to your eye as the one outside the shadow , it would have to be more reflective -- just the laws of physics .
so you see it that way .
whereas on the right , the information is consistent with those two tiles being under the same light .
if they are under the same light , reflecting the same amount of light to your eye , then they must be equally reflective .
so you see it that way .
which means we can bring all this information together to create some incredibly strong illusions .
this is one i made a few years ago .
and you 'll notice you see a dark brown tile at the top , and a bright orange tile at the side .
that is your perceptual reality . the physical reality is that those two tiles are the same .
here you see four gray tiles on your left , seven gray tiles on the right .
i 'm not going to change those tiles at all ,
but i 'm going to reveal the rest of the scene
and see what happens to your perception .
the four blue tiles on the left are gray .
the seven yellow tiles on the right are also gray .
they are the same . okay ?
don 't believe me ? let 's watch it again .
what 's true for color is also true for complex perceptions of motion .
so here we have -- let 's turn this around -- a diamond .
and what i 'm going to do is , i 'm going to hold it here , and i 'm going to spin it . and for all of you , you 'll see it probably spinning this direction .
now i want you to keep looking at it .
move your eyes around , blink , maybe close one eye .
and suddenly it will flip , and start spinning the opposite direction .
yes ? raise your hand if you got that . yes ?
keep blinking . every time you blink it will switch . alright ?
so i can ask you , which direction is it rotating ?
how do you know ?
your brain doesn 't know . because both are equally likely .
so depending on where it looks , it flips between the two possibilities .
are we the only ones that see illusions ?
the answer to this question is no .
even the beautiful bumblebee , with its mere one million brain cells , which is 250 times fewer cells than you have in one retina , sees illusions , does the most complicated things that even our most sophisticated computers can 't do .
so in my lab , we of course work on bumblebees .
because we can completely control their experience , and see how that alters the architecture of their brain .
and we do this in what we call the bee matrix .
and here you have the hive . you can see the queen bee , that large bee in the middle there . those are all her daughters , the eggs .
and they go back and forth between this hive and the arena , via this tube .
and you 'll see one of the bees come out here .
you see how she has a little number on her ?
yeah there is another one coming out . she has another number on her .
now , they are not born that way . right ?
we pull them out , put them in the fridge , and they fall asleep .
and then you can superglue little numbers on them .
and now , in this experiment they get rewarded if they go to the blue flowers .
and they land on the flower . they stick their tongue in there , called a proboscis , and they drink sugar water .
now she is drinking a glass of water that 's about that big to you and i , will do that about three times , and then fly .
and sometimes they learn not to go to the blue , but to go to where the other bees go .
so they copy each other . they can count to five . they can recognize faces .
and here she comes down the ladder .
and she 'll come into the hive , find an empty honey pot and throw up , and that 's honey .
now remember -- -- she 's supposed to be going to the blue flowers .
but what are these bees doing in the upper right corner ?
it looks like they 're going to green flowers .
now , are they getting it wrong ?
and the answer to the question is no . those are actually blue flowers .
but those are blue flowers under green light .
so they are using the relationships between the colors to solve the puzzle ,
which is exactly what we do .
so , illusions are often used , especially in art , in the words of a more contemporary artist , " to demonstrate the fragility of our senses . "
okay , this is complete rubbish .
the senses aren 't fragile . and if they were , we wouldn 't be here .
instead , color tells us something completely different , that the brain didn 't actually evolve to see the world the way it is .
we can 't . instead , the brain evolved to see the world the way it was useful to see in the past .
and how we see is by continually redefining normality .
so how can we take this incredible capacity of plasticity of the brain and get people to experience their world differently ?
well , one of the ways we do in my lab and studio is we translate the light into sound and we enable people to hear their visual world .
and they can navigate the world using their ears .
here is david , in the right . and he is holding a camera .
on the left is what his camera sees .
and you 'll see there is a line , a faint line going across that image .
that line is broken up into 32 squares .
in each square we calculate the average color .
and then we just simply translate that into sound .
and now he 's going to turn around , close his eyes , and find a plate on the ground with his eyes closed .
he finds it . amazing . right ?
so not only can we create a prosthetic for the visually impaired , but we can also investigate how people literally make sense of the world .
but we can also do something else . we can also make music with color .
so , working with kids , they created images , thinking about what might the images you see sound like if we could listen to them .
and then we translated these images .
and this is one of those images .
and this is a six-year-old child composing a piece of music for a 32-piece orchestra . and this is what it sounds like .
so , a six-year-old child . okay ?
now , what does all this mean ?
what this suggests is that no one is an outside observer of nature . okay ?
we are not defined by our central properties , by the bits that make us up .
we 're defined by our environment and our interaction with that environment -- by our ecology .
and that ecology is necessarily relative , historical and empirical .
so what i 'd like to finish with is this over here .
because what i 've been trying to do is really celebrate uncertainty .
because i think only through uncertainty is there potential for understanding .
so , if some of you are still feeling a bit too certain , i 'd like to do this one .
so , if we have the lights down .
and what we have here -- can everyone see 25 purple surfaces on your left , and 25 , call it yellowish , surfaces on your right ?
so , now , what i want to do : i 'm going to put the middle nine surfaces here under yellow illumination by simply putting a filter behind them .
all right . now you can see that changes the light that 's coming through there . right ?
because now the light is going through a yellowish filter and then a purplish filter . i 'm going to do this opposite on the left here .
i 'm going to put the middle nine under a purplish light .
now , some of you will notice that the consequence is that the light coming through those middle nine on the right , or your left , is exactly the same as the light coming through the middle nine on your right .
agreed ? yes ?
okay . so they are physically the same .
let 's pull the covers off .
now remember , you know the middle nine are exactly the same .
do they look the same ? no .
the question is , " is that an illusion ? "
and i 'll leave you with that .
so , thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / bruce _ schneier.html
the feeling of security and the reality of security don 't always match , says computer-security expert bruce schneier . at tedxpsu , he explains why we spend billions addressing news story risks , like the " security theater " now playing at your local airport , while neglecting more probable risks -- and how we can break this pattern .
culture , global issues , security , technology
1132
bruce schneier : the security mirage
so security is two different things : it 's a feeling , and it 's a reality .
and they 're different .
you could feel secure even if you 're not .
and you can be secure even if you don 't feel it .
really , we have two separate concepts mapped onto the same word .
and what i want to do in this talk is to split them apart -- figuring out when they diverge and how they converge .
and language is actually a problem here . there aren 't a lot of good words for the concepts we 're going to talk about .
so if you look at security from economic terms , it 's a trade-off .
every time you get some security , you 're always trading off something .
whether this is a personal decision -- whether you 're going to install a burglar alarm in your home -- or a national decision -- where you 're going to invade some foreign country -- you 're going to trade off something , either money or time , convenience , capabilities , maybe fundamental liberties .
and the question to ask when you look at a security anything is not whether this makes us safer , but whether it 's worth the trade-off .
you 've heard in the past several years , the world is safer because saddam hussein is not in power .
that might be true , but it 's not terribly relevant .
the question is , was it worth it ?
and you can make your own decision , and then you 'll decide whether the invasion was worth it .
that 's how you think about security -- in terms of the trade-off .
now there 's often no right or wrong here .
some of us have a burglar alarm system at home , and some of us don 't .
and it 'll depend on where we live , whether we live alone or have a family , how much cool stuff we have , how much we 're willing to accept the risk of theft .
in politics also , there are different opinions .
a lot of times , these trade-offs are about more than just security , and i think that 's really important .
now people have a natural intuition about these trade-offs .
we make them every day -- last night in my hotel room , when i decided to double-lock the door , or you in your car when you drove here , when we go eat lunch and decide the food 's not poison and we 'll eat it .
we make these trade-offs again and again , multiple times a day .
we often won 't even notice them .
they 're just part of being alive ; we all do it . every species does it .
imagine a rabbit in a field , eating grass , and the rabbit 's going to see a fox .
that rabbit will make a security trade-off : " should i stay , or should i flee ? "
and if you think about it , the rabbits that are good at making that trade-off will tend to live and reproduce , and the rabbits that are bad at it will get eaten or starve .
so you 'd think that us , as a successful species on the planet -- you , me , everybody -- would be really good at making these trade-offs .
yet it seems , again and again , that we 're hopelessly bad at it .
and i think that 's a fundamentally interesting question .
i 'll give you the short answer .
the answer is , we respond to the feeling of security and not the reality .
now most of the time , that works .
most of the time , feeling and reality are the same .
certainly that 's true for most of human prehistory .
we 've developed this ability because it makes evolutionary sense .
one way to think of it is that we 're highly optimized for risk decisions that are endemic to living in small family groups in the east african highlands in 100,000 b.c. 2010 new york , not so much .
now there are several biases in risk perception .
a lot of good experiments in this .
and you can see certain biases that come up again and again .
so i 'll give you four .
we tend to exaggerate spectacular and rare risks and downplay common risks -- so flying versus driving .
the unknown is perceived to be riskier than the familiar .
one example would be , people fear kidnapping by strangers when the data supports kidnapping by relatives is much more common .
this is for children .
third , personified risks are perceived to be greater than anonymous risks -- so bin laden is scarier because he has a name .
and the fourth is people underestimate risks in situations they do control and overestimate them in situations they don 't control .
so once you take up skydiving or smoking , you downplay the risks .
if a risk is thrust upon you -- terrorism was a good example -- you 'll overplay it because you don 't feel like it 's in your control .
there are a bunch of other of these biases , these cognitive biases , that affect our risk decisions .
there 's the availability heuristic , which basically means we estimate the probability of something by how easy it is to bring instances of it to mind .
so you can imagine how that works .
if you hear a lot about tiger attacks , there must be a lot of tigers around .
you don 't hear about lion attacks , there aren 't a lot of lions around .
this works until you invent newspapers . because what newspapers do is they repeat again and again rare risks .
i tell people , if it 's in the news , don 't worry about it .
because by definition , news is something that almost never happens .
when something is so common , it 's no longer news -- car crashes , domestic violence -- those are the risks you worry about .
we 're also a species of storytellers .
we respond to stories more than data .
and there 's some basic innumeracy going on .
i mean , the joke " one , two , three , many " is kind of right .
we 're really good at small numbers .
one mango , two mangoes , three mangoes , 10,000 mangoes , 100,000 mangoes -- it 's still more mangoes you can eat before they rot .
so one half , one quarter , one fifth -- we 're good at that .
one in a million , one in a billion -- they 're both almost never .
so we have trouble with the risks that aren 't very common .
and what these cognitive biases do is they act as filters between us and reality .
and the result is that feeling and reality get out of whack , they get different .
now you either have a feeling -- you feel more secure than you are .
there 's a false sense of security .
or the other way , and that 's a false sense of insecurity .
i write a lot about " security theater , " which are products that make people feel secure , but don 't actually do anything .
there 's no real word for stuff that makes us secure , but doesn 't make us feel secure .
maybe it 's what the cia 's supposed to do for us .
so back to economics .
if economics , if the market , drives security , and if people make trade-offs based on the feeling of security , then the smart thing for companies to do for the economic incentives are to make people feel secure .
and there are two ways to do this .
one , you can make people actually secure and hope they notice .
or two , you can make people just feel secure and hope they don 't notice .
so what makes people notice ?
well a couple of things : understanding of the security , of the risks , the threats , the countermeasures , how they work .
but if you know stuff , you 're more likely to have your feelings match reality .
enough real world examples helps .
now we all know the crime rate in our neighborhood , because we live there , and we get a feeling about it that basically matches reality .
security theater 's exposed when it 's obvious that it 's not working properly .
okay , so what makes people not notice ?
well , a poor understanding .
if you don 't understand the risks , you don 't understand the costs , you 're likely to get the trade-off wrong , and your feeling doesn 't match reality .
not enough examples . there 's an inherent problem with low probability events .
if , for example , terrorism almost never happens , it 's really hard to judge the efficacy of counter-terrorist measures .
this is why you keep sacrificing virgins , and why your unicorn defenses are working just great .
there aren 't enough examples of failures .
also , feelings that are clouding the issues -- the cognitive biases i talked about earlier , fears , folk beliefs , basically an inadequate model of reality .
so let me complicate things .
i have feeling and reality .
i want to add a third element . i want to add model .
feeling and model in our head , reality is the outside world .
it doesn 't change ; it 's real .
so feeling is based on our intuition .
model is based on reason .
that 's basically the difference .
in a primitive and simple world , there 's really no reason for a model
because feeling is close to reality .
you don 't need a model .
but in a modern and complex world , you need models to understand a lot of the risks we face .
there 's no feeling about germs .
you need a model to understand them .
so this model is an intelligent representation of reality .
it 's , of course , limited by science , by technology .
we couldn 't have a germ theory of disease before we invented the microscope to see them .
it 's limited by our cognitive biases .
but it has the ability to override our feelings .
where do we get these models ? we get them from others .
we get them from religion , from culture , teachers , elders .
a couple years ago , i was in south africa on safari .
the tracker i was with grew up in kruger national park .
he had some very complex models of how to survive .
and it depended on if you were attacked by a lion or a leopard or a rhino or an elephant -- and when you had to run away , and when you couldn 't run away , and when you had to climb a tree -- when you could never climb a tree .
i would have died in a day , but he was born there , and he understood how to survive .
i was born in new york city .
i could have taken him to new york , and he would have died in a day .
because we had different models based on our different experiences .
models can come from the media , from our elected officials .
think of models of terrorism , child kidnapping , airline safety , car safety .
models can come from industry .
the two i 'm following are surveillance cameras , id cards , quite a lot of our computer security models come from there .
a lot of models come from science .
health models are a great example .
think of cancer , of bird flu , swine flu , sars .
all of our feelings of security about those diseases come from models given to us , really , by science filtered through the media .
so models can change .
models are not static .
as we become more comfortable in our environments , our model can move closer to our feelings .
so an example might be , if you go back 100 years ago when electricity was first becoming common , there were a lot of fears about it .
i mean , there were people who were afraid to push doorbells , because there was electricity in there , and that was dangerous .
for us , we 're very facile around electricity .
we change light bulbs without even thinking about it .
our model of security around electricity is something we were born into .
it hasn 't changed as we were growing up .
and we 're good at it .
or think of the risks on the internet across generations -- how your parents approach internet security , versus how you do , versus how our kids will .
models eventually fade into the background .
intuitive is just another word for familiar .
so as your model is close to reality , and it converges with feelings , you often don 't know it 's there .
so a nice example of this came from last year and swine flu .
when swine flu first appeared , the initial news caused a lot of overreaction .
now it had a name , which made it scarier than the regular flu , even though it was more deadly .
and people thought doctors should be able to deal with it .
so there was that feeling of lack of control .
and those two things made the risk more than it was .
as the novelty wore off , the months went by , there was some amount of tolerance , people got used to it .
there was no new data , but there was less fear .
by autumn , people thought the doctors should have solved this already .
and there 's kind of a bifurcation -- people had to choose between fear and acceptance -- actually fear and indifference -- they kind of chose suspicion .
and when the vaccine appeared last winter , there were a lot of people -- a surprising number -- who refused to get it -- as a nice example of how people 's feelings of security change , how their model changes , sort of wildly with no new information , with no new input .
this kind of thing happens a lot .
i 'm going to give one more complication .
we have feeling , model , reality .
i have a very relativistic view of security .
i think it depends on the observer .
and most security decisions have a variety of people involved .
and stakeholders with specific trade-offs will try to influence the decision .
and i call that their agenda .
and you see agenda -- this is marketing , this is politics -- trying to convince you to have one model versus another , trying to convince you to ignore a model and trust your feelings , marginalizing people with models you don 't like .
this is not uncommon . an example , a great example , is the risk of smoking .
in the history of the past 50 years , the smoking risk shows how a model changes , and it also shows how an industry fights against a model it doesn 't like .
compare that to the secondhand smoke debate -- probably about 20 years behind .
think about seat belts .
when i was a kid , no one wore a seat belt .
nowadays , no kid will let you drive if you 're not wearing a seat belt .
compare that to the airbag debate -- probably about 30 years behind .
all examples of models changing .
what we learn is that changing models is hard .
models are hard to dislodge .
if they equal your feelings , you don 't even know you have a model .
and there 's another cognitive bias i 'll call confirmation bias , where we tend to accept data that confirms our beliefs and reject data that contradicts our beliefs .
so evidence against our model , we 're likely to ignore , even if it 's compelling .
it has to get very compelling before we 'll pay attention .
new models that extend long periods of time are hard .
global warming is a great example .
we 're terrible at models that span 80 years .
we can do to the next harvest .
we can often do until our kids grow up .
but 80 years , we 're just not good at .
so it 's a very hard model to accept .
we can have both models in our head simultaneously , right , that kind of problem where we 're holding both beliefs together , right , the cognitive dissonance .
eventually , the new model will replace the old model .
strong feelings can create a model .
september 11th created a security model in a lot of people 's heads .
also , personal experiences with crime can do it , personal health scare , a health scare in the news .
you 'll see these called flashbulb events by psychiatrists .
they can create a model instantaneously , because they 're very emotive .
so in the technological world , we don 't have experience to judge models .
and we rely on others . we rely on proxies .
i mean , this works as long as it 's to correct others .
we rely on government agencies to tell us what pharmaceuticals are safe .
i flew here yesterday . i didn 't check the airplane .
i relied on some other group to determine whether my plane was safe to fly .
we 're here , none of us fear the roof is going to collapse on us , not because we checked , but because we 're pretty sure the building codes here are good .
it 's a model we just accept pretty much by faith .
and that 's okay .
now , what we want is people to get familiar enough with better models -- have it reflected in their feelings -- to allow them to make security trade-offs .
now when these go out of whack , you have two options .
one , you can fix people 's feelings , directly appeal to feelings .
it 's manipulation , but it can work .
the second , more honest way is to actually fix the model .
change happens slowly .
the smoking debate took 40 years , and that was an easy one .
some of this stuff is hard .
i mean really though , information seems like our best hope .
and i lied .
remember i said feeling , model , reality ;
i said reality doesn 't change . it actually does .
we live in a technological world ; reality changes all the time .
so we might have -- for the first time in our species -- feeling chases model , model chases reality , reality 's moving -- they might never catch up .
we don 't know .
but in the long-term , both feeling and reality are important .
and i want to close with two quick stories to illustrate this .
1982 -- i don 't know if people will remember this -- there was a short epidemic of tylenol poisonings in the united states .
it 's a horrific story . someone took a bottle of tylenol , put poison in it , closed it up , put it back on the shelf .
someone else bought it and died .
this terrified people .
there were a couple of copycat attacks .
there wasn 't any real risk , but people were scared .
and this is how the tamper-proof drug industry was invented .
those tamper-proof caps , that came from this .
it 's complete security theater .
as a homework assignment , think of 10 ways to get around it .
i 'll give you one , a syringe .
but it made people feel better .
it made their feeling of security more match the reality .
last story , a few years ago , a friend of mine gave birth .
i visit her in the hospital .
it turns out when a baby 's born now , they put an rfid bracelet on the baby , put a corresponding one on the mother , so if anyone other than the mother takes the baby out of the maternity ward , an alarm goes off .
i said , " well , that 's kind of neat .
i wonder how rampant baby snatching is out of hospitals . "
i go home , i look it up .
it basically never happens .
but if you think about it , if you are a hospital , and you need to take a baby away from its mother , out of the room to run some tests , you better have some good security theater , or she 's going to rip your arm off .
so it 's important for us , those of us who design security , who look at security policy , or even look at public policy in ways that affect security .
it 's not just reality ; it 's feeling and reality .
what 's important is that they be about the same . it 's important that , if our feelings match reality , we make better security trade-offs .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jonathan _ drori _ why _ we _ re _ storing _ billions _ of _ seeds.html
in this brief talk from ted u 2009 , jonathan drori encourages us to save biodiversity -- one seed at a time . reminding us that plants support human life , he shares the vision of the millennium seed bank , which has stored over 3 billion seeds to date from dwindling yet essential plant species .
biodiversity , biology , biosphere , environment , future , life , science
556
jonathan drori : why we 're storing billions of seeds
all human life , all life , depends on plants .
let me try to convince you of that in a few seconds .
just think for a moment .
it doesn 't matter whether you live in a small african village , or you live in a big city , everything comes back to plants in the end :
whether it 's for the food , the medicine , the fuel , the construction , the clothing , all the obvious things ; or whether it 's for the spiritual and recreational things that matter to us so much ; or whether it 's soil formation , or the effect on the atmosphere , or primary production .
damn it , even the books here are made out of plants .
all these things , they come back to plants .
and without them we wouldn 't be here .
now plants are under threat .
they 're under threat because of changing climate .
and they are also under threat because they are sharing a planet with people like us .
and people like us want to do things that destroy plants , and their habitats .
and whether that 's because of food production , or because of the introduction of alien plants into places that they really oughtn 't be , or because of habitats being used for other purposes -- all these things are meaning that plants have to adapt , or die , or move .
and plants sometimes find it rather difficult to move because there might be cities and other things in the way .
so if all human life depends on plants , doesn 't it make sense that perhaps we should try to save them ?
i think it does .
and i want to tell you about a project to save plants .
and the way that you save plants is by storing seeds .
because seeds , in all their diverse glory , are plants ' futures .
all the genetic information for future generations of plants are held in seeds .
so here is the building ;
it looks rather unassuming , really .
but it goes down below ground many stories .
and it 's the largest seed bank in the world .
it exists not only in southern england , but distributed around the world . i 'll come to that .
this is a nuclear-proof facility .
god forbid that it should have to withstand that .
so if you 're going to build a seed bank , you have to decide what you 're going to store in it . right ?
and we decided that what we want to store first of all , are the species that are most under threat .
and those are the dry land species .
so first of all we did deals with 50 different countries .
it means negotiating with heads of state , and with secretaries of state in 50 countries to sign treaties .
we have 120 partner institutions all over the world , in all those countries colored orange .
people come from all over the world to learn ,
and then they go away and plan exactly how they 're going to collect these seeds .
they have thousands of people all over the world tagging places where those plants are said to exist .
they search for them . they find them in flower .
and they go back when their seeds have arrived .
and they collect the seeds . all over the world .
the seeds -- some of if is very untechnical .
you kind of shovel them all in to bags and dry them off .
you label them . you do some high-tech things here and there ,
some low-tech things here and there .
and the main thing is that you have to dry them very carefully , at low temperature .
and then you have to store them at about minus 20 degrees c -- that 's about minus four fahrenheit , i think -- with a very critically low moisture content .
and these seeds will be able to germinate , we believe , with many of the species , in thousands of years , and certainly in hundreds of years .
it 's no good storing the seeds if you don 't know they 're still viable .
so every 10 years we do germination tests on every sample of seeds that we have .
and this is a distributed network .
so all around the world people are doing the same thing .
and that enables us to develop germination protocols .
that means that we know the right combination of heat and cold and the cycles that you have to get to make the seed germinate .
and that is very useful information .
and then we grow these things ,
and we tell people , back in the countries where these seeds have come from , " look , actually we 're not just storing this to get the seeds later , but we can give you this information about how to germinate these difficult plants . "
and that 's already happening .
so where have we got to ?
i am pleased to unveil that our three billionth seed -- that 's three thousand millionth seed -- is now stored .
ten percent of all plant species on the planet ,
24,000 species are safe ;
30,000 species , if we get the funding , by next year .
twenty-five percent of all the world 's plants , by 2020 .
these are not just crop plants , as you might have seen stored in svalbard in norway --
fantastic work there .
this is at least 100 times bigger .
we have thousands of collections that have been sent out all over the world :
drought-tolerant forest species sent to pakistan and egypt ;
especially photosynthetic-efficient plants come here to the united states ;
salt-tolerant pasture species sent to australia ;
the list goes on and on .
these seeds are used for restoration .
so in habitats that have already been damaged ,
like the tall grass prairie here in the usa , or in mined land in various countries , restoration is already happening because of these species --
and because of this collection .
some of these plants , like the ones on the bottom to the left of your screen , they are down to the last few remaining members .
the one where the guy is collecting seeds there on the truck , that is down to about 30 last remaining trees .
fantastically useful plant , both for protein and for medicine .
we have training going on in china , in the usa , and many other countries .
how much does it cost ?
2,800 dollars per species is the average .
i think that 's cheap , at the price .
and that gets you all the scientific data that goes with it .
the future research is " how can we find the genetic and molecular markers for the viability of seeds , without having to plant them every 10 years ? "
and we 're almost there .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / joachim _ de _ posada _ says _ don _ t _ eat _ the _ marshmallow _ yet.html
in this short talk from ted u , joachim de posada shares a landmark experiment on delayed gratification -- and how it can predict future success . with priceless video of kids trying their hardest not to eat the marshmallow .
children , culture , humor , psychology
553
joachim de posada says , don 't eat the marshmallow yet
i 'm here because i have a very important message :
i think we have found
the most important factor for success .
and it was found close to here , stanford .
psychology professor took kids that were four years old
and put them in a room all by themselves .
and he would tell the child , a four-year-old kid ,
" johnny , i am going to leave you here with a marshmallow
for 15 minutes .
if , after i come back , this marshmallow is here , you will get another one . so you will have two . " to tell a four-year-old kid to wait 15 minutes for something that they like , is equivalent to telling us , " we 'll bring you coffee in two hours . " exact equivalent .
so what happened when the professor left the room ?
as soon as the door closed ...
two out of three ate the marshmallow .
five seconds , 10 seconds , 40 seconds , 50 seconds , two minutes , four minutes , eight minutes .
some lasted 14-and-a-half minutes .
couldn 't do it . could not wait .
what 's interesting is that one out of three would look at the marshmallow and go like this ...
would look at it .
put it back .
they would walk around . they would play with their skirts and pants .
that child already , at four , understood the most important principle for success ,
which is the ability to delay gratification .
self-discipline : the most important factor for success .
15 years later , 14 or 15 years later ,
follow-up study .
what did they find ?
they went to look for these kids who were now 18 and 19 .
and they found that 100 percent of the children that had not eaten the marshmallow were successful .
they had good grades . they were doing wonderful .
they were happy . they had their plans .
they had good relationships with the teachers , students .
they were doing fine .
a great percentage of the kids that ate the marshmallow , they were in trouble .
they did not make it to university .
they had bad grades . some of them dropped out .
a few were still there with bad grades .
a few had good grades .
i had a question in my mind : would hispanic kids
react the same way as the american kids ?
so i went to colombia . and i reproduced the experiment .
and it was very funny . i used four , five and six years old kids .
and let me show you what happened .
so what happened in colombia ?
hispanic kids , two out of three ate the marshmallow ;
one out of three did not .
this little girl was interesting ;
she ate the inside of the marshmallow .
in other words , she wanted us to think that she had not eaten it , so she would get two .
but she ate it .
so we know she 'll be successful . but we have to watch her .
she should not go into banking , for example ,
or work at a cash register .
but she will be successful .
and this applies for everything . even in sales .
the sales person that --
the customer says , " i want that . " and the person says , " okay , here you are . "
that person ate the marshmallow .
if the sales person says , " wait a second . let me ask you a few questions to see if this is a good choice . " then you sell a lot more .
so this has applications in all walks of life .
i end with -- the koreans did this . you know what ? this is so good that we want a marshmallow book for children .
we did one for children . and now it is all over korea .
they are teaching these kids exactly this principle .
and we need to learn that principle here in the states ,
because we have a big debt .
we are eating more marshmallows than we are producing .
thank you so much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jonas _ gahr _ store _ in _ defense _ of _ dialogue.html
in politics , it seems counterintuitive to engage in dialogue with violent groups , with radicals and terrorists , and with the states that support them . but jonas gahr stre , the foreign minister of norway , makes a compelling case for open discussion , even when values diverge , in an attempt to build greater security for all .
culture , politics
1321
jonas gahr stre : in defense of dialogue
amongst all the troubling deficits we struggle with today -- we think of financial and economic primarily -- the ones that concern me most is the deficit of political dialogue -- our ability to address modern conflicts as they are , to go to the source of what they 're all about and to understand the key players and to deal with them .
we who are diplomats , we are trained to deal with conflicts between states and issues between states .
and i can tell you , our agenda is full .
there is trade , there is disarmament , there is cross-border relations .
but the picture is changing , and we are seeing that there are new key players coming onto the scene .
we loosely call them " groups . "
they may represent social , religious , political , economic , military realities .
and we struggle with how to deal with them .
the rules of engagement : how to talk , when to talk , and how to deal with them .
let me show you a slide here which illustrates the character of conflicts since 1946 until today .
you see the green is a traditional interstate conflict , the ones we used to read about .
the red is modern conflict , conflicts within states .
these are quite different , and they are outside the grasp of modern diplomacy .
and the core of these key actors are groups who represent different interests inside countries .
and the way they deal with their conflicts rapidly spreads to other countries .
so in a way , it is everybody 's business .
another acknowledgment we 've seen during these years , recent years , is that very few of these domestic interstate , intrastate conflicts can be solved militarily .
they may have to be dealt with with military means , but they cannot be solved by military means .
they need political solutions .
and we , therefore , have a problem , because they escape traditional diplomacy .
and we have among states a reluctance in dealing with them .
plus , during the last decade , we 've been in the mode where dealing with groups was conceptually and politically dangerous .
after 9 / 11 , either you were with us or against us .
it was black or white .
and groups are very often immediately label terrorists .
and who would talk to terrorists ?
the west , as i would see it , comes out of that decade weakened , because we didn 't understand the group .
so we 've spent more time on focusing on why we should not talk to others than finding out how we talk to others .
now i 'm not naive .
you cannot talk to everybody all the time .
and there are times you should walk .
and sometimes military intervention is necessary .
i happen to believe that libya was necessary and that military intervention in afghanistan was also necessary .
and my country relies on its security through military alliance , that 's clear .
but still we have a large deficit in dealing with and understanding modern conflict .
let us turn to afghanistan .
10 years after that military intervention , that country is far from secure .
the situation , to be honest , is very serious .
now again , the military is necessary , but the military is no problem-solver .
when i first came to afghanistan in 2005 as a foreign minister , i met the commander of isaf , the international troops .
and he told me that , " this can be won militarily , minister .
we just have to persevere . " now four com isaf 's later , we hear a different message : " this cannot be won militarily .
we need military presence , but we need to move to politics .
we can only solve this through a political solution .
and it is not us who will solve it ; afghans have to solve it . " but then they need a different political process than the one they were given in 2001 , 2002 .
they need an inclusive process where the real fabric of this very complicated society can deal with their issues .
everybody seems to agree with that .
it was very controversial to say three , four , five years ago .
now everybody agrees .
but now , as we prepare to talk , we understand how little we know .
because we didn 't talk .
we didn 't grasp what was going on .
the international committee of the red cross , the icrc , is talking to everyone , and it is doing so because it is neutral .
and that 's one reason why that organization probably is the best informed key player to understand modern conflict -- because they talk .
my point is that you don 't have to be neutral to talk .
and you don 't have to agree when you sit down with the other side .
and you can always walk .
but if you don 't talk , you can 't engage the other side .
and the other side which you 're going to engage is the one with whom you profoundly disagree .
prime minister rabin said when he engaged the oslo process , " you don 't make peace with your friends , you make peace with your enemies . " it 's hard , but it is necessary .
let me go one step further .
this is tahrir square . there 's a revolution going on .
the arab spring is heading into fall and is moving into winter .
it will last for a long , long time .
and who knows what it will be called in the end .
that 's not the point .
the point is that we are probably seeing , for the first time in the history of the arab world , a revolution bottom-up -- people 's revolution . social groups are taking to the streets .
and we find out in the west that we know very little about what 's happening .
because we never talk to the people in these countries .
most governments followed the dictate of the authoritarian leaders to stay away from these different groups , because they were terrorists .
so now that they are emerging in the street and we salute the democratic revolution , we find out how little we know .
right now , the discussion goes , " should we talk to the muslim brotherhood ?
should we talk to hamas ?
if we talk to them , we may legitimize them . " i think that is wrong .
if you talk in the right way , you make it very clear that talking is not agreeing .
and how can we tell the muslim brotherhood , as we should , that they must respect minority rights , if we don 't accept majority rights ?
because they may turn out to be a majority .
how can we escape [ having ] a double-standard , if we at the same time preach democracy and at the same time don 't want to deal with the groups that are representative ?
how will we ever be interlocutors ?
now my diplomats are instructed to talk to all these groups .
but talking can be done in different ways .
we make a distinction between talking from a diplomatic level and talking at the political level .
now talking can be accompanied with aid or not with aid .
talking can be accompanied with inclusion or not inclusion .
there 's a big array of the ways of dealing with this .
so if we refuse to talk to these new groups that are going to be dominating the news in years to come , we will further radicalization , i believe .
we will make the road from violent activities into politics harder to travel .
and if we cannot demonstrate to these groups that if you move towards democracy , if you move towards taking part in civilized and normal standards among states , there are some rewards on the other side .
the paradox here is that the last decade probably was a lost decade for making progress on this .
and the paradox is that the decade before the last decade was so promising -- and for one reason primarily .
and the reason is what happened in south africa : nelson mandela .
when mandela came out of prison after 27 years of captivity , if he had told his people , " it 's time to take up the arms , it 's time to fight , " he would have been followed .
and i think the international community would have said , " fair enough .
it 's their right to fight . " now as you know , mandela didn 't do that .
in his memoirs , " long road to freedom , " he wrote that he survived during those years of captivity because he always decided to look upon his oppressor as also being a human being , also being a human being . so he engaged a political process of dialogue , not as a strategy of the weak , but as a strategy of the strong .
and he engaged talking profoundly by settling some of the most tricky issues through a truth and reconciliation process where people came and talked .
now south african friends will know that was very painful .
so what can we learn from all of this ?
dialogue is not easy -- not between individuals , not between groups , not between governments -- but it is very necessary .
if we 're going to deal with political conflict-solving of conflicts , if we 're going to understand these new groups which are coming from bottom-up , supported by technology , which is available to all , we diplomats cannot be sitting back in the banquets believing that we are doing interstate relations . we have to connect with these profound changes .
and what is dialogue really about ?
when i enter into dialogue , i really hope that the other side would pick up my points of view , that i would impress upon them my opinions and my values .
i cannot do that unless i send the signals that i will be open to listen to the other side 's signals .
we need a lot more training on how to do that and a lot more practice on how that can take problem-solving forward .
we know from our personal experiences that it 's easy sometimes just to walk , and sometimes you may need to fight .
and i wouldn 't say that is the wrong thing in all circumstances .
sometimes you have to .
but that strategy seldom takes you very far .
the alternative is a strategy of engagement and principled dialogue .
and i believe we need to strengthen this approach in modern diplomacy , not only between states , but also within states .
we are seeing some new signs .
we could never have done the convention against anti-personnel landmines and the convention that is banning cluster munitions unless we had done diplomacy differently , by engaging with civil society .
all of a sudden , ngos were not only standing in the streets , crying their slogans , but they were taking [ them ] into the negotiations , partly because they represented the victims of these weapons .
and they brought their knowledge .
and there was an interaction between diplomacy and the power coming bottom-up . this is perhaps a first element of a change .
in the future , i believe , we should draw examples from these different illustrations , not to have diplomacy which is disconnected from people and civil society .
and we have to go also beyond traditional diplomacy to the survival issue of our times , climate change .
how are we going to solve climate change through negotiations , unless we are able to make civil society and people , not part of the problem , but part of the solution ?
it is going to demand an inclusive process of diplomacy very different from the one we are practicing today as we are heading to new rounds of difficult climate negotiations , but when we move toward something which has to be much more along a broad mobilization .
it 's crucial to understand , i believe , because of technology and because of globalization , societies from bottom-up .
we as diplomats need to know the social capital of communities .
what is it that makes people trust each other , not only between states , but also within states ?
what is the legitimacy of diplomacy , of the the solution we devise as diplomats if they cannot be reflected and understood by also these broader forces of societies that we now very loosely call groups ?
the good thing is that we are not powerless .
we have never had as many means of communication , means of being connected , means of reaching out , means of including .
the diplomatic toolbox is actually full of different tools we can use to strengthen our communication .
but the problem is that we are coming out of a decade where we had a fear of touching it .
now , i hope , in the coming years , that we are able to demonstrate through some concrete examples that fear is receding and that we can take courage from that alliance with civil society in different countries to support their problem-solving , among the afghans , inside the palestinian population , between the peoples of palestine and israel .
and as we try to understand this broad movement across the arab world , we are not powerless .
we need to improve the necessary skills , and we need the courage to use them .
in my country , i have seen how the council of islamist groups and christian groups came together , not as a government initiative , but they came together on their own initiative to establish contact and dialogue in times where things were pretty low-key tension .
and when tension increased , they already had that dialogue , and that was a strength to deal with different issues .
our modern western societies are more complex than before , in this time of migration .
how are we going to settle and build a bigger " we " to deal with our issues if we don 't improve our skills of communication ?
so there are many reasons , and for all of these reasons , this is time and this is why we must talk .
thank you for your attention .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / nathan _ myhrvold _ on _ archeology _ animal _ photography _ bbq.html
nathan myhrvold talks about a few of his latest fascinations -- animal photography , archeology , bbq and generally being an eccentric genius multimillionaire . listen for wild stories from the edge of the animal world .
animals , entertainment , exploration , fish , humor , photography
271
nathan myhrvold on archeology , animal photography , bbq ...
so , i 'm in chile , in the atacama desert , sitting in a hotel lobby , because that 's the only place that i can get a wi-fi connection , and i have this picture up on my screen , and a woman comes up behind me .
she says , " oh , that 's beautiful .
what is it ? is that jackson pollock ? " and unfortunately , i can be a little too honest .
i said , " no , it 's -- it 's penguin shit . "
and , you know , " excuse me ! " and i could sense that she thought i was speaking synecdochically .
so , i said , " no , no , really -- it 's penguin shit . "
because i had just been in the falkland islands taking pictures of penguins .
this is a gentoo penguin . and she was still skeptical .
so , literally , a few minutes before that , i downloaded this scientific paper about calculations on avian defecation ,
which is really quite interesting , because it turns out you can model this as something called " poiseuille flow , " and you can learn an awful lot about the physics of the avian rectum .
actually , technically , it 's not a rectum . it 's called a cloaca .
at this point , she stops me , and she says , " who are you ?
wha -- what do you do ? "
and i was stuck , because i didn 't have any way to describe what i do .
and so , in some sense , this talk today is my answer to that .
it 's a selection of a random bunch of the stuff that i do .
and it 's very hard for me to make sense of it , so i 'm not sure that you can .
it 's the kind of thing that i sit up late at night thinking about sometimes -- often at four in the morning .
so , some people are afraid of what i do .
some people think i am the nerd tony soprano , and in response , i have ordered a bulletproof pocket protector .
i 'm not sure what these people think , because i don 't speak norsk .
but i 'm not thinking " monsteret " is a good thing .
i don 't know , you know ?
so , one of the things that i love to do is travel around the world and look at archaeological sites .
because archaeology gives us an opportunity to study past civilizations , and see where they succeeded and where they failed .
use science to , you know , work backwards and say , " well , really , what were they thinking ? " and recently , i was in easter island , which is an incredibly beautiful place , and an incredibly mysterious place , because no matter where you go in easter island , you 're struck by these statues , called the moai .
the place is 64 square miles .
they made , so far as we can tell , 900 of them .
why on earth ? and if you haven 't read jared diamond 's book , " collapse , " i totally recommend that you do .
he 's got a great chapter about it .
basically , these people committed ecological suicide in order to make more of these .
and somewhere along the line , somebody said , " i know ! let 's cut down the last tree and commit suicide , because we need more identical statues . "
and , one thing that isn 't a mystery , actually , was when i grew up -- because when i was a little kid , i 'd seen these pictures -- and i thought , " well , why that look on the face ?
why that brow ? " i mean , it 's such a powerful thing .
where did they get that inspiration ?
and then i met yoyo , who is the native rapa nui-an guide , and if you look at yoyo 's face , you kind of figure out where they got it .
there 's many mysteries , these statues .
everyone wants to know , how did they make them , how did they transport them ?
this woman in the foreground is jo anne van tilberg .
she 's the leading archaeologist working easter island today .
and she has studied the statues for 20-some years , and she has detailed records of every single statue .
the one on the page here is the same that 's up there .
one interesting problem is the stone isn 't very hard .
so , this used to be completely smooth . in fact , in many of the statues , when you excavate them , the backs are totally smooth -- almost glass smooth .
but after 1,000 years out in the weather , they look like this .
jo anne and i have just embarked on a project to digitize them all , and we 're going to do a very high-res digitization , first because it 's a way of preserving them .
second , we have these ideas about how you can algorithmically , then , learn a few of the mysteries about them .
how long have they been standing in what positions ?
and maybe , indirectly , get at some of the issues of what caused them to be the way they are .
while i was in easter island , comet mcnaught was there also , so you get a gratuitous picture of a moai with a comet .
i also have an archaeological project going on in egypt .
" going on " is perhaps a little bit strong .
we 're trying to get all of the permissions to get everything all set , to get it going .
so , i 'll talk about it at a future ted .
but there 's some amazing opportunities in egypt as well .
another thing i do is i invent stuff .
in fact , i design nuclear reactors .
not a joke .
this is the conventional nuclear fuel cycle .
the red line is what is done in most nuclear reactors . it 's called the open fuel cycle .
the white lines are what 's called an advance fuel cycle , where you reprocess .
now , this is the normal way it 's done .
it 's got the huge advantage that it does not create carbon pollution .
it has a lot of disadvantages : each one of these steps is extremely expensive , it 's potentially dangerous and they have the interesting property that the step cannot be performed in anyone 's backyard , which is a problem .
so , our reactor eliminates these steps , which , if we can actually make it work , is a really cool thing .
now , it 's kind of nuts to work on a new nuclear reactor .
there 's -- no reactor 's been even built to an old design , much less a new one , in the united states for 25 years .
it 's the kind of very high-risk , but potentially very high-return thing that we do .
changing into a totally different field , we do a lot of stuff in solid state physics , particularly in an area called metamaterials .
a metamaterial is an artificial material , which manipulates , in this case , electromagnetic radiation , in a way that you couldn 't otherwise .
so , this device here is an invisibility cloak .
it may not seem that , but if you were a microwave , this is how you would view it .
rays of light -- in this case , microwave light -- come in , and they just squish around the cell , and they come back the other side .
now , you could do that with mirrors from one angle .
the cool thing is , this does it from all angles .
metamaterials , unfortunately -- a , it only works on microwave , and b , it doesn 't work all that well yet .
but metamaterials are an incredibly exciting field .
it 's -- you know , today i 'd like to say it 's a zero billion dollar business , but , in fact , it 's negative .
but some day , some day , maybe it 's going to work .
we do a lot of work in biomedical fields .
in this case , we 're working with a major medical foundation to develop inexpensive ways of diagnosing diseases in developing countries .
so , they say the eyes are the windows of the soul -- turns out they 're a window to a whole lot more stuff .
and these happen to be my eyes , by the way .
now , i 'm also very interested in cooking .
while i was at microsoft , i took a leave of absence and went to a chef school in france .
i used to work , also while at microsoft , at a leading restaurant in seattle , so i do a lot of cooking .
i 've been on a team that won the world championship of barbecue .
but barbecue 's interesting , because it 's one of these cult foods like chili , or bouillabaisse .
various parts of the world will have a cult food that people get enormously attached to --
there 's tremendous traditions , there 's secrecy . and i 'm trying to use a very scientific approach .
so , this is my latest cooker , and if this looks more complicated than the nuclear reactor , that 's because it is .
but if you get to play with all those knobs and dials -- and of course , really the controller over there does it all on software -- you can make some terrific ribs .
this is a high-speed centrifuge .
you should all have one in your kitchen , beside your turbochef .
this subjects food to a force about 50,000 times that of normal gravity , and oh boy , does it clarify chicken stock .
you would not believe it !
i perform a series of ghoulish experiments on food -- in this case , trying to calibrate a mathematical model so that one can predict exactly what the internal cooking times are .
it turns out , a , it 's useful , and for a geek like me , it 's fun .
theory is red , black is experiment .
so , i 'm either really good at faking it , or this particular model seems to work .
so , another random thing i do is the search for extraterrestrial intelligence , or seti .
and you may be familiar with the movie " contact , " which sort of popularized that .
it turns out there are real people who go out and search for extraterrestrials in a very scientific way .
in fact , almost everybody in the movie is based on a real character , a real person .
so , the jodie foster character here is actually this woman , jill tarter , and jill has dedicated her life to this .
you know , a lot of people risk their lives in a brief act of heroism , which is kind of cool , but jill has what i call slow heroism .
she is risking her professional life on something that her own calculations show may not work for a thousand years -- may not ever .
so , i like to support people that are risking their lives .
after the movie came out , of course , there was a lot of interest in seti .
my kids saw the movie , and afterwards they came to me and they said , " so , dad , so -- so -- that character -- that 's jill , right ? " i said , " oh , yeah , yeah -- absolutely . "
" and that other person , that 's someone -- " i said , " yes . "
they said , " well , you know that creepy rich guy in the movie ?
is that you ? " i said , " well , you know , it 's just a movie ! come on . " so , the seti institute , with a little bit of help from me , and a lot of help from paul allen and a variety of other people , is building a dedicated radio telescope in hat creek , california , so they can do this seti work .
now , i travel a lot , and i change cell phones a lot , and the one person who always gets updated on all my cell phones and pagers and everything else is jill , because i really don 't want to miss " the call . "
i mean , can you imagine ? e.t. ' s phoning home , and i 'm not , like , there ? you know , horrible !
so , i do a lot of work on dinosaurs .
i 'm known to tedsters as the guy that has sex with dinosaurs .
and i resemble that remark .
i 'm going to talk about a different aspect of dinosaurs , which is the finding of them .
now , to find dinosaurs , you hike around in horrible conditions looking for a dinosaur .
it sounds really dumb , but that 's what it is .
it 's horrible conditions , because wherever you have nice weather , plants grow ,
and you don 't get any erosion , and you don 't see any dinosaurs .
so , you always find dinosaurs in deserts or badlands , areas that have very little plant growth and have flash floods in the spring .
you know , skiers pray for snow ?
paleontologists pray for erosion .
so , you hike around and -- this is after you dig them up , they look like this .
you hike around , you see something like this .
now , this is something i found , so look at it very closely here .
you 've got this bentonite clay , which is -- sort of swells up and expands .
and there 's some stuff poking out . so , you look at that , and you look up close , and you say , " well , gee , that 's kind of interesting . what are all of these pieces ? " well , if you look closely , you can recognize , actually , from the shape , that these are skull fragments .
and then when you look at this , you say , " that 's a tooth .
it 's a big tooth . " it 's about the size of a banana .
it has a big serration on the edge .
this is what tyrannosaurus rex looks like in the ground .
and this is what it 's like to find a tyrannosaurus rex , which i was lucky enough to do a few years ago .
now , this is what tyrannosaurus rex looks like in my living room .
not the same one , actually . this is a cast , which i had bought ,
and then , after buying the cast , i found my own , and i don 't have room for two .
you know .
so , the thing that 's wonderful for me about finding dinosaurs is that it is both an intellectual thing , because you 're trying to reconstruct the environment of millions of years ago .
it 's something that can inform all sorts of science in unexpected ways .
the study of dinosaurs led to the realization that there 's a problem with asteroid impact , for example .
the study of dinosaurs may , literally , one day save the planet .
study of the ancient climate is very important .
in fact , the mesozoic , when dinosaurs lived , had much higher co2 than today , was much warmer than today , and is one of the interesting proof points for the effects of co2 on climate .
but , besides being intellectually and scientifically interesting , it 's also very different than the other things i do , because you get to hike around in the badlands .
this is actually what most dinosaur research looks like .
this is one of my papers : " a pygostyle from a non-avian theropod . "
it 's not as gripping as dinosaur sex , so we 're not going to go into it further .
now , i 'm also really big on photography .
i travel all over the world taking pictures -- some of them good , most of them not .
these days , bits are cheap . unfortunately , that means you 've got to spend more time sorting through them .
here 's a picture i took in the falkland islands of king penguins on a beach .
here 's a picture i took in alaska , a few years ago , of orcas .
i 'd gone up to photograph orcas , and we had looked for a week , and we hadn 't seen a damn orca .
and the last day , the sun comes out , the orcas come , they 're right by the boat . it 's fantastic .
and i get lots of pictures like this .
then , a little bit later , i start getting some pictures like this .
now , to a human audience , i need to explain that if penthouse magazine had a marine mammal edition , this would be the centerfold .
it 's true .
so , there 's more and more activity near the boat , and all of a sudden somebody shouts , " what 's that in the water ? "
i said , " well , i think that 's what you call a free willy . "
there 's a variety of things you can learn from watching whales have sex .
the first thing you learn is the overwhelming importance of hands .
they don 't have them .
i think paul simon is in the audience , and he has -- he may not realize it , but he wrote a song all about whale sex , " slip-slidin ' away . "
that 's kind of what it 's like .
the other interesting thing that i learned about whale sex : they curl their toes too .
so -- where do you go putting all of these disparate pieces together ?
you know , there 's a tremendous amount of wisdom in finding a great thing , passion in life , and focusing all your energy on it , and i 've never been able to do that .
i just -- you know , because , yes , i 'll focus passion on something , but then there will be something else , and then there 's something else again .
and for a long time i fought this , and i thought , " well , gee , i really ought to buckle down . "
and you know , when i was at microsoft , that was so engrossing , and the whole industry was expanding so much , that it did tend to crowd out most of the other things in my life .
but ultimately , i decided that what i really ought to do is not fight being who i am , but embrace it .
and say , " yeah , you know , i -- this whole talk has been a mile wide and an inch deep , but that 's really what works for me . "
and regardless of whether it 's nuclear reactors or metamaterials or whale sex , the common -- or lowest common denominator -- is me .
that 's it , thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / ben _ katchor _ s _ comics _ of _ old _ new _ york.html
in this captivating talk from the ted archive , cartoonist ben katchor reads from his comic strips . these perceptive , surreal stories find the profound hopes and foibles of history preserved in objects like light switches and signs .
new york , art , book , cities , humor
524
ben katchor 's comics of bygone new york
i 'm going to read a few strips .
these are , most of these are from a monthly page i do in and architecture and design magazine called metropolis .
and the first story is called " the faulty switch . "
another beautifully designed new building ruined by the sound of a common wall light switch .
it 's fine during the day when the main rooms are flooded with sunlight .
but at dusk everything changes .
the architect spent hundreds of hours designing the burnished brass switchplates for his new office tower .
and then left it to a contractor to install these 79-cent switches behind them .
we know instinctively where to reach when we enter a dark room .
we automatically throw the little nub of plastic upward .
but the sound we are greeted with , as the room is bathed in the simulated glow of late-afternoon light , recalls to mind a dirty men 's room in the rear of a greek coffee shop .
this sound colors our first impression of any room ;
it can 't be helped .
but where does this sound , commonly described as a click , come from ?
is it simply the byproduct of a crude mechanical action ?
or is it an imitation of one half the set of sounds we make to express disappointment ?
the often dental consonant of no indo-european language .
or is it the amplified sound of a synapse firing in the brain of a cockroach ?
in the 1950s they tried their best to muffle this sound with mercury switches and silent knob controls .
but today these improvements seem somehow inauthentic .
the click is the modern triumphal clarion proceeding us through life , announcing our entry into every lightless room .
the sound made flicking a wall switch off is of a completely different nature .
it has a deep melancholy ring .
children don 't like it .
it 's why they leave lights on around the house .
adults find it comforting .
but wouldn 't it be an easy matter to wire a wall switch so that it triggers the muted horn of a steam ship ?
or the recorded crowing of a rooster ?
or the distant peel of thunder ?
thomas edison went through thousands of unlikely substances before he came upon the right one for the filament of his electric light bulb .
why have we settled so quickly for the sound of its switch ?
that 's the end of that .
the next story is called " in praise of the taxpayer . "
that so many of the city 's most venerable taxpayers have survived yet another commercial building boom , is cause for celebration .
these one or two story structures , designed to yield only enough income to cover the taxes on the land on which they stand , were not meant to be permanent buildings .
yet for one reason or another they have confounded the efforts of developers to be combined into lots suitable for high-rise construction .
although they make no claim to architectural beauty , they are , in their perfect temporariness , a delightful alternative to the large-scale structures that might someday take their place .
the most perfect examples occupy corner lots .
they offer a pleasant respite from the high-density development around them .
a break of light and air , an architectural biding of time .
so buried in signage are these structures ,
that it often takes a moment to distinguish the modern specially constructed taxpayer from its neighbor :
the small commercial building from an earlier century , whose upper floors have been sealed , and whose groundfloor space now functions as a taxpayer .
the few surfaces not covered by signs are often clad in a distinctive , dark green-gray , striated aluminum siding .
take-out sandwich shops , film processing drop-offs , peep-shows and necktie stores .
now these provisional structures have , in some cases , remained standing the temporary building is a triumph of modern industrial organization ,
a healthy sublimation of the urge to build ,
and proof that not every architectural idea need be set in stone .
that 's the end .
and the next story is called , " on the human lap . "
for the ancient egyptians the lap was a platform upon which to place the earthly possessions of the dead -- 30 cubits from foot to knee .
it was not until the 14th century that an italian painter recognized the lap as a grecian temple , upholstered in flesh and cloth .
over the next 200 years we see the infant christ go from a sitting to a standing position on the virgin 's lap ,
and then back again .
every child recapitulates this ascension , straddling one or both legs , sitting sideways , or leaning against the body .
from there , to the modern ventriloquist 's dummy , is but a brief moment in history .
you were late for school again this morning . the ventriloquist must first make us believe that a small boy is sitting on his lap .
the illusion of speech follows incidentally .
what have you got to say for yourself , jimmy ? as adults we admire the lap from a nostalgic distance .
we have fading memories of that provisional temple , erected each time an adult sat down .
on a crowded bus there was always a lap to sit on .
it is children and teenage girls who are most keenly aware of its architectural beauty .
they understand the structural integrity of a deep avuncular lap , as compared to the shaky arrangement of a neurotic niece in high heels .
the relationship between the lap and its owner is direct and intimate .
i envision a 36-story , 450-unit residential high-rise -- a reason to consider the mental health of any architect before granting an important commission .
the bathrooms and kitchens will , of course , have no windows .
the lap of luxury is an architectural construct of childhood , which we seek , in vain , as adults , to employ .
that 's the end .
the next story is called " the haverpiece collection " a nondescript warehouse , visible for a moment from the northbound lanes of the prykushko expressway , serves as the temporary resting place for the haverpiece collection of european dried fruit .
the profound convolutions on the surface of a dried cherry .
the foreboding sheen of an extra-large date .
do you remember wandering as a child through those dark wooden storefront galleries ?
where everything was displayed in poorly labeled roach-proof bins .
pears dried in the form of genital organs .
apricot halves like the ears of cherubim .
in 1962 the unsold stock was purchased by maurice haverpiece , a wealthy prune juice bottler , and consolidated to form the core collection .
as an art form it lies somewhere between still-life painting and plumbing .
upon his death in 1967 , a quarter of the items were sold off for compote to a high-class hotel restaurant .
unsuspecting guests were served stewed turn-of-the-century turkish figs for breakfast .
the rest of the collection remains here , stored in plain brown paper bags until funds can be raised to build a permanent museum and study center .
a shoe made of apricot leather for the daughter of a czar .
that 's the end . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / danny _ hillis _ two _ frontiers _ of _ cancer _ treatment.html
danny hills makes a case for the next frontier of cancer research : proteomics , the study of proteins in the body . as hillis explains it , genomics shows us a list of the ingredients of the body -- while proteomics shows us what those ingredients produce . understanding what 's going on in your body at the protein level may lead to a new understanding of how cancer happens .
talks
1082
danny hillis : understanding cancer through proteomics
i admit that i 'm a little bit nervous here because i 'm going to say some radical things , about how we should think about cancer differently , to an audience that contains a lot of people who know a lot more about cancer than i do .
but i will also contest that i 'm not as nervous as i should be because i 'm pretty sure i 'm right about this .
and that this , in fact , will be the way that we treat cancer in the future .
in order to talk about cancer , i 'm going to actually have to -- let me get the big slide here .
first , i 'm going to try to give you a different perspective of genomics .
i want to put it in perspective of the bigger picture of all the other things that are going on -- and then talk about something you haven 't heard so much about , which is proteomics . having explained those , that will set up for what i think will be a different idea about how to go about treating cancer .
so let me start with genomics .
it is the hot topic .
it is the place where we 're learning the most .
this is the great frontier .
but it has its limitations .
and in particular , you 've probably all heard the analogy that the genome is like the blueprint of your body ,
and if that were only true , it would be great , but it 's not .
it 's like the parts list of your body .
it doesn 't say how things are connected , what causes what and so on .
so if i can make an analogy , let 's say that you were trying to tell the difference between a good restaurant , a healthy restaurant and a sick restaurant , and all you had was the list of ingredients that they had in their larder .
so it might be that , if you went to a french restaurant and you looked through it and you found they only had margarine and they didn 't have butter , you could say , " ah , i see what 's wrong with them . i can make them healthy . "
and there probably are special cases of that .
you could certainly tell the difference between a chinese restaurant and a french restaurant by what they had in a larder .
so the list of ingredients does tell you something , and sometimes it tells you something that 's wrong .
if they have tons of salt , you might guess they 're using too much salt , or something like that .
but it 's limited , because really to know if it 's a healthy restaurant , you need to taste the food , you need to know what goes on in the kitchen , you need the product of all of those ingredients .
so if i look at a person and i look at a person 's genome , it 's the same thing .
the part of the genome that we can read is the list of ingredients .
and so indeed , there are times when we can find ingredients that [ are ] bad .
cystic fibrosis is an example of a disease where you just have a bad ingredient and you have a disease , and we can actually make a direct correspondence between the ingredient and the disease .
but most things , you really have to know what 's going on in the kitchen , because , mostly , sick people used to be healthy people -- they have the same genome .
so the genome really tells you much more about predisposition .
so what you can tell is you can tell the difference between an asian person and a european person by looking at their ingredients list .
but you really for the most part can 't tell the difference between a healthy person and a sick person -- except in some of these special cases .
so why all the big deal about genetics ?
well first of all , it 's because we can read it , which is fantastic .
it is very useful in certain circumstances .
it 's also the great theoretical triumph of biology . it 's the one theory that the biologists ever really got right .
it 's fundamental to darwin and mendel and so on .
and so it 's the one thing where they predicted a theoretical construct .
so mendel had this idea of a gene as an abstract thing ,
and darwin built a whole theory that depended on them existing ,
and then watson and crick actually looked and found one .
so this happens in physics all the time .
you predict a black hole , and you look out the telescope and there it is , just like you said .
but it rarely happens in biology .
so this great triumph -- it 's so good , there 's almost a religious experience in biology .
and darwinian evolution is really the core theory .
so the other reason it 's been very popular is because we can measure it , it 's digital .
and in fact , thanks to kary mullis , you can basically measure your genome in your kitchen with a few extra ingredients .
so for instance , by measuring the genome , we 've learned a lot about how we 're related to other kinds of animals by the closeness of our genome , or how we 're related to each other -- the family tree , or the tree of life .
there 's a huge amount of information about the genetics just by comparing the genetic similarity .
now of course , in medical application , that is very useful because it 's the same kind of information that the doctor gets from your family medical history -- except probably , your genome knows much more about your medical history than you do .
and so by reading the genome , we can find out much more about your family than you probably know .
and so we can discover things that probably you could have found by looking at enough of your relatives , but they may be surprising .
i did the 23andme thing and was very surprised to discover that i am fat and bald .
but sometimes you can learn much more useful things about that .
but mostly what you need to know , to find out if you 're sick , is not your predispositions , but it 's actually what 's going on in your body right now .
so to do that , what you really need to do , you need to look at the things that the genes are producing and what 's happening after the genetics ,
and that 's what proteomics is about .
just like genome mixes the study of all the genes , proteomics is the study of all the proteins .
and the proteins are all of the little things in your body that are signaling between the cells -- actually , the machines that are operating --
that 's where the action is .
basically , a human body is a conversation going on , both within the cells and between the cells , and they 're telling each other to grow and to die ,
and when you 're sick , something 's gone wrong with that conversation .
and so the trick is -- unfortunately , we don 't have an easy way to measure these like we can measure the genome .
so the problem is that measuring -- if you try to measure all the proteins , it 's a very elaborate process .
it requires hundreds of steps , and it takes a long , long time .
and it matters how much of the protein it is .
it could be very significant that a protein changed by 10 percent , so it 's not a nice digital thing like dna .
and basically our problem is somebody 's in the middle of this very long stage , they pause for just a moment , and they leave something in an enzyme for a second , and all of a sudden all the measurements from then on don 't work .
and so then people get very inconsistent results when they do it this way .
people have tried very hard to do this .
i tried this a couple of times and looked at this problem and gave up on it .
i kept getting this call from this oncologist named david agus .
and applied minds gets a lot of calls from people who want help with their problems , and i didn 't think this was a very likely one to call back , so i kept on giving him to the delay list .
and then one day , i get a call from john doerr , bill berkman and al gore on the same day saying return david agus 's phone call .
so i was like , " okay . this guy 's at least resourceful . "
so we started talking , and he said , " i really need a better way to measure proteins . "
i 'm like , " looked at that . been there .
not going to be easy . "
he 's like , " no , no . i really need it .
i mean , i see patients dying every day because we don 't know what 's going on inside of them .
we have to have a window into this . "
and he took me through specific examples of when he really needed it .
and i realized , wow , this would really make a big difference , if we could do it ,
and so i said , " well , let 's look at it . "
applied minds has enough play money that we can go and just work on something without getting anybody 's funding or permission or anything .
so we started playing around with this .
and as we did it , we realized this was the basic problem -- that taking the sip of coffee -- that there were humans doing this complicated process and that what really needed to be done was to automate this process like an assembly line and build robots that would measure proteomics .
and so we did that ,
and working with david , we made a little company called applied proteomics eventually , which makes this robotic assembly line , which , in a very consistent way , measures the protein .
and i 'll show you what that protein measurement looks like .
basically , what we do is we take a drop of blood out of a patient , and we sort out the proteins in the drop of blood according to how much they weigh , how slippery they are , and we arrange them in an image .
and so we can look at literally hundreds of thousands of features at once out of that drop of blood .
and we can take a different one tomorrow , and you will see your proteins tomorrow will be different -- they 'll be different after you eat or after you sleep .
they really tell us what 's going on there .
and so this picture , which looks like a big smudge to you , is actually the thing that got me really thrilled about this and made me feel like we were on the right track .
so if i zoom into that picture , i can just show you what it means .
we sort out the proteins -- from left to right is the weight of the fragments that we 're getting ,
and from top to bottom is how slippery they are .
so we 're zooming in here just to show you a little bit of it .
and so each of these lines represents some signal that we 're getting out of a piece of a protein .
and you can see how the lines occur in these little groups of bump , bump , bump , bump , bump .
and that 's because we 're measuring the weight so precisely that -- carbon comes in different isotopes , so if it has an extra neutron on it , we actually measure it as a different chemical .
so we 're actually measuring each isotope as a different one .
and so that gives you an idea of how exquisitely sensitive this is .
so seeing this picture is sort of like getting to be galileo and looking at the stars and looking through the telescope for the first time , and suddenly you say , " wow , it 's way more complicated than we thought it was . "
but we can see that stuff out there and actually see features of it .
so this is the signature out of which we 're trying to get patterns .
so what we do with this is , for example , we can look at two patients , one that responded to a drug and one that didn 't respond to a drug ,
and ask , " what 's going on differently inside of them ? "
and so we can make these measurements precisely enough that we can overlay two patients and look at the differences .
so here we have alice in green and bob in red .
we overlay them . this is actual data .
and you can see , mostly it overlaps and it 's yellow , but there 's some things that just alice has and some things that just bob has .
and if we find a pattern of things of the responders to the drug , we see that in the blood , they have the condition that allows them to respond to this drug .
we might not even know what this protein is , but we can see it 's a marker for the response to the disease .
so this already , i think , is tremendously useful in all kinds of medicine .
but i think this is actually just the beginning of how we 're going to treat cancer .
so let me move to cancer .
the thing about cancer -- when i got into this , i really knew nothing about it , but working with david agus , i started watching how cancer was actually being treated and went to operations where it was being cut out .
and as i looked at it , to me it didn 't make sense how we were approaching cancer ,
and in order to make sense of it , i had to learn where did this come from .
we 're treating cancer almost like it 's an infectious disease .
we 're treating it as something that got inside of you that we have to kill .
so this is the great paradigm .
this is another case where a theoretical paradigm in biology really worked -- was the germ theory of disease .
so what doctors are mostly trained to do is diagnose -- that is , put you into a category and apply a scientifically proven treatment for that diagnosis --
and that works great for infectious diseases .
so if we put you in the category of you 've got syphilis , we can give you penicillin .
we know that that works .
if you 've got malaria , we give you quinine or some derivative of it .
and so that 's the basic thing doctors are trained to do ,
and it 's miraculous in the case of infectious disease -- how well it works .
and many people in this audience probably wouldn 't be alive if doctors didn 't do this .
but now let 's apply that to systems diseases like cancer .
the problem is that , in cancer , there isn 't something else that 's inside of you .
it 's you ; you 're broken .
that conversation inside of you got mixed up in some way .
so how do we diagnose that conversation ?
well , right now what we do is we divide it by part of the body -- you know , where did it appear ? -- and we put you in different categories according to the part of the body .
and then we do a clinical trial for a drug for lung cancer and one for prostate cancer and one for breast cancer , and we treat these as if they 're separate diseases and that this way of dividing them had something to do with what actually went wrong .
and of course , it really doesn 't have that much to do with what went wrong
because cancer is a failure of the system .
and in fact , i think we 're even wrong when we talk about cancer as a thing .
i think this is the big mistake .
i think cancer should not be a noun .
we should talk about cancering as something we do , not something we have .
and so those tumors , those are symptoms of cancer .
and so your body is probably cancering all the time ,
but there are lots of systems in your body that keep it under control .
and so to give you an idea of an analogy of what i mean by thinking of cancering as a verb ,
imagine we didn 't know anything about plumbing , and the way that we talked about it , we 'd come home and we 'd find a leak in our kitchen and we 'd say , " oh , my house has water . "
we might divide it -- the plumber would say , " well , where 's the water ? "
" well , it 's in the kitchen . " " oh , you must have kitchen water . "
that 's kind of the level at which it is .
" kitchen water ,
well , first of all , we 'll go in there and we 'll mop out a lot of it .
and then we know that if we sprinkle drano around the kitchen , that helps .
whereas living room water , it 's better to do tar on the roof . "
and it sounds silly ,
but that 's basically what we do .
and i 'm not saying you shouldn 't mop up your water if you have cancer ,
but i 'm saying that 's not really the problem ; that 's the symptom of the problem .
what we really need to get at is the process that 's going on , and that 's happening at the level of the proteonomic actions , happening at the level of why is your body not healing itself in the way that it normally does ?
because normally , your body is dealing with this problem all the time .
so your house is dealing with leaks all the time ,
but it 's fixing them . it 's draining them out and so on .
so what we need is to have a causative model of what 's actually going on ,
and proteomics actually gives us the ability to build a model like that .
david got me invited to give a talk at national cancer institute and anna barker was there .
and so i gave this talk and said , " why don 't you guys do this ? "
and anna said , " because nobody within cancer would look at it this way .
but what we 're going to do , is we 're going to create a program for people outside the field of cancer to get together with doctors who really know about cancer and work out different programs of research . "
so david and i applied to this program and created a consortium at usc where we 've got some of the best oncologists in the world and some of the best biologists in the world , from cold spring harbor , stanford , austin -- i won 't even go through and name all the places -- to have a research project that will last for five years where we 're really going to try to build a model of cancer like this .
we 're doing it in mice first ,
and we will kill a lot of mice in the process of doing this , but they will die for a good cause .
and we will actually try to get to the point where we have a predictive model where we can understand , when cancer happens , what 's actually happening in there and which treatment will treat that cancer .
so let me just end with giving you a little picture of what i think cancer treatment will be like in the future .
so i think eventually , once we have one of these models for people , which we 'll get eventually -- i mean , our group won 't get all the way there -- but eventually we 'll have a very good computer model -- sort of like a global climate model for weather .
it has lots of different information about what 's the process going on in this proteomic conversation on many different scales .
and so we will simulate in that model for your particular cancer -- and this also will be for als , or any kind of system neurodegenerative diseases , things like that -- we will simulate specifically you , not just a generic person , but what 's actually going on inside you .
and in that simulation , what we could do is design for you specifically a sequence of treatments , and it might be very gentle treatments , very small amounts of drugs . it might be things like , don 't eat that day , or give them a little chemotherapy , maybe a little radiation .
of course , we 'll do surgery sometimes and so on .
but design a program of treatments specifically for you and help your body guide back to health -- guide your body back to health .
because your body will do most of the work of fixing it if we just sort of prop it up in the ways that are wrong .
we put it in the equivalent of splints .
and so your body basically has lots and lots of mechanisms for fixing cancer ,
and we just have to prop those up in the right way and get them to do the job .
and so i believe that this will be the way that cancer will be treated in the future .
it 's going to require a lot of work , a lot of research .
there will be many teams like our team that work on this .
but i think eventually , we will design for everybody a custom treatment for cancer .
so thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / david _ logan _ on _ tribal _ leadership.html
at tedxusc , david logan talks about the five kinds of tribes that humans naturally form -- in schools , workplaces , even the driver 's license bureau . by understanding our shared tribal tendencies , we can help lead each other to become better individuals .
business , communication , culture , leadership , society
651
david logan on tribal leadership
what we 're really here to talk about is the " how . "
okay , so how exactly do we create this world-shattering , if you will , innovation ?
now , i want to tell you a quick story .
we 'll go back a little more than a year .
in fact , the date -- i 'm curious to know if any of you know what happened on this momentous date ?
it was february 3rd , 2008 .
anyone remember what happened , february 3rd , 2008 ?
super bowl . i heard it over here . it was the date of the super bowl .
and the reason that this date was so momentous is that what my colleagues , john king and halee fischer-wright , and i noticed as we began to debrief various super bowl parties , is that it seemed to us that across the united states , if you will , tribal councils had convened .
and they had discussed things of great national importance . like , " do we like the budweiser commercial ? "
and , " do we like the nachos ? " and , " who is going to win ? "
but they also talked about which candidate they were going to support .
and if you go back in time to february 3rd , it looked like hilary clinton was going to get the democratic nomination .
and there were even some polls that were saying she was going to go all the way .
but when we talked to people , it appeared that a funnel effect had happened in these tribes all across the united states .
now what is a tribe ? a tribe is a group of about 20 -- so kind of more than a team -- 20 to about 150 people .
and it 's within these tribes that all of our work gets done .
but not just work . it 's within these tribes that societies get built , that important things happen .
and so as we surveyed the , if you will , representatives from various tribal councils that met , also known as super bowl parties , we sent the following email off to 40 newspaper editors the following day .
february 4th , we posted it on our website . this was before super tuesday .
we said , " the tribes that we 're in are saying it 's going to be obama . "
now , the reason we knew that was because we spent the previous 10 years studying tribes , studying these naturally occurring groups .
all of you are members of tribes .
in walking around at the break , many of you had met members of your tribe . and you were talking to them .
and many of you were doing what great , if you will , tribal leaders do , which is to find someone who is a member of a tribe , and to find someone else who is another member of a different tribe , and make introductions .
that is in fact what great tribal leaders do .
so here is the bottom line .
if you focus in on a group like this -- this happens to be a usc game -- and you zoom in with one of those super satellite cameras and do magnification factors so you could see individual people , you would in fact see not a single crowd , just like there is not a single crowd here , but you would see these tribes that are then coming together . and from a distance it appears that it 's a single group .
and so people form tribes .
they always have . they always will .
just as fish swim and birds fly , people form tribes . it 's just what we do .
but here 's the rub .
not all tribes are the same ,
and what makes the difference is the culture .
now here is the net out of this .
you 're all a member of tribes .
if you can find a way to take the tribes that you 're in and nudge them forward , along these tribal stages to what we call stage five , which is the top of the mountain .
but we 're going to start with what we call stage one .
now , this is the lowest of the stages .
you don 't want this . okay ?
this is a bit of a difficult image to put up on the screen .
but it 's one that i think we need to learn from .
stage one produces people who do horrible things .
this is the kid who shot up virginia tech .
stage one is a group where people systematically sever relationships from functional tribes , and then pool together with people who think like they do .
stage one is literally the culture of gangs and it is the culture of prisons .
now , again , we don 't often deal with stage one .
and i want to make the point that as members of society , we need to .
it 's not enough to simply write people off .
but let 's move on to stage two .
now , stage one , you 'll notice , says , in effect , " life sucks . "
so , this other book that steve mentioned , that just came out , called " the three laws of performance , " my colleague , steve zaffron and i , argue that as people see the world , so they behave .
well , if people see the world in such a way that life sucks , then their behavior will follow automatically from that .
it will be despairing hostility .
they 'll do whatever it takes to survive , even if that means undermining other people .
now , my birthday is coming up shortly , and my driver 's license expires .
and the reason that that 's relevant is that very soon i will be walking into what we call a stage two tribe ,
which looks like this .
now , am i saying that in every department of motor vehicles across the land , you find a stage two culture ?
no . but in the one near me , where i have to go in just a few days , what i will say when i 'm standing in line is , " how can people be so dumb , and yet live ? "
now , am i saying that there are dumb people working here ?
actually , no , i 'm not .
but i 'm saying the culture makes people dumb .
so in a stage two culture -- and we find these in all sorts of different places -- you find them , in fact , in the best organizations in the world .
you find them in all places in society .
i 've come across them at the organizations that everybody raves about as being best in class .
but here is the point . if you believe and you say to people in your tribe , in effect , " my life sucks .
i mean , if i got to go to tedx usc my life wouldn 't suck . but i don 't . so it does . "
if that 's how you talked , imagine what kind of work would get done .
what kind of innovation would get done ?
the amount of world-changing behavior that would happen ?
in fact it would be basically nil .
now when we go on to stage three : this is the one that hits closest to home for many of us .
because it is in stage three that many of us move .
and we park . and we stay .
stage three says , " i 'm great . and you 're not . "
i 'm great and you 're not .
now imagine having a whole room of people saying , in effect , " i 'm great and you 're not . "
or , " i 'm going to find some way to compete with you and come out on top as a result of that . "
a whole group of people communicating that way , talking that way .
i know this sounds like a joke . three doctors walk into a bar .
but , in this case , three doctors walk into an elevator .
i happened to be in the elevator collecting data for this book .
and one doctor said to the others , " did you see my article in the new england journal of medicine ? "
and the other said , " no . that 's great . congratulations ! "
the next one got kind of a wry smile on his face and said , " well while you were , you know , doing your research , " -- notice the condescending tone -- " while you were off doing your research , i was off doing more surgeries than anyone else in the department of surgery at this institution . " and the third one got the same wry smile and said , " well , while you were off doing your research , and you were off doing your monkey meatball surgery , that eventually we 'll train monkeys to do , or cells or robots , or maybe not even need to do it at all , i was off running the future of the residency program , which is really the future of medicine . "
and they all kind of laughed and they patted him on the back .
and the elevator door opened , and they all walked out .
that is a meeting of a stage three tribe .
now , we find these in places where really smart , successful people show up .
like , oh , i don 't know , tedx usc .
here is the greatest challenge we face in innovation .
it is moving from stage three to stage four .
let 's take a look at a quick video snippet .
this is from a company called zappos , located outside las vegas .
and my question on the other side is just going to be , " what do you think they value ? "
it was not christmas time . there was a christmas tree .
this is their lobby .
employees volunteer time in the advice booth .
notice it looks like something out of a peanuts cartoon .
okay , we 're going through the hallway here at zappos .
this is a call center . notice how it 's decorated .
notice people are applauding for us .
they don 't know who we are and they don 't care . and if they did they probably wouldn 't applaud .
but you 'll notice the level of excitement .
notice , again , how they decorate their office .
now , what 's important to people at zappos , these may not be the things that are important to you .
but they value things like fun . and they value creativity .
one of their stated values is , " be a little bit weird . "
and you 'll notice they are a little bit weird .
so when individuals come together and find something that unites them that 's greater than their individual competence , then something very important happens . the group gels . and it changes from a group of highly motivated but fairly individually-centric people into something larger , into a tribe that becomes aware of its own existence .
stage four tribes can do remarkable things .
but you 'll notice we 're not at the top of the mountain yet .
there is , in fact , another stage .
now , some of you may not recognize the scene that 's up here .
and if you take a look at the headline of stage five , which is " life is great , " this may seem a little incongruous .
this is a scene or snippet from the truth and reconciliation process in south africa for which desmond tutu won the nobel prize .
now think about that . south africa , terrible atrocities had happened in the society .
and people came together focused only on those two values : truth and reconciliation .
there was no road map . no one had ever done anything like this before .
and in this atmosphere , where the only guidance was people 's values and their noble cause , what this group accomplished was historic .
and people , at the time , feared that south africa would end up going the way that rwanda has gone ,
descending into one skirmish after another in a civil war that seems to have no end .
in fact , south africa has not gone down that road . largely because people like desmond tutu set up a stage five process to involve the thousands and perhaps millions of tribes in the country , to bring everyone together .
so , people hear this and they conclude the following , as did we in doing the study . okay , got it . i don 't want to talk stage one .
that 's like , you know , " life sucks . " who wants to talk that way ?
i don 't want to talk like they do at the particular dmv that 's close to where dave lives .
i really don 't want to just say " i 'm great , "
because that kind of sounds narcissistic , and then i won 't have any friends .
saying , " we 're great " -- that sounds pretty good .
but i should really talk stage five , right ? " life is great . "
well , in fact , there are three somewhat counter-intuitive findings that come out of all this .
the first one , if you look at the declaration of independence and actually read it , the phrase that sticks in many of our minds is things about inalienable rights .
i mean , that 's stage five , right ? life is great , oriented only by our values , no other guidance .
in fact , most of the document is written at stage two .
" my life sucks because i live under a tyrant , also known as king george .
we 're great ! who is not great ? england ! "
sorry .
well , what about other great leaders ? what about gandhi ?
what about martin luther king ?
i mean , surely these were just people who preached , " life is great , " right ?
just one little bit of happiness and joy after another .
in fact , martin luther king 's most famous line was at stage three .
he didn 't say " we have a dream . " he said , " i have a dream . "
why did he do that ? because most people are not at stage five .
two percent are at stage one .
about 25 percent are at stage two , saying , in effect , " my life sucks . "
48 percent of working tribes say , these are employed tribes , say , " i 'm great and you 're not . "
and we have to duke it out every day , so we resort to politics .
only about 22 percent of tribes are at stage four , oriented by our values , saying " we 're great .
and our values are beginning to unite us . "
only two percent , only two percent of tribes get to stage five .
and those are the ones that change the world .
so the first little finding from this is that leaders need to be able to talk all the levels so that you can touch every person in society .
but you don 't leave them where you found them . okay ?
tribes can only hear one level above and below where they are .
so we have to have the ability to talk all the levels , to go to where they are .
and then leaders nudge people within their tribes to the next level .
i 'd like to show you some examples of this .
one of the people we interviewed was frank jordan , former mayor of san francisco . before that he was chief of police in san francisco .
and he grew up essentially in stage one .
and you know what changed his life ? it was walking into one of these , a boys and girls club .
now here is what happened to this person who eventually became mayor of san francisco .
he went from being alive and passionate at stage one -- remember , " life sucks , despairing hostility , i will do whatever it takes to survive " -- to walking into a boys and girls club , folding his arms , sitting down in a chair , and saying , " wow . my life really sucks .
i don 't know anybody .
i mean , if i was into boxing , like they were , then my life wouldn 't suck . but i don 't . so it does .
so i 'm going to sit here in my chair and not do anything . "
in fact , that 's progress .
we move people from stage one to stage two by getting them in a new tribe and then , over time , getting them connected .
so , what about moving from stage three to stage four ?
i want to argue that we 're doing that right here .
ted represents a set of values ,
and as we unite around these values , something really interesting begins to emerge .
if you want this experience to live on as something historic , then at the reception tonight i 'd like to encourage you to do something beyond what people normally do and call networking .
which is not just to meet new people and extend your reach , extend your influence , but instead , find someone you don 't know , and find someone else you don 't know , and introduce them .
that 's called a triadic relationship .
see , people who build world-changing tribes do that .
they extend the reach of their tribes by connecting them , not just to myself , so that my following is greater , but i connect people who don 't know each other to something greater than themselves .
and ultimately that adds to their values .
but we 're not done yet . because then how do we go from stage four , which is great , to stage five ?
the story that i like to end with is this . it comes out of a place called the gallup organization .
you know they do polls , right ?
so it 's stage four . we 're great . who is not great ?
pretty much everybody else who does polls .
if gallup releases a poll on the same day that nbc releases a poll , people will pay attention to the gallup poll . okay , we understand that .
so , they were bored .
they wanted to change the world . so here is the question someone asked . " how could we , instead of just polling what asia thinks or what the united states thinks , or who thinks what about obama versus mccain or something like that , what does the entire world think ? "
and they found a way to do the first-ever world poll .
they had people involved who were nobel laureates in economics , who reported being bored .
and suddenly they pulled out sheets of paper and were trying to figure out , " how do we survey the population of sub-saharan africa ?
how do we survey populations that don 't have access to technology , and speak languages we don 't speak , and we don 't know anyone who speaks those languages . because in order to achieve on this great mission , we have to be able to do it .
incidentally , they did pull it off .
and they released the first-ever world poll .
so i 'd like to leave you with these thoughts .
first of all : we all form tribes , all of us .
you 're in tribes here . hopefully you 're extending the reach of the tribes that you have .
but the question on the table is this : what kind of an impact are the tribes that you are in making ?
you 're hearing one presentation after another , often representing a group of people , a tribe , about how they have changed the world .
if you do what we 've talked about , you listen for how people actually communicate in the tribes that you 're in .
and you don 't leave them where they are . you nudge them forward .
you remember to talk all five culture stages .
because we 've got people in all five , around us .
and the question that i 'd like to leave you with is this : will your tribes change the world ?
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / krista _ tippett _ reconnecting _ with _ compassion.html
the term " compassion " -- typically reserved for the saintly or the sappy -- has fallen out of touch with reality . at a special tedprize @ un , journalist krista tippett deconstructs the meaning of compassion through several moving stories , and proposes a new , more attainable definition for the word .
charter for compassion , compassion , faith , religion , science
1074
krista tippett : reconnecting with compassion
we 're here to celebrate compassion .
but compassion , from my vantage point , has a problem .
as essential as it is across our traditions , as real as so many of us know it to be in particular lives , the word " compassion " is hollowed out in our culture , and it is suspect in my field of journalism .
it 's seen as a squishy kumbaya thing ,
or it 's seen as potentially depressing .
karen armstrong has told what i think is an iconic story of giving a speech in holland and , after the fact , the word " compassion " was translated as " pity . "
now compassion , when it enters the news , too often comes in the form of feel-good feature pieces or sidebars about heroic people you could never be like or happy endings or examples of self-sacrifice that would seem to be too good to be true most of the time .
our cultural imagination about compassion has been deadened by idealistic images .
and so what i 'd like to do this morning for the next few minutes is perform a linguistic resurrection .
and i hope you 'll come with me on my basic premise that words matter , that they shape the way we understand ourselves , the way we interpret the world and the way we treat others .
when this country first encountered genuine diversity in the 1960s , we adopted tolerance as the core civic virtue with which we would approach that .
now the word " tolerance , " if you look at it in the dictionary , connotes " allowing , " " indulging " and " enduring . "
in the medical context that it comes from , it is about testing the limits of thriving in an unfavorable environment .
tolerance is not really a lived virtue ; it 's more of a cerebral ascent .
and it 's too cerebral to animate guts and hearts and behavior when the going gets rough .
and the going is pretty rough right now .
i think that without perhaps being able to name it , we are collectively experiencing that we 've come as far as we can with tolerance as our only guiding virtue .
compassion is a worthy successor .
it is organic , across our religious , spiritual and ethical traditions , and yet it transcends them .
compassion is a piece of vocabulary that could change us if we truly let it sink into the standards to which we hold ourselves and others , both in our private and in our civic spaces .
so what is it , three-dimensionally ?
what are its kindred and component parts ?
what 's in its universe of attendant virtues ?
to start simply , i want to say that compassion is kind .
now " kindness " might sound like a very mild word , and it 's prone to its own abundant cliche .
but kindness is an everyday byproduct of all the great virtues .
and it is a most edifying form of instant gratification .
compassion is also curious .
compassion cultivates and practices curiosity .
i love a phrase that was offered me by two young women who are interfaith innovators in los angeles , aziza hasan and malka fenyvesi .
they are working to create a new imagination about shared life among young jews and muslims ,
and as they do that , they cultivate what they call " curiosity without assumptions . "
well that 's going to be a breeding ground for compassion .
compassion can be synonymous with empathy .
it can be joined with the harder work of forgiveness and reconciliation , but it can also express itself in the simple act of presence .
it 's linked to practical virtues like generosity and hospitality and just being there , just showing up .
i think that compassion also is often linked to beauty -- and by that i mean a willingness to see beauty in the other , not just what it is about them that might need helping .
i love it that my muslim conversation partners often speak of beauty as a core moral value .
and in that light , for the religious , compassion also brings us into the territory of mystery -- encouraging us not just to see beauty , but perhaps also to look for the face of god in the moment of suffering , in the face of a stranger , in the face of the vibrant religious other .
i 'm not sure if i can show you what tolerance looks like , but i can show you what compassion looks like -- because it is visible .
when we see it , we recognize it and it changes the way we think about what is doable , what is possible .
it is so important when we 're communicating big ideas -- but especially a big spiritual idea like compassion -- to root it as we present it to others in space and time and flesh and blood -- the color and complexity of life .
and compassion does seek physicality .
i first started to learn this most vividly from matthew sanford .
and i don 't imagine that you will realize this when you look at this photograph of him , but he 's paraplegic .
he 's been paralyzed from the waist down since he was 13 , in a car crash that killed his father and his sister .
matthew 's legs don 't work , and he 'll never walk again , and -- and he does experience this as an " and " rather than a " but " -- and he experiences himself to be healed and whole .
and as a teacher of yoga , he brings that experience to others across the spectrum of ability and disability , health , illness and aging .
he says that he 's just at an extreme end of the spectrum we 're all on .
he 's doing some amazing work now with veterans coming back from iraq and afghanistan .
and matthew has made this remarkable observation that i 'm just going to offer you and let it sit .
i can 't quite explain it , and he can 't either .
but he says that he has yet to experience someone who became more aware of their body , in all its frailty and its grace , without , at the same time , becoming more compassionate towards all of life .
compassion also looks like this .
this is jean vanier .
jean vanier helped found the l 'arche communities , which you can now find all over the world , communities centered around life with people with mental disabilities -- mostly down syndrome .
the communities that jean vanier founded , like jean vanier himself , exude tenderness .
" tender " is another word i would love to spend some time resurrecting .
we spend so much time in this culture being driven and aggressive , and i spend a lot of time being those things too .
and compassion can also have those qualities .
but again and again , lived compassion brings us back to the wisdom of tenderness .
jean vanier says that his work , like the work of other people -- his great , beloved , late friend mother teresa -- is never in the first instance about changing the world ; it 's in the first instance about changing ourselves .
he 's says that what they do with l 'arche is not a solution , but a sign .
compassion is rarely a solution , but it is always a sign of a deeper reality , of deeper human possibilities .
and compassion is unleashed in wider and wider circles by signs and stories , never by statistics and strategies .
we need those things too , but we 're also bumping up against their limits .
and at the same time that we are doing that , i think we are rediscovering the power of story -- that as human beings , we need stories to survive , to flourish , to change .
our traditions have always known this , and that is why they have always cultivated stories at their heart and carried them forward in time for us .
there is , of course , a story behind the key moral longing and commandment of judaism to repair the world -- tikkun olam .
and i 'll never forget hearing that story from dr. rachel naomi remen , who told it to me as her grandfather told it to her , that in the beginning of the creation something happened and the original light of the universe was shattered into countless pieces .
it lodged as shards inside every aspect of the creation .
and that the highest human calling is to look for this light , to point at it when we see it , to gather it up , and in so doing , to repair the world .
now this might sound like a fanciful tale .
some of my fellow journalists might interpret it that way .
rachel naomi remen says this is an important and empowering story for our time , because this story insists that each and every one of us , frail and flawed as we may be , inadequate as we may feel , has exactly what 's needed to help repair the part of the world that we can see and touch .
stories like this , signs like this , are practical tools in a world longing to bring compassion to abundant images of suffering that can otherwise overwhelm us .
rachel naomi remen is actually bringing compassion back to its rightful place alongside science in her field of medicine in the training of new doctors .
and this trend of what rachel naomi remen is doing , how these kinds of virtues are finding a place in the vocabulary of medicine -- the work fred luskin is doing -- i think this is one of the most fascinating developments of the 21st century -- that science , in fact , is taking a virtue like compassion definitively out of the realm of idealism .
this is going to change science , i believe , and it will change religion .
but here 's a face from 20th century science that might surprise you in a discussion about compassion .
we all know about the albert einstein who came up with e = mc2 .
we don 't hear so much about the einstein who invited the african american opera singer , marian anderson , to stay in his home when she came to sing in princeton because the best hotel there was segregated and wouldn 't have her .
we don 't hear about the einstein who used his celebrity to advocate for political prisoners in europe or the scottsboro boys in the american south .
einstein believed deeply that science should transcend national and ethnic divisions .
but he watched physicists and chemists become the purveyors of weapons of mass destruction in the early 20th century .
he once said that science in his generation had become like a razor blade in the hands of a three-year-old .
and einstein foresaw that as we grow more modern and technologically advanced , we need the virtues our traditions carry forward in time more , not less .
he liked to talk about the spiritual geniuses of the ages .
some of his favorites were moses , jesus , buddha , st. francis of assisi , gandhi -- he adored his contemporary , gandhi .
and einstein said -- and i think this is a quote , again , that has not been passed down in his legacy -- that " these kinds of people are geniuses in the art of living , more necessary to the dignity , security and joy of humanity than the discoverers of objective knowledge . "
now invoking einstein might not seem the best way to bring compassion down to earth and make it seem accessible to all the rest of us , but actually it is .
i want to show you the rest of this photograph , because this photograph is analogous to what we do to the word " compassion " in our culture -- we clean it up and we diminish its depths and its grounding in life , which is messy .
so in this photograph you see a mind looking out a window at what might be a cathedral -- it 's not .
this is the full photograph , and you see a middle-aged man wearing a leather jacket , smoking a cigar .
and by the look of that paunch , he hasn 't been doing enough yoga .
we put these two photographs side-by-side on our website , and someone said , " when i look at the first photo , i ask myself , what was he thinking ?
and when i look at the second , i ask , what kind of person was he ? what kind of man is this ? "
well , he was complicated .
he was incredibly compassionate in some of his relationships and terribly inadequate in others .
and it is much harder , often , to be compassionate towards those closest to us , which is another quality in the universe of compassion , on its dark side , that also deserves our serious attention and illumination .
gandhi , too , was a real flawed human being .
so was martin luther king , jr . so was dorothy day .
so was mother teresa .
so are we all .
and i want to say that it is a liberating thing to realize that that is no obstacle to compassion -- following on what fred luskin says -- that these flaws just make us human .
our culture is obsessed with perfection and with hiding problems .
but what a liberating thing to realize that our problems , in fact , are probably our richest sources for rising to this ultimate virtue of compassion , towards bringing compassion towards the suffering and joys of others .
rachel naomi remen is a better doctor because of her life-long struggle with crohn 's disease .
einstein became a humanitarian , not because of his exquisite knowledge of space and time and matter , but because he was a jew as germany grew fascist .
and karen armstrong , i think you would also say that it was some of your very wounding experiences in a religious life that , with a zigzag , have led to the charter for compassion .
compassion can 't be reduced to sainthood any more than it can be reduced to pity .
so i want to propose a final definition of compassion -- this is einstein with paul robeson by the way -- and that would be for us to call compassion a spiritual technology .
now our traditions contain vast wisdom about this , and we need them to mine it for us now .
but compassion is also equally at home in the secular as in the religious .
so i will paraphrase einstein in closing and say that humanity , the future of humanity , needs this technology as much as it needs all the others that have now connected us and set before us the terrifying and wondrous possibility of actually becoming one human race .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / susan _ cain _ the _ power _ of _ introverts.html
in a culture where being social and outgoing are prized above all else , it can be difficult , even shameful , to be an introvert . but , as susan cain argues in this passionate talk , introverts bring extraordinary talents and abilities to the world , and should be encouraged and celebrated .
business , culture , psychology
1377
susan cain : the power of introverts
when i was nine years old i went off to summer camp for the first time .
and my mother packed me a suitcase full of books , which to me seemed like a perfectly natural thing to do .
because in my family , reading was the primary group activity .
and this might sound antisocial to you , but for us it was really just a different way of being social .
you have the animal warmth of your family sitting right next to you , but you are also free to go roaming around the adventureland inside your own mind .
and i had this idea that camp was going to be just like this , but better .
i had a vision of 10 girls sitting in a cabin cozily reading books in their matching nightgowns .
camp was more like a keg party without any alcohol .
and on the very first day our counselor gathered us all together and she taught us a cheer that she said we would be doing every day for the rest of the summer to instill camp spirit .
and it went like this : " r-o-w-d-i-e , that 's the way we spell rowdie . rowdie , rowdie , let 's get rowdie . " yeah .
so i couldn 't figure out for the life of me why we were supposed to be so rowdy , or why we had to spell this word incorrectly .
but i recited a cheer . i recited a cheer along with everybody else .
i did my best .
and i just waited for the time that i could go off and read my books .
but the first time that i took my book out of my suitcase , the coolest girl in the bunk came up to me and she asked me , " why are you being so mellow ? " --
mellow , of course , being the exact opposite of r-o-w-d-i-e .
and then the second time i tried it , the counselor came up to me with a concerned expression on her face and she repeated the point about camp spirit and said we should all work very hard to be outgoing .
and so i put my books away , back in their suitcase , and i put them under my bed , and there they stayed for the rest of the summer .
and i felt kind of guilty about this .
i felt as if the books needed me somehow , and they were calling out to me and i was forsaking them .
but i did forsake them and i didn 't open that suitcase again until i was back home with my family at the end of the summer .
now , i tell you this story about summer camp .
i could have told you 50 others just like it -- all the times that i got the message that somehow my quiet and introverted style of being was not necessarily the right way to go , that i should be trying to pass as more of an extrovert .
and i always sensed deep down that this was wrong and that introverts were pretty excellent just as they were .
but for years i denied this intuition , and so i became a wall street lawyer , of all things , instead of the writer that i had always longed to be -- partly because i needed to prove to myself that i could be bold and assertive too .
and i was always going off to crowded bars when i really would have preferred to just have a nice dinner with friends .
and i made these self-negating choices so reflexively , that i wasn 't even aware that i was making them .
now this is what many introverts do , and it 's our loss for sure , but it is also our colleagues ' loss and our communities ' loss .
and at the risk of sounding grandiose , it is the world 's loss .
because when it comes to creativity and to leadership , we need introverts doing what they do best .
a third to a half of the population are introverts -- a third to a half .
so that 's one out of every two or three people you know .
so even if you 're an extrovert yourself , i 'm talking about your coworkers and your spouses and your children and the person sitting next to you right now -- all of them subject to this bias that is pretty deep and real in our society .
we all internalize it from a very early age without even having a language for what we 're doing .
now to see the bias clearly you need to understand what introversion is .
it 's different from being shy .
shyness is about fear of social judgment .
introversion is more about , how do you respond to stimulation , including social stimulation .
so extroverts really crave large amounts of stimulation , whereas introverts feel at their most alive and their most switched-on and their most capable when they 're in quieter , more low-key environments .
not all the time -- these things aren 't absolute -- but a lot of the time .
so the key then to maximizing our talents is for us all to put ourselves in the zone of stimulation that is right for us .
but now here 's where the bias comes in .
our most important institutions , our schools and our workplaces , they are designed mostly for extroverts and for extroverts ' need for lots of stimulation .
and also we have this belief system right now that i call the new groupthink , which holds that all creativity and all productivity comes from a very oddly gregarious place .
so if you picture the typical classroom nowadays : when i was going to school , we sat in rows .
we sat in rows of desks like this , and we did most of our work pretty autonomously .
but nowadays , your typical classroom has pods of desks -- four or five or six or seven kids all facing each other .
and kids are working in countless group assignments .
even in subjects like math and creative writing , which you think would depend on solo flights of thought , kids are now expected to act as committee members .
and for the kids who prefer to go off by themselves or just to work alone , those kids are seen as outliers often or , worse , as problem cases .
and the vast majority of teachers reports believing that the ideal student is an extrovert as opposed to an introvert , even though introverts actually get better grades and are more knowledgeable , according to research .
okay , same thing is true in our workplaces .
now , most of us work in open plan offices , without walls , where we are subject to the constant noise and gaze of our coworkers .
and when it comes to leadership , introverts are routinely passed over for leadership positions , even though introverts tend to be very careful , much less likely to take outsize risks -- which is something we might all favor nowadays .
and interesting research by adam grant at the wharton school has found that introverted leaders often deliver better outcomes than extroverts do , because when they are managing proactive employees , they 're much more likely to let those employees run with their ideas , whereas an extrovert can , quite unwittingly , get so excited about things that they 're putting their own stamp on things , and other people 's ideas might not as easily then bubble up to the surface .
now in fact , some of our transformative leaders in history have been introverts .
i 'll give you some examples .
eleanor roosevelt , rosa parks , gandhi -- all these peopled described themselves as quiet and soft-spoken and even shy .
and they all took the spotlight , even though every bone in their bodies was telling them not to .
and this turns out to have a special power all its own , because people could feel that these leaders were at the helm , not because they enjoyed directing others and not out of the pleasure of being looked at ; they were there because they had no choice , because they were driven to do what they thought was right .
now i think at this point it 's important for me to say that i actually love extroverts .
i always like to say some of my best friends are extroverts , including my beloved husband .
and we all fall at different points , of course , along the introvert / extrovert spectrum .
even carl jung , the psychologist who first popularized these terms , said that there 's no such thing as a pure introvert or a pure extrovert .
he said that such a man would be in a lunatic asylum , if he existed at all .
and some people fall smack in the middle of the introvert / extrovert spectrum , and we call these people ambiverts .
and i often think that they have the best of all worlds .
but many of us do recognize ourselves as one type or the other .
and what i 'm saying is that culturally we need a much better balance .
we need more of a yin and yang between these two types .
this is especially important when it comes to creativity and to productivity , because when psychologists look at the lives of the most creative people , what they find are people who are very good at exchanging ideas and advancing ideas , but who also have a serious streak of introversion in them .
and this is because solitude is a crucial ingredient often to creativity .
so darwin , he took long walks alone in the woods and emphatically turned down dinner party invitations .
theodor geisel , better known as dr. seuss , he dreamed up many of his amazing creations in a lonely bell tower office that he had in the back of his house in la jolla , california .
and he was actually afraid to meet the young children who read his books for fear that they were expecting him this kind of jolly santa claus-like figure and would be disappointed with his more reserved persona .
steve wozniak invented the first apple computer sitting alone in his cubical in hewlett-packard where he was working at the time .
and he says that he never would have become such an expert in the first place had he not been too introverted to leave the house when he was growing up .
now of course , this does not mean that we should all stop collaborating -- and case in point , is steve wozniak famously coming together with steve jobs to start apple computer -- but it does mean that solitude matters and that for some people it is the air that they breathe .
and in fact , we have known for centuries about the transcendent power of solitude .
it 's only recently that we 've strangely begun to forget it .
if you look at most of the world 's major religions , you will find seekers -- moses , jesus , buddha , muhammad --
seekers who are going off by themselves alone to the wilderness where they then have profound epiphanies and revelations that they then bring back to the rest of the community .
so no wilderness , no revelations .
this is no surprise though if you look at the insights of contemporary psychology .
it turns out that we can 't even be in a group of people without instinctively mirroring , mimicking their opinions .
even about seemingly personal and visceral things like who you 're attracted to , you will start aping the beliefs of the people around you without even realizing that that 's what you 're doing .
and groups famously follow the opinions of the most dominant or charismatic person in the room , even though there 's zero correlation between being the best talker and having the best ideas -- i mean zero .
so ...
you might be following the person with the best ideas , but you might not .
and do you really want to leave it up to chance ?
much better for everybody to go off by themselves , generate their own ideas freed from the distortions of group dynamics , and then come together as a team to talk them through in a well-managed environment and take it from there .
now if all this is true , then why are we getting it so wrong ?
why are we setting up our schools this way and our workplaces ?
and why are we making these introverts feel so guilty about wanting to just go off by themselves some of the time ?
one answer lies deep in our cultural history .
western societies , and in particular the u.s. , have always favored the man of action over the man of contemplation and " man " of contemplation .
but in america 's early days , we lived in what historians call a culture of character , where we still , at that point , valued people for their inner selves and their moral rectitude .
and if you look at the self-help books from this era , they all had titles with things like " character , the grandest thing in the world . "
and they featured role models like abraham lincoln who was praised for being modest and unassuming .
ralph waldo emerson called him " a man who does not offend by superiority . "
but then we hit the 20th century and we entered a new culture that historians call the culture of personality .
what happened is we had evolved an agricultural economy to a world of big business .
and so suddenly people are moving from small towns to the cities .
and instead of working alongside people they 've known all their lives , now they are having to prove themselves in a crowd of strangers .
so , quite understandably , qualities like magnetism and charisma suddenly come to seem really important .
and sure enough , the self-help books change to meet these new needs and they start to have names like " how to win friends and influence people . "
and they feature as their role models really great salesmen .
so that 's the world we 're living in today .
that 's our cultural inheritance .
now none of this is to say that social skills are unimportant , and i 'm also not calling for the abolishing of teamwork at all .
the same religions who send their sages off to lonely mountain tops also teach us love and trust .
and the problems that we are facing today in fields like science and in economics are so vast and so complex that we are going to need armies of people coming together to solve them working together .
but i am saying that the more freedom that we give introverts to be themselves , the more likely that they are to come up with their own unique solutions to these problems .
so now i 'd like to share with you what 's in my suitcase today .
guess what ?
books .
i have a suitcase full of books .
here 's margaret atwood , " cat 's eye . "
here 's a novel by milan kundera .
and here 's " the guide for the perplexed " by maimonides .
but these are not exactly my books .
i brought these books with me because they were written by my grandfather 's favorite authors .
my grandfather was a rabbi and he was a widower who lived alone in a small apartment in brooklyn that was my favorite place in the world when i was growing up , partly because it was filled with his very gentle , very courtly presence and partly because it was filled with books .
i mean literally every table , every chair in this apartment had yielded its original function to now serve as a surface for swaying stacks of books .
just like the rest of my family , my grandfather 's favorite thing to do in the whole world was to read .
but he also loved his congregation , and you could feel this love in the sermons that he gave every week for the 62 years that he was a rabbi .
he would takes the fruits of each week 's reading and he would weave these intricate tapestries of ancient and humanist thought .
and people would come from all over to hear him speak .
but here 's the thing about my grandfather .
underneath this ceremonial role , he was really modest and really introverted -- so much so that when he delivered these sermons , he had trouble making eye contact with the very same congregation that he had been speaking to for 62 years .
and even away from the podium , when you called him to say hello , he would often end the conversation prematurely for fear that he was taking up too much of your time .
but when he died at the age of 94 , the police had to close down the streets of his neighborhood to accommodate the crowd of people who came out to mourn him .
and so these days i try to learn from my grandfather 's example in my own way .
so i just published a book about introversion , and it took me about seven years to write .
and for me , that seven years was like total bliss , because i was reading , i was writing , i was thinking , i was researching .
it was my version of my grandfather 's hours of the day alone in his library .
but now all of a sudden my job is very different , and my job is to be out here talking about it , talking about introversion .
and that 's a lot harder for me , because as honored as i am to be here with all of you right now , this is not my natural milieu .
so i prepared for moments like these as best i could .
i spent the last year practicing public speaking every chance i could get .
and i call this my " year of speaking dangerously . "
and that actually helped a lot .
but i 'll tell you , what helps even more is my sense , my belief , my hope that when it comes to our attitudes to introversion and to quiet and to solitude , we truly are poised on the brink on dramatic change .
i mean , we are .
and so i am going to leave you now with three calls for action for those who share this vision .
number one : stop the madness for constant group work .
just stop it .
thank you .
and i want to be clear about what i 'm saying , because i deeply believe our offices should be encouraging casual , chatty cafe-style types of interactions -- you know , the kind where people come together and serendipitously have an exchange of ideas .
that is great .
it 's great for introverts and it 's great for extroverts .
but we need much more privacy and much more freedom and much more autonomy at work .
school , same thing .
we need to be teaching kids to work together , for sure , but we also need to be teaching them how to work on their own .
this is especially important for extroverted children too .
they need to work on their own because that is where deep thought comes from in part .
okay , number two : go to the wilderness .
be like buddha , have your own revelations .
i 'm not saying that we all have to now go off and build our own cabins in the woods and never talk to each other again , but i am saying that we could all stand to unplug and get inside our own heads a little more often .
number three : take a good look at what 's inside your own suitcase and why you put it there .
so extroverts , maybe your suitcases are also full of books .
or maybe they 're full of champagne glasses or skydiving equipment .
whatever it is , i hope you take these things out every chance you get and grace us with your energy and your joy .
but introverts , you being you , you probably have the impulse to guard very carefully what 's inside your own suitcase .
and that 's okay .
but occasionally , just occasionally , i hope you will open up your suitcases for other people to see , because the world needs you and it needs the things you carry .
so i wish you the best of all possible journeys and the courage to speak softly .
thank you very much .
thank you . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / hector _ ruiz _ on _ connecting _ the _ world.html
hector ruiz , the executive chair of amd , wants to give internet access to everyone . in this talk , he shares his extraordinary life story and describes amd 's 50x15 initiative that calls for connecting 50 percent of the world by 2015 .
africa , education , global issues , philanthropy , technology
255
hector ruiz on connecting the world
you know , one of the things that i 'd like to say upfront is that i 'm really here by accident .
and what i mean -- not at ted -- that i 'm -- at this point in my life , truly my set of circumstances i would truly consider an accident .
but what i 'd like to talk to you about today is perhaps a way in which we could use technology to make those accidents happen often .
because i really think , when i look back at how i actually ended up in this accident , technology played a big role in that .
so , what i 'd like to do today is tell you a little bit about myself , because i 'd like to put in context what i 'm going to tell you .
and i think you will see why the two greatest passions in my life today are children and education .
and once i put that in context , i 'd like to tell you a little bit about technology : why i believe technology is a tremendous enabler ; a very powerful tool to help address some of these challenges .
then , about the initiative that chris mentioned , that we decided to launch at amd that we call 50x15 . and then i 'll come back to the beginning , and tell you a little bit more -- hopefully convince you -- that i believe that in today 's world , it is really important for business leaders not only to have an idea of what their business is all about , but to have a passion for something that is meaningful .
so , with that in mind , first of all let me tell you , i 'm one of five children . i 'm the oldest , the other four are women .
so i grew up in a family of women .
i learned a lot about how to deal with that part of the world .
and , as you can imagine , if you can picture this : i was born in a very small village in mexico ,
in , unfortunately , very poor surroundings , and my parents did not have a college education .
but i was fortunate to be able to have one , and so were my four sisters .
that kind of tells you a little bit of an idea of the emphasis that my parents placed on education . my parents were fanatics about learning , and i 'll come back to that a little bit later .
but one of the things that exposed me early to learning , and a tremendous curiosity that was instilled in me as a child , was through a technology which is on the screen -- is a victrola .
my father found that in a junkyard , and was able to repair it and make it work . and somehow -- to this day , i frankly don 't know how he was so aware of what was going on in the world -- but , by inviting me to sit down with him when i was only a few years old , and playing records in this victrola by mozart , and he would tell me how mozart was the most romantic of all the classic composers ever , and how claire de lune , which was one of his favorites , was a real exposure to me to classical music .
he explained to me about johann strauss , and how he created the waltzes that became so famous in the world .
and would tell me a little bit about history too , when he 'd play the 1812 overture by tchaikovsky on this little victrola , and he would tell me about russia and all the things that were happening in russia at those times and why this music , in some way , represented a little bit of that history .
and even as a child , he was able to instill in me a lot of curiosity .
and perhaps to you this product may not look like high tech , but if you can imagine the time when this occurred -- it was in the mid ' 40s -- this was really , in his view , a pretty piece of high tech .
well , one of the things that is really critical to try to distill from that experience is that in addition to that , people ask me and say , " well , how did your parents treat you when you were a child ? "
and i always said that they were really tough on me .
and not tough in the sense that most people think of , where your parents yell at you or hit you or whatever . they were tough in the sense that , as i grew up , both my mother and father would always say to me , it 's really important that you always remember two things .
first of all , when you go to bed at night , you 've got to look back on the day and make sure that you felt the day was a day which you contributed something , and that you did everything you could to do it the best way you could .
and the second thing they said : and we trust you , that no matter where you are or where you go , you will always do the right thing .
now , i don 't know how many of you have ever done that with your kids , but if you do , please trust me , it 's the most pressure you can put on a child , to say -- -- we trust you that you will always do the right thing .
when i was out with my friends drinking beer , i always was very aware of those words --
-- and very careful . one of the things that has happened with technology is that it can only be helpful if it is useful , of course , but it can only be helpful too if it 's accessible , and in today 's world , being useful , affordable and accessible is not necessarily what happens in a lot of the technology that is done today .
so , one of our passions in our company , and now one of my personal passions , is to be able to really work hard at making the technology useful , accessible and affordable .
and to me , that is very , very critical .
now , technology has changed a lot since the victrola days . you know , we now have , of course , incredibly powerful computers .
a tremendous thing that people refer to as a killer app is called the internet .
although frankly speaking , we don 't believe the internet is the killer app .
what we believe is that the internet , frankly , is a connection of people and ideas .
the internet happens to be just the medium in which those people and ideas get connected .
and the power of connecting people and ideas can be pretty awesome .
and so , we believe that through all the changes that have occurred , that we 're faced today with a tremendous opportunity .
if we can connect people and ideas more intensely -- and although you 've seen a plethora and a myriad of products that have come to the market today , the key to me is how many of these products are able to provide people connectivity , in a useful way ,
accessibility , in an easy manner , and also affordability , that regardless of the economic status that a person could have , that they could have the opportunity to afford this technology .
so , when you look at that , we said , well , we would like to , then , enable that a little bit . we would like to create an initiative .
and a couple of years ago at amd , we came up with this idea of saying , what if we create this initiative we call 50x15 , where we are going to aim , that by the year 2015 , half of the world will be connected to the internet so that people and ideas can get connected .
we knew we couldn 't do it by ourselves , and by no means did we ever intend to imply that we at amd could do it alone .
we always felt that this was something that could be done through partnerships with governments , industry , educational institutions , a myriad of other companies and , frankly , even competitors .
so , it is really a rather lofty initiative , if you want to think that way , but we felt that we had to put a real stake up in the years ahead , that was bold enough and courageous enough that it would force us all to think of ways to do things differently .
and i 'll come back to that in a minute , because i think the results so far have been remarkable , and i can only anticipate and get real excited about what i think is going to happen in the next eight years , while we get to the 2015 initiative .
where are we today ?
that 's year by year . this comes from our friends at gapminder.com .
those of you who 've never looked at their website , you should look at it . it 's really impressive . and you can see how the internet penetration has changed over the years .
and so when we gave ourselves this scorecard to say well , where are we related to our goal towards 2015 ,
the thing that becomes apparent is three pieces .
one is the western world , defined mostly by western europe and the united states , has made an awful lot of progress .
the connectivity in these parts of the world are really truly phenomenal and continue to increase .
as a matter of fact , we think reaching 100 percent is very doable , even before the 2015 timeframe . in other parts of emerging countries , such as india and china , the progress has been good --
has been solid , has been good . but in places that are not as developed , places like africa , latin america and other places in the world , the progress has been rather slow . as a matter of fact , i was just recently visiting south africa . i had the opportunity to have a discussion with president mbeki , and one of the things that we talked about is , what is it that 's keeping this connectivity goal from moving ahead faster ?
and one of the reasons is , in south africa , it costs 100 dollars a month to have a broadband connectivity .
it is impossible , even in the united states , for that cost , to be able to enable the connectivity that we 're all trying to reach .
so , we talked about ways in which perhaps one could partner to be able to bring the cost of this technology down .
so , when you look at this chart , you look at the very last -- it 's a logarithmic chart on a horizontal scale --
you look at the very end : we 've got quite a long way to go to get to the 2015 goal of 50 percent .
but we 're excited in our company ; we 're motivated . we really think it 's a phenomenal driver of things , to force us to do things differently , and we look forward to being able to actually , working with so many partners around the world , to be able to reach that goal .
now , one of the things i 'd like to explain [ about ] 50x15 , which i think is really critical , is that it is not a charity .
it is actually a business venture .
let 's take a small segment of this , of this unconnected world , and call it the education market .
when you look at elementary-school children , we have hundreds and hundreds of millions of children around the world that could benefit tremendously from being able to be connected to the internet .
therefore , when we see that , we see an opportunity to have a business that addresses the need of that segment .
and when we embarked in this initiative , from the very beginning we said it very clearly : this is not a charity .
this is really a business venture , one that addresses a very challenging segment of the market .
because what we have learned in the last three years is that this segment of the market , whether it 's education or under-developed nations , either way , it 's a segment that demands incredibly high quality , incredibly high reliability , tremendous low cost and access , and a lot of challenges that frankly , without actually doing it , it would be very difficult to understand , and i 'll explain that in just a minute .
it is an initiative that is focused on simple , accessible and human-centric solutions .
what we mean by that is , you know , frankly , the pc was invented in 1980 , roughly speaking more or less , and for 20-odd years , it hasn 't changed .
it is still , in most places , a gray or black box , and it looks the same .
and frankly -- and i know that sometimes i offend some of my customers when i say this , but i truly mean it -- if you could take the name of the computer off the top of it , it would be very difficult to judge who made it , because they 're all highly commoditized but they 're all different .
so , there has not been a human-centric approach to addressing this segment of the market , so we really believe it is critical to think of it .
it reminded me a lot of the talk we heard this morning , about this operating room machinery that was designed specifically for africa .
we 're talking about something very similar here .
and it has to be based on a geo-sensitive approach .
what i mean by that is that in some parts of the world , the government plays a key role in the development of technology .
in other parts , it doesn 't .
in other parts of the world , you have an infrastructure that allows for manufacturing to take place .
in other parts , it doesn 't . and then we have to be sensitive about how this technology can be developed and put into action in those regions .
and the last piece , which is really important -- and this is an opinion that we have , not shared by many , this is one where we seem to stand alone , on this one --
is that we really believe that the greatest success of this initiative can come by fostering local , integrated , end-to-end ecosystems .
what i mean by that , and let me use this example , the country of south africa , because i was just there , therefore i 'm a little bit familiar with some of the challenges they have .
it 's a country of 45 million people . it 's an economy that 's emerging .
it 's beginning to grow tremendously .
they have an objective to lowering the cost of connectivity .
they have a computer company that makes computers in south africa .
they 're developing a software-training environment in their universities .
what a place , what an ideal place to create an ecosystem that could build the hardware and the software needed for their schools . and to my surprise , i learned in south africa they have 18 dialects , i always thought they only had two -- english and afrikaans -- but it turns out they have 18 dialects .
and to be able to meet the needs of this rather complex educational system , it could only be done from inside .
i don 't think this segment of the market can be addressed by companies parachuting from another place of the world , and just dumping product and selling into the markets .
so , we believe that in those regions of the world where the population is large , and there 's an infrastructure that can provide it , that a local , integrated , end-to-end system is really critical for its success .
this is a picture of a classroom that we outfitted with computers in mexico , in my home country .
this particular classroom happens to be in the state of michoacan .
those of you that might be familiar with mexico -- michoacan is a very colorful state .
children dress with very colorful , colorful clothes , and it is incredible to see the power that this has in the hands of kids , in a computer . and i have to tell you that it 's so easy to appreciate the impact that access to technology and connectivity can have in the lives and education of these kids .
we just recently opened a learning laboratory in a school in the west cape in south africa , in a school that 's called nelson mandela school ,
and when you see the faces and activities of these children being able to access computers , it 's just phenomenal .
and recently , they 've written us letters , telling us how excited they are about the impact that this has had on their lives , on their educational dreams , on their capabilities , and it 's just phenomenal .
we have now deployed 30 different technologists in 18 different countries , and we have been able to connect millions of people in an effort to continue to learn what this particular segment of the market needs and demands .
and i have to tell you that although millions doesn 't sound like a lot in terms of the billions that need to be connected , it 's a start . and we are learning a lot .
and we 're learning a tremendous amount about what we believe this segment needs to be able to be effective .
one example of this has been the one laptop per child .
some of you are familiar with this .
this is a partnership between mit and a group of companies -- google is involved , red hat -- and amd is a key player .
the electronics behind the one laptop per child are based on amd technology ; it 's a microprocessor .
but to give you an idea how creative this group of people can be , one of the objectives of the one laptop per child is to be able to achieve a 10-hour battery life .
because it was felt that a school day would last at least eight hours , and you wanted the child to have the ability to use the laptop for at least one full day without having to recharge it .
the engineers have done a phenomenal amount of innovation on this part , and battery life on this product is now 15 hours --
just through a lot of innovative work people have done because they 're passionate and motivated to be able to do this .
we expect this to be deployed towards the end of this year , and we 're very excited at the opportunities that this is going to offer in the field of education .
it 's a highly focused product aimed at strictly the education market ,
not only in the developing countries , but actually in the developed regions as well , because there are parts of the united states where this can have also a huge impact on the ability to make education more fun and more efficient .
we also have partnered with ted in this project , with architecture for humanity , and along with the ted prize winner cameron sinclair , we 're having a contest that we have issued to the architectural community to come up with the best design for a computer lab for an emerging region .
and we 're really thrilled about the opportunity to be part of this , and can 't wait to see what comes out of this exciting , exciting activity .
let me come back to the beginning , to end this presentation .
i 'll tell you that one of the things that i feel is really critical for us in industry , in business ,
is to be able to be passionate about solving these problems .
i don 't think it 's enough to be able to put them on a spreadsheet , and look at numbers and say , yes , that 's a good business .
i really believe that you have to have a passion for it .
and one of the things that i learned , too , from my parents -- and i 'll give you a little anecdote -- especially from my father .
and it took me a while to understand it , but he said to me , when i went to college , he said , " you 're the first person in the family to go to college .
and it 's really important you understand that for civilization to make progress , each generation has to do better than the last one .
and therefore , this is your opportunity to do better than my generation . "
frankly , i don 't know that i really understood what he told me at the time . i was eager to go off to college , and go find girls , and study , and girls , and study , but then i finished college and i fell in love . i graduated . i decided to get married .
and on my wedding day , my father came to me again and said , " you know , i 'm going to remind you again , that each generation has to do better than the last one .
you have to be a better husband than i was , because that 's how you make progress . " and now he began to make sense .
because i knew what a great husband he was , and now he was once again beginning to put pressure on me , like he did when i was a little kid . and then a few years later , i had a child , my first child , and again , my father comes to the hospital , and we 're looking at the glass , and see all the children on the other side , and he said , " i 've got to remind you again , that for each generation to do better ,
you 're going to have to be a better father than i was . "
that 's when it dawned on me the tremendous challenge that he was placing on me , because he was a great father .
but the key is that he instilled in me a passion to really get up every day in the morning and want to do better ,
to really get up and think that my role in life is not just to be the ceo of a fortune 500 company .
it 's got to be that someday i can look back , and this place is truly better through some small contribution that perhaps each of us could make .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / rick _ warren _ on _ a _ life _ of _ purpose.html
pastor rick warren , author of < em > the purpose-driven life , < / em > reflects on his own crisis of purpose in the wake of his book 's wild success . he explains his belief that god 's intention is for each of us to use our talents and influence to do good .
christianity , god , culture , happiness , leadership , philanthropy , religion
71
rick warren on a life of purpose
i 'm often asked , what surprises you about the book ?
and i said , that i got to write it .
i would have never imagined that , not in my wildest dreams did i think -- i don 't even consider myself to be an author .
and i 'm often asked , why do you think so many people have read this ?
this thing 's selling still about a million copies a month .
and i think it 's because spiritual emptiness is a universal disease .
i think inside at some point , we put our heads down on the pillow and we go , " there 's got to be more to life than this . "
get up in the morning , go to work , come home and watch tv , go to bed , get up in the morning , go to work , come home , watch tv , go to bed , go to parties on weekends .
a lot of people say , " i 'm living . " no , you 're not living -- that 's just existing .
just existing .
i really think that 's there 's this inner desire .
i do believe what chris said . i believe that you 're not an accident .
your parents may not have planned you , but i believe god did .
i think there are accidental parents ; there 's no doubt about that .
i don 't think there are accidental kids .
and i think you matter .
i think you matter to god ; i think you matter to history ; i think you matter to this universe .
and i think that the difference between what i call the survival level of living , the success level of living and the significant level of living is , do you figure out , what on earth am i here for ?
i meet a lot of people who are very smart , and say , " but why can 't i figure out my problems ? "
and i meet a lot of people who are very successful , who say , " why don 't i feel more fulfilled ?
why do i feel like a fake ?
why do i feel like i 've got to pretend that i 'm more than i really am ? "
i think that comes down to this issue of meaning , of significance , of purpose .
i think it comes down to this issue of : why am i here ? what am i here for ? where am i going ?
these are not religious issues -- they 're human issues .
i wanted to tell michael before he spoke that i really appreciate what he does , because it makes my life work a whole lot easier .
as a pastor , i do see a lot of kooks .
and i have learned that there are kooks in every area of life .
religion doesn 't have a monopoly on that , but there are plenty of religious kooks .
there are secular kooks ; there are smart kooks , dumb kooks .
there are people -- a lady came up to me the other day , and she had a white piece of paper -- michael , you 'll like this one -- and she said , " what do you see in it ? "
and i looked at it and i said , " oh , i don 't see anything . "
and she goes , " well , i see jesus , " and started crying and left .
i 'm going , ok , you know . fine .
um .
when the book became the best-selling book in the world for the last three years , i kind of had my little crisis .
and that was : what is the purpose of this ?
because it brought in enormous amounts of money .
when you write the best-selling book in the world , it 's tons and tons of money --
and it brought in a lot of attention , neither of which i wanted .
when i started saddleback church , i was 25 years old .
i started it with one other family in 1980 .
and i decided that i was never going to go on tv , because i didn 't want to be a celebrity , i didn 't want to be a , quote , " evangelist , televangelist " -- that 's not my thing .
and all of a sudden , it brought a lot of money and a lot of attention .
i don 't think -- now , this is a worldview , and i will tell you , everybody 's got a worldview .
everybody 's betting their life on something .
you 're betting your life on something -- you just better know why you 're betting what you 're betting on .
so , everybody 's betting their life on something , and when i , you know , made a bet , i happened to believe that jesus was who he said he was .
but everybody 's got -- and i believe in a pluralistic society -- everybody 's betting on something .
and when i started the church , you know , i had no plans to do what it 's doing now .
and then when i wrote this book , and all of a sudden it just took off , then i started saying , now , what 's the purpose of this ?
because as i started to say , i don 't think you 're given money or fame for your own ego , ever .
i just don 't believe that .
and when you write a book that the first sentence of the book is , " it 's not about you , " then , when all of a sudden it becomes the best-selling book in history , you got to figure , well , i guess it 's not about me .
that 's kind of a no-brainer .
so , what is it for ?
and i began to think about what i call the " stewardship of affluence " and the " stewardship of influence . "
so i believe , essentially , that leadership is stewardship .
that if you are a leader in any area -- in business , in politics , in sports , in art , in academics , in any area -- you don 't own it ; you are a steward of it .
for instance , that 's why i believe in protecting the environment .
this is not my planet . it wasn 't mine before i was born .
it 's not going to be mine after i die .
i 'm just here for 80 years and then that 's it .
i was debating the other day on a talk show , and the guy was challenging me and go , " what 's a pastor doing on protecting the environment ? "
and i asked this guy , i said , " well , do you believe that human beings are responsible to make the world a little bit better place for the next generation ?
do you think we have a stewardship here , to take the environment seriously ? "
and he said , " no . "
i said , " oh , you don 't ? " i said , " let me make this clear again .
do you believe that as human beings -- i 'm not talking about religion -- do you believe that as human beings , it is our responsibility to take care of this planet and make it just a little bit better for the next generation ? "
and he said , " no .
not any more than any other species . "
when he said the word " species , " he was revealing his worldview .
and he was saying , " i 'm no more responsible to take care of this environment than a duck is . "
well now , i know a lot of times we act like ducks , but you 're not a duck .
you 're not a duck .
and you are responsible -- that 's my worldview .
and so , you need to understand what your worldview is .
the problem is most people never really think it through .
they never really codify it or qualify it or quantify it , and say , " this is what i believe in .
this is why i believe what i believe . "
i don 't personally have enough faith to be an atheist .
but you may , you may .
your worldview , though , does determine everything else in your life , because it determines your decisions ; it determines your relationships ; it determines your level of confidence .
it determines , really , everything in your life .
what we believe , obviously -- and you know this -- determines our behavior , and our behavior determines what we become in life .
so all of this money started pouring in , and all of this fame started pouring in , and i go , what do i do with this ?
my wife and i first made five decisions on what to do with the money .
we said , " first , we 're not going to use it on ourselves . "
i didn 't go out and buy a bigger house .
i don 't own a guesthouse .
i still drive the same four-year-old ford that i 've driven .
we just said , we 're not going to use it on us .
the second thing was , i stopped taking a salary from the church that i pastor .
third thing is , i added up all that the church had paid me over the last 25 years , and i gave it back .
and i gave it back because i didn 't want anybody thinking that i do what i do for money -- i don 't .
in fact , personally , i 've never met a priest or a pastor or a minister who does it for money .
i know that 's a stereotype . i 've never met one of them .
believe me , there 's a whole lot easier ways to make money .
pastors are like on 24-hours-a-day call . they 're like doctors .
i left late today . i 'd hoped to be here yesterday , because my father-in-law is in his last , probably , 48 hours before he dies of cancer .
and i 'm watching a guy who 's lived his life -- he 's now in his mid-80s -- and he 's dying with peace . you know , the test of your worldview is not how you act in the good times .
the test of your worldview is how you act at the funeral .
and having been through literally hundreds if not thousands of funerals , it makes a difference .
it makes a difference what you believe .
so , we gave it all back , and then we set up three foundations , working on some of the major problems of the world : illiteracy , poverty , pandemic diseases -- particularly hiv / aids -- and set up these three foundations , and put the money into that .
the last thing we did is we became what i call " reverse tithers . "
and that is , when my wife and i got married 30 years ago , we started tithing .
now , that 's a principle in the bible that says give 10 percent of what you get back to charity , give it away to help other people .
so , we started doing that , and each year we would raise our tithe 1 percent .
so , our first year of marriage we went to 11 percent , second year we went to 12 percent , and the third year we went to 13 percent , and on and on and on . why did i do that ?
because every time i give , it breaks the grip of materialism in my life .
materialism is all about getting -- get , get , get , get all you can , can all you get , sit on the can and spoil the rest .
it 's all about more , having more .
and we think that the good life is actually looking good --
that 's most important of all -- looking good , feeling good and having the goods .
but that 's not the good life .
i meet people all the time who have those , and they 're not necessarily happy .
if money actually made you happy , then the wealthiest people in the world would be the happiest .
and that i know , personally , i know , is not true .
it 's just not true .
so , the good life is not about looking good , feeling good or having the goods ;
it 's about being good and doing good .
giving your life away .
significance in life doesn 't come from status , because you can always find somebody who 's got more than you .
it doesn 't come from sex .
it doesn 't come from salary .
it comes from serving .
it is in giving our lives away that we find meaning , we find significance .
that 's the way we were wired , i believe , by god .
and so we began to give away , and now after 30 years , my wife and i are reverse tithers -- we give away 90 percent and live on 10 .
that , actually , was the easy part .
the hard part is , what do i do with all this attention ?
because i start getting all kinds of invitations .
i just came off a nearly month-long speaking tour on three different continents , and i won 't go into that , but it was an amazing thing .
and i 'm going , what do i do with this notoriety that the book has brought ?
and being a pastor , i started reading the bible .
there 's a chapter in the bible called psalm 72 , and it 's solomon 's prayer for more influence .
when you read this prayer , it sounds incredibly selfish , self-centered .
it sounds like , he says , " god , i want you to make me famous . "
that 's what he prays .
he says , " i want you to make me famous .
i want you to spread the fame of my name through every land . i want you to give me power . i want you to make me famous .
i want you to give me influence . "
and it just sounds like the most egotistical request you could make if you were going to pray .
until you read the whole psalm , the whole chapter .
and then he says , " so that the king " -- he was the king of israel at that time at its apex in power -- " so that the king may care for the widow and orphan , support depressed , defend the defenseless , care for the sick , assist the poor , speak up for the foreigner , those in prison . "
basically , he 's talking about all the marginalized in society .
and as i read that , i looked at it , and i thought , you know , what this is saying is that the purpose of influence is to speak up for those who have no influence .
the purpose of influence is not to build your ego , or your net worth .
and , by the way , your net worth is not the same thing as your self-worth .
your value is not based on your valuables ; it 's based on a whole different set of things .
and so the purpose of influence is to speak up for those who have no influence .
and i had to admit , i can 't think of the last time i thought of widows and orphans .
they 're not on my radar .
i pastor a church in one of the most affluent areas of america -- a bunch of gated communities .
i have a church full of ceos and scientists .
and i could go five years and never , ever see a homeless person .
they 're just not in my pathway .
now , they 're 13 miles up the road in santa ana .
so , i had to say , " ok , i would use whatever affluence and whatever influence i 've got to help those who don 't have either of those . "
you know , there 's a story in the bible about moses .
whether you believe it 's true or not -- it really didn 't matter to me .
but moses , if you saw the movie , " the ten commandments , " moses goes out , and there 's this burning bush , and god talks to him .
and god says , " moses , what 's in your hand ? "
i think that 's one of the most important questions you 'll ever be asked .
what 's in your hand ?
moses says , " it 's a staff .
it 's a shepherd 's staff . "
and god says , " throw it down . "
and if you saw the movie , you know , he throws it down and it becomes a snake .
and then god says , " pick it up . "
and he picks it back up again , and it becomes a staff again .
now , i 'm reading this thing , and i 'm going , what is that all about ?
ok . what 's that all about ? well , i do know a couple of things .
number one , god never does a miracle to show off .
it 's not just , " wow , isn 't that cool ? "
and , by the way , my god doesn 't have to show up on cheese bread .
you know , if god 's going to show up , he 's not going to show up on cheese bread .
ok ? i just , this is why i love what michael does , because it 's like , ok , if he 's debunking it , then i don 't have to .
but god -- my god -- doesn 't show up on sprinkler images .
he got a few more powerful ways than that to do whatever he wants to do .
but he doesn 't do miracles just to show off .
second thing is , if god ever asks you a question , he already knows the answer .
obviously , if he 's god , then that would mean that when he asks the question , it 's for your benefit , not his .
so , he 's going , " what 's in your hand ? "
now , what was in moses ' hand ?
well , it was a shepherd 's staff . now , follow me on this .
this staff represented three things about moses ' life .
first , it represented his identity .
he was a shepherd . it 's the symbol of his own occupation .
i am a shepherd . it 's a symbol of his identity , his career , his job .
second , it 's a symbol of not only his identity ; it 's a symbol of his income , because all of his assets are tied up in sheep .
in those days nobody had bank accounts , or american express cards , or hedge funds .
your assets are tied up in your flocks .
so it 's a symbol of his identity , and it 's a symbol of his income .
and the third thing : it 's a symbol of his influence .
what do you do with a shepherd 's staff ?
well , you know , you move sheep from point a to point b with it , by hook or by crook .
you pull them or you poke them , one or the other .
so , he 's saying , " you 're going to lay down your identity .
what 's in your hand ? you 've got identity ; you 've got income ; you 've got influence .
what 's in your hand ? "
and he 's saying , " if you lay it down , i 'll make it come alive .
i 'll do some things you could never imagine possible . "
and if you 've watched that movie , " ten commandments , " all of those big miracles that happen in egypt are done through this staff .
last year , i was invited to speak at nba all-stars game .
and so , i 'm talking to the players , because most of the nba teams , nfl teams and all the other teams have done this 40 days of purpose , based on the book .
and i asked them , i said , " what 's in your hand ?
so , what 's in your hand ? " i said , " it 's a basketball , and that basketball represents your identity , who you are .
you 're an nba player . it represents your income .
you 're making a lot of money off that little ball .
and it represents your influence .
and even though you 're only going to be in the nba for a few years , you 're going to be an nba player for the rest of your life .
and that gives with you enormous influence .
so , what are you going to do with what you 've been given ? "
and i guess that 's the main reason i came up here today , to all of you very bright people at ted , is to say , " what 's in your hand ? "
what do you have that you 've been given ?
talent , background , education , freedom , networks , opportunities , wealth , ideas , creativity .
what are you doing with what you 've been given ?
that , to me , is the primary question about life .
that , to me , is what being purpose-driven is all about .
in the book i talk about how you 're wired to do certain things , you 're shaped .
this little cross takes spiritual gifts , heart , ability , personality and experiences .
these things shape you .
and if you want to know what you ought to be doing with your life , you need to look at your shape . what am i wired to do ?
why would god wire you to do something and then not have you do it ?
if you 're wired to be an anthropologist , you 'll be an anthropologist .
if you 're wired to be an undersea explorer , you 'll be an undersea explorer .
if you 're wired to make deals , you make deals .
if you 're wired to paint , you paint .
did you know that god smiles when you be you ?
when my little kids were little -- they 're all grown , now i have grandkids -- i used to go in and sit on the side of their bed , and i used to watch my kids sleep .
and i just watched their little bodies rise and lower , rise and lower .
and i would look at them -- this is not an accident .
rise and lower --
and i got joy out of just watching them sleep .
some people have the misguided idea that god only gets excited when you 're doing , quote , " spiritual things , " like going to church or helping the poor , or , you know , confessing or doing something like that .
the bottom line is , god gets pleasure watching you be you . why ?
he made you . and when you do what you were made to do , he goes , " that 's my boy .
that 's my girl .
you 're using the talent and ability that i gave you . "
so my advice to you is , look at what 's in your hand -- your identity , your influence , your income -- and say , " it 's not about me .
it 's about making the world a better place . "
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / nicholas _ negroponte _ takes _ olpc _ to _ colombia.html
ted follows nicholas negroponte to colombia as he delivers laptops inside territory once controlled by guerrillas . his partner ? colombia 's defense department , who see one laptop per child as an investment in the region .
one laptop per child , children , computers , design , education , global issues , philanthropy , politics , technology
423
negroponte takes olpc to colombia
it 's amazing , when you meet a head of state and you say , " what is your most precious natural resource ? " -- they will not say children at first .
and then when you say children , they will pretty quickly agree with you .
: we 're traveling today with the minister of defense of colombia , head of the army and the head of the police , and we 're dropping off 650 laptops today to children who have no television , no telephone and have been in a community cut off from the rest of the world for the past 40 years .
the importance of delivering laptops to this region is connecting kids who have otherwise been unconnected because of the farc , the guerrillas that started off 40 years ago as a political movement and then became a drug movement .
there are one billion children in the world , and 50 percent of them don 't have electricity at home or at school .
and in some countries -- let me pick afghanistan -- 75 percent of the little girls don 't go to school .
and i don 't mean that they drop out of school in the third or fourth grade -- they don 't go .
so in the three years since i talked at ted and showed a prototype , it 's gone from an idea to a real laptop .
we have half a million laptops today in the hands of children .
we have about a quarter of a million in transit to those and other children , and then there are another quarter of a million more that are being ordered at this moment .
so , in rough numbers , there are a million laptops .
that 's smaller than i predicted -- i predicted three to 10 million -- but is still a very large number .
in colombia , we have about 3,000 laptops .
it 's the minister of defense with whom we 're working , not the minister of education , because it is seen as a strategic defense issue in the sense of liberating these zones that had been completely closed off , in which the people who had been causing , if you will , 40 years ' worth of bombings and kidnappings and assassinations lived .
and suddenly , the kids have connected laptops .
they 've leapfrogged .
the change is absolutely monumental , because it 's not just opening it up , but it 's opening it up to the rest of the world .
so yes , they 're building roads , yes , they 're putting in telephone , yes , there will be television .
but the kids six to 12 years old are surfing the internet in spanish and in local languages , so the children grow up with access to information , with a window into the rest of the world .
before , they were closed off .
interestingly enough , in other countries , it will be the minister of finance who sees it as an engine of economic growth .
and that engine is going to see the results in 20 years .
it 's not going to happen , you know , in one year , but it 's an important , deeply economic and cultural change that happens through children .
thirty-one countries in total are involved , and in the case of uruguay , half the children already have them , and by the middle of 2009 , every single child in uruguay will have a laptop -- a little green laptop .
now what are some of the results ?
some of the results that go across every single country include teachers saying they have never loved teaching so much , and reading comprehension measured by third parties -- not by us -- skyrockets .
probably the most important thing we see is children teaching parents .
they own the laptops . they take them home .
and so when i met with three children from the schools , who had traveled all day to come to bogota , one of the three children brought her mother .
and the reason she brought her mother is that this six-year-old child had been teaching her mother how to read and write .
her mother had not gone to primary school .
and this is such an inversion , and such a wonderful example of children being the agents of change .
so now , in closing , people say , now why laptops ?
laptops are a luxury ; it 's like giving them ipods . no .
the reason you want laptops is that the word is education , not laptop .
this is an education project , not a laptop project .
they need to learn learning . and then , just think -- they can have , let 's say , 100 books .
in a village , you have 100 laptops , each with a different set of 100 books , and so that village suddenly has 10,000 books .
you and i didn 't have 10,000 books when we went to primary school .
sometimes school is under a tree , or in many cases , the teacher has only a fifth-grade education , so you need a collaborative model of learning , not just building more schools and training more teachers , which you have to do anyway .
so we 're once again doing " give one , get one . " last year , we ran a " give one , get one " program , and it generated over 100,000 laptops
that we were then able to give free .
and by being a zero-dollar laptop , we can go to countries that can 't afford it at all .
and that 's what we did . we went to haiti , we went to rwanda , afghanistan , ethiopia , mongolia .
places that are not markets , seeding it with the principles of saturation , connectivity , low ages , etc .
and then we can actually roll out large numbers .
so think of it this way : think of it as inoculating children against ignorance .
and think of the laptop as a vaccine .
you don 't vaccinate a few children .
you vaccinate all the children in an area .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / kathryn _ schulz _ on _ being _ wrong.html
most of us will do anything to avoid being wrong . but what if we 're wrong about that ? " wrongologist " kathryn schulz makes a compelling case for not just admitting but embracing our fallibility .
culture , failure
1126
kathryn schulz : on being wrong
so it 's 1995 , i 'm in college , and a friend and i go on a road trip from providence , rhode island to portland , oregon .
and you know , we 're young and unemployed , so we do the whole thing on back roads through state parks and national forests -- basically the longest route we can possibly take .
and somewhere in the middle of south dakota , i turn to my friend and i ask her a question that 's been bothering me for 2,000 miles .
" what 's up with the chinese character i keep seeing by the side of the road ? "
my friend looks at me totally blankly .
there 's actually a gentleman in the front row who 's doing a perfect imitation of her look .
and i 'm like , " you know , all the signs we keep seeing with the chinese character on them . " she just stares at me for a few moments , and then she cracks up , because she figures out what i 'm talking about .
and what i 'm talking about is this . right , the famous chinese character for picnic area .
i 've spent the last five years of my life thinking about situations exactly like this -- why we sometimes misunderstand the signs around us , and how we behave when that happens , and what all of this can tell us about human nature .
in other words , as you heard chris say , i 've spent the last five years thinking about being wrong .
this might strike you as a strange career move , but it actually has one great advantage : no job competition .
in fact , most of us do everything we can to avoid thinking about being wrong , or at least to avoid thinking about the possibility that we ourselves are wrong .
we get it in the abstract .
we all know everybody in this room makes mistakes .
the human species , in general , is fallible -- okay fine .
but when it comes down to me , right now , to all the beliefs i hold , here in the present tense , suddenly all of this abstract appreciation of fallibility goes out the window -- and i can 't actually think of anything i 'm wrong about .
and the thing is , the present tense is where we live .
we go to meetings in the present tense ; we go on family vacations in the present tense ; we go to the polls and vote in the present tense .
so effectively , we all kind of wind up traveling through life , trapped in this little bubble of feeling very right about everything .
i think this is a problem .
i think it 's a problem for each of us as individuals , in our personal and professional lives , and i think it 's a problem for all of us collectively as a culture .
so what i want to do today is , first of all , talk about why we get stuck inside this feeling of being right .
and second , why it 's such a problem .
and finally , i want to convince you that it is possible to step outside of that feeling and that if you can do so , it is the single greatest moral , intellectual and creative leap you can make .
so why do we get stuck in this feeling of being right ?
one reason , actually , has to do with a feeling of being wrong .
so let me ask you guys something -- or actually , let me ask you guys something , because you 're right here : how does it feel -- emotionally -- how does it feel to be wrong ?
dreadful . thumbs down .
embarrassing . okay , wonderful , great .
dreadful , thumbs down , embarrassing -- thank you , these are great answers , but they 're answers to a different question .
you guys are answering the question : how does it feel to realize you 're wrong ?
realizing you 're wrong can feel like all of that and a lot of other things , right ?
i mean it can be devastating , it can be revelatory , it can actually be quite funny , like my stupid chinese character mistake .
but just being wrong doesn 't feel like anything .
i 'll give you an analogy .
do you remember that loony tunes cartoon where there 's this pathetic coyote who 's always chasing and never catching a roadrunner ?
in pretty much every episode of this cartoon , there 's a moment where the coyote is chasing the roadrunner and the roadrunner runs off a cliff , which is fine -- he 's a bird , he can fly .
but the thing is , the coyote runs off the cliff right after him .
and what 's funny -- at least if you 're six years old -- is that the coyote 's totally fine too .
he just keeps running -- right up until the moment that he looks down and realizes that he 's in mid-air .
that 's when he falls .
when we 're wrong about something -- not when we realize it , but before that -- we 're like that coyote after he 's gone off the cliff and before he looks down .
you know , we 're already wrong , we 're already in trouble , but we feel like we 're on solid ground .
so i should actually correct something i said a moment ago .
it does feel like something to be wrong ; it feels like being right .
so this is one reason , a structural reason , why we get stuck inside this feeling of rightness .
i call this error blindness .
most of the time , we don 't have any kind of internal cue to let us know that we 're wrong about something , until it 's too late .
but there 's a second reason that we get stuck inside this feeling as well -- and this one is cultural .
think back for a moment to elementary school .
you 're sitting there in class , and your teacher is handing back quiz papers , and one of them looks like this .
this is not mine , by the way .
so there you are in grade school , and you know exactly what to think about the kid who got this paper .
it 's the dumb kid , the troublemaker , the one who never does his homework .
so by the time you are nine years old , you 've already learned , first of all , that people who get stuff wrong are lazy , irresponsible dimwits -- and second of all , that the way to succeed in life is to never make any mistakes .
we learn these really bad lessons really well .
and a lot of us -- and i suspect , especially a lot of us in this room -- deal with them by just becoming perfect little a students , perfectionists , over-achievers .
right , mr. cfo , astrophysicist , ultra-marathoner ?
you 're all cfo , astrophysicists , ultra-marathoners , it turns out .
okay , so fine .
except that then we freak out at the possibility that we 've gotten something wrong .
because according to this , getting something wrong means there 's something wrong with us .
so we just insist that we 're right , because it makes us feel smart and responsible and virtuous and safe .
so let me tell you a story .
a couple of years ago , a woman comes into beth israel deaconess medical center for a surgery .
beth israel 's in boston .
it 's the teaching hospital for harvard -- one of the best hospitals in the country .
so this woman comes in and she 's taken into the operating room .
she 's anesthetized , the surgeon does his thing -- stitches her back up , sends her out to the recovery room .
everything seems to have gone fine .
and she wakes up , and she looks down at herself , and she says , " why is the wrong side of my body in bandages ? "
well the wrong side of her body is in bandages because the surgeon has performed a major operation on her left leg instead of her right one .
when the vice president for health care quality at beth israel spoke about this incident , he said something very interesting .
he said , " for whatever reason , the surgeon simply felt that he was on the correct side of the patient . " the point of this story is that trusting too much in the feeling of being on the correct side of anything can be very dangerous .
this internal sense of rightness that we all experience so often is not a reliable guide to what is actually going on in the external world .
and when we act like it is , and we stop entertaining the possibility that we could be wrong , well that 's when we end up doing things like dumping 200 million gallons of oil into the gulf of mexico , or torpedoing the global economy .
so this is a huge practical problem .
but it 's also a huge social problem .
think for a moment about what it means to feel right .
it means that you think that your beliefs just perfectly reflect reality .
and when you feel that way , you 've got a problem to solve , which is , how are you going to explain all of those people who disagree with you ?
it turns out , most of us explain those people the same way , by resorting to a series of unfortunate assumptions .
the first thing we usually do when someone disagrees with us is we just assume they 're ignorant .
they don 't have access to the same information that we do , and when we generously share that information with them , they 're going to see the light and come on over to our team .
when that doesn 't work , when it turns out those people have all the same facts that we do and they still disagree with us , then we move on to a second assumption , which is that they 're idiots .
they have all the right pieces of the puzzle , and they are too moronic to put them together correctly .
and when that doesn 't work , when it turns out that people who disagree with us have all the same facts we do and are actually pretty smart , then we move on to a third assumption : they know the truth , and they are deliberately distorting it for their own malevolent purposes .
so this is a catastrophe .
this attachment to our own rightness keeps us from preventing mistakes when we absolutely need to and causes us to treat each other terribly .
but to me , what 's most baffling and most tragic about this is that it misses the whole point of being human .
it 's like we want to imagine that our minds are just these perfectly translucent windows and we just gaze out of them and describe the world as it unfolds .
and we want everybody else to gaze out of the same window and see the exact same thing .
that is not true , and if it were , life would be incredibly boring .
the miracle of your mind isn 't that you can see the world as it is .
it 's that you can see the world as it isn 't .
we can remember the past , and we can think about the future , and we can imagine what it 's like to be some other person in some other place .
and we all do this a little differently , which is why we can all look up at the same night sky and see this and also this and also this .
and yeah , it is also why we get things wrong .
1,200 years before descartes said his famous thing about " i think therefore i am , " this guy , st. augustine , sat down and wrote " fallor ergo sum " -- " i err therefore i am . "
augustine understood that our capacity to screw up , it 's not some kind of embarrassing defect in the human system , something we can eradicate or overcome .
it 's totally fundamental to who we are .
because , unlike god , we don 't really know what 's going on out there .
and unlike all of the other animals , we are obsessed with trying to figure it out .
to me , this obsession is the source and root of all of our productivity and creativity .
last year , for various reasons , i found myself listening to a lot of episodes of the public radio show this american life .
and so i 'm listening and i 'm listening , and at some point , i start feeling like all the stories are about being wrong .
and my first thought was , " i 've lost it .
i 've become the crazy wrongness lady . i just imagined it everywhere , " which has happened .
but a couple of months later , i actually had a chance to interview ira glass , who 's the host of the show .
and i mentioned this to him , and he was like , " no actually , that 's true .
in fact , " he says , " as a staff , we joke that every single episode of our show has the same crypto-theme .
and the crypto-theme is : ' i thought this one thing was going to happen and something else happened instead . ' and the thing is , " says ira glass , " we need this .
we need these moments of surprise and reversal and wrongness to make these stories work . " and for the rest of us , audience members , as listeners , as readers , we eat this stuff up .
we love things like plot twists and red herrings and surprise endings .
when it comes to our stories , we love being wrong .
but , you know , our stories are like this because our lives are like this .
we think this one thing is going to happen and something else happens instead .
george bush thought he was going to invade iraq , find a bunch of weapons of mass destruction , liberate the people and bring democracy to the middle east .
and something else happened instead .
and hosni mubarak thought he was going to be the dictator of egypt for the rest of his life , until he got too old or too sick and could pass the reigns of power onto his son .
and something else happened instead .
and maybe you thought you were going to grow up and marry your high school sweetheart and move back to your hometown and raise a bunch of kids together .
and something else happened instead .
and i have to tell you that i thought i was writing an incredibly nerdy book about a subject everybody hates for an audience that would never materialize .
and something else happened instead .
i mean , this is life .
for good and for ill , we generate these incredible stories about the world around us , and then the world turns around and astonishes us .
no offense , but this entire conference is an unbelievable monument to our capacity to get stuff wrong .
we just spent an entire week talking about innovations and advancements and improvements , but you know why we need all of those innovations and advancements and improvements ?
because half the stuff that 's the most mind-boggling and world-altering -- ted 1998 -- eh .
didn 't really work out that way , did it ?
where 's my jet pack , chris ?
so here we are again .
and that 's how it goes .
we come up with another idea .
we tell another story .
we hold another conference .
the theme of this one , as you guys have now heard seven million times , is the rediscovery of wonder .
and to me , if you really want to rediscover wonder , you need to step outside of that tiny , terrified space of rightness and look around at each other and look out at the vastness and complexity and mystery of the universe and be able to say , " wow , i don 't know .
maybe i 'm wrong . " thank you .
thank you guys .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / juan _ enriquez _ wants _ to _ grow _ energy.html
juan enriquez challenges our definition of bioenergy . oil , coal , gas and other hydrocarbons are not chemical but biological products , based on plant matter -- and thus , growable . our whole approach to fuel , he argues , needs to change .
biodiversity , biotech , business , energy , science , technology , tedbooks
193
juan enriquez wants to grow energy
what is bioenergy ? bioenergy is not ethanol .
bioenergy isn 't global warming . bioenergy is something which seems counterintuitive . bioenergy is oil . it 's gas . it 's coal . and part of building that bridge to the future , to the point where we can actually see the oceans in a rational way , or put up these geo-spatial orbits that will twirl or do microwaves or stuff , is going to depend on how we understand bioenergy and manage it . and to do that , you really have to look first at agriculture .
so we 've been planting stuff for 11,000 years . and in the measure that we plant stuff , what we learn from agriculture is you 've got to deal with pests , you 've got to deal with all types of awful things , you 've got to cultivate stuff . in the measure that you learn how to use water to cultivate , then you 're going to be able to spread beyond the nile .
you 're going to be able to power stuff , so irrigation makes a difference .
irrigation starts to make you be allowed to plant stuff where you want it , as opposed to where the rivers flood . you start getting this organic agriculture ; you start putting machinery onto this stuff . machinery , with a whole bunch of water , leads to very large-scale agriculture .
you put together machines and water , and you get landscapes that look like this . and then you get sales that look like this . it 's brute force . so what you 've been doing in agriculture is you start out with something that 's a reasonably natural system . you start taming that natural system . you put a lot of force behind that natural system . you put a whole bunch of pesticides and herbicides -- -- behind that natural system , and you end up with systems that look like this .
and it 's all brute force . and that 's the way we 've been approaching energy . so the lesson in agriculture is that you can actually change the system that 's based on brute force as you start merging that system and learning that system and actually applying biology . and you move from a discipline of engineering , you move from a discipline of chemistry , into a discipline of biology . and probably one of the most important human beings on the planet is this guy behind me .
this is a guy called norman borlaug . he won the nobel prize . he 's got the congressional medal of honor . he deserves all of this stuff . and he deserves this stuff because he probably has fed more people than any other human being alive because he researched how to put biology behind seeds . he did this in mexico . the reason why india and china no longer have these massive famines is because norman borlaug taught them how to grow grains in a more efficient way and launched the green revolution . that is something that a lot of people have criticized . but of course , those are people who don 't realize that china and india , instead of having huge amounts of starving people , are exporting grains .
and the irony of this particular system is the place where he did the research , which was mexico , didn 't adopt this technology , ignored this technology , talked about why this technology should be thought about , but not really applied .
and mexico remains one of the largest grain importers on the planet because it doesn 't apply technology that was discovered in mexico . and in fact , hasn 't recognized this man , to the point where there aren 't statues of this man all over mexico . there are in china and india . and the
institute that this guy ran has now moved to india . that is the difference between adopting technologies and discussing technologies .
now , it 's not just that this guy fed a huge amount of people in the world . it 's that this is the net effect in terms of what technology does , if you understand biology .
what happened in agriculture ? well , if you take agriculture over a century , agriculture in about 1900 would have been recognizable to somebody planting a thousand years earlier . yeah , the plows look different . the machines were tractors or stuff instead of mules , but the farmer would have understood : this is what the guy 's doing , this is why he 's doing it , this is where he 's going . what really started to change in agriculture is when you started moving from this brute force engineering and chemistry into biology , and that 's where you get your productivity increases . and as you do that stuff , here 's what happens to productivity .
basically , you go from 250 hours to produce 100 bushels , to 40 , to 15 , to five . agricultural labor productivity increased seven times , 1950 to 2000 , whereas the rest of the economy increased about 2.5 times . this is an absolutely massive increase in how much is produced per person .
the effect of this , of course , is it 's not just amber waves of grain , it is mountains of stuff .
and 50 percent of the eu budget is going to subsidize agriculture from mountains of stuff that people have overproduced .
this would be a good outcome for energy . and of
course , by now , you 're probably saying to yourself , " self , i thought i came to a talk about energy and here 's this guy talking about biology . "
so where 's the link between these two things ?
one of the ironies of this whole system is we 're discussing what to do about a system that we don 't understand . we don 't even know what oil is . we
don 't know where oil comes from . i mean , literally , it 's still a source of debate what this black river of stuff is and where it comes
from . the best assumption , and one of the best guesses in this stuff , is that this stuff comes out of this stuff , that these things absorb sunlight , rot under pressure for millions of years , and you get these black rivers .
now , the interesting thing about that thesis -- if that thesis turns out to be true -- is that oil , and all hydrocarbons , turned out to be concentrated sunlight . and if you think of bioenergy , bioenergy isn 't ethanol . bioenergy is taking the sun , concentrating it in amoebas , concentrating it in plants , and maybe that 's why you get these rainbows .
and as you 're looking at this system , if hydrocarbons are concentrated sunlight , then bioenergy works in a different way . and we 've got to start thinking of oil and other hydrocarbons as part of these solar panels .
maybe that 's one of the reasons why if you fly over west texas , the types of wells that you 're beginning to see don 't look unlike those pictures of kansas and those irrigated plots .
this is how you farm oil . and as you think of farming oil and how oil has evolved , we started with this brute force approach . and then what did we learn ? then we learned we had to go bigger . and then what 'd we learn ? then we have to go even bigger . and we are getting really destructive as we 're going out and farming this bioenergy .
these are the athabasca tar sands , and there 's an enormous amount -- first of mining , the largest trucks in the world are working here , and then you 've got to pull out this black sludge , which is basically oil that doesn 't flow . it 's tied to the sand . and then you 've got to use a lot of steam to separate it , which only works at today 's oil prices .
coal . coal turns out to be virtually the same stuff . it is probably plants , except that these have been burned and crushed under pressure .
so you take something like this , you burn it , you put it under pressure , and likely as not , you get this . although , again , i stress : we don 't know .
which is curious as we debate all this stuff . but as you think of coal , this is what burned wheat kernels look like . not entirely unlike coal .
and of course , coalmines are very dangerous places because in some of these coalmines , you get gas . when that gas blows up , people die . so you 're producing a biogas out of coal in some mines , but not in others .
any place you see a differential , there 're some interesting questions . there 's some questions as to what you should be doing with this stuff . but again , coal . maybe the same stuff , maybe the same system , maybe bioenergy , and you 're applying exactly the same technology .
here 's your brute force approach . once you get through your brute force approach , then you just rip off whole mountaintops . and you end up with the single largest source of carbon emissions , which are coal-fired gas plants . that is probably not the best use of bioenergy .
as you think of what are the alternatives to this system -- it 's important to find alternatives because it turns out that the u.s. is dwindling in its petroleum reserves , but it is not dwindling in its coal reserves , nor is china . there are huge coal reserves that are sitting out there , and we 've got to start thinking of them as biological energy , because if we keep treating them as chemical energy , or engineering energy , we 're going to be in deep doo-doo .
gas is a similar issue . gas is also a biological product . and as you think of gas , well , you 're familiar with gas . and here 's a different way of mining coal .
this is called coal bed methane . why is this picture interesting ? because if coal turns out to be concentrated plant life , the reason why you may get a differential in gas output between one mine and another -- the reason why one mine may blow up and another one may not blow up -- may be because there 's stuff eating that stuff and producing gas .
this is a well-known phenomenon . you eat certain things , you produce a lot of gas . it may turn out that biological processes in coalmines have the same process . if that is true , then one of the ways of getting the energy out of coal may not be to rip whole mountaintops off , and it may not be to burn coal . it may be to have stuff process that coal in a biological fashion as you did in agriculture .
that is what bioenergy is . it is not ethanol . it is not subsidies to a few companies . it is not importing corn into iowa because you 've built so many of these ethanol plants . it is beginning to understand the transition that occurred in agriculture , from brute force into biological force . and in the measure that you can do that , you can clean some stuff , and you can clean it pretty quickly .
we already have some indicators of productivity on
this stuff . ok , if you put steam into coal fields or petroleum fields that have been running for decades , you can get a really substantial increase , like an eight-fold increase , in your output . this is just the beginning stages of this stuff .
and as you think of biomaterials , this guy -- who did part of the sequencing of the human genome , who just doubled the databases of genes and proteins known on earth by sailing around the world -- has been thinking about how you structure this . and there 's a series of smart people thinking about this . and they 've been putting together companies like synthetic genomics , like , a cambria , like codon , and what those companies are trying to do is to think of , how do you apply biological principles to avoid brute force ?
think of it in the following terms . think of it as beginning to program stuff for specific purposes . think of the cell as a hardware . think of the genes as a software . and in the measure that you begin to think of life as code that is interchangeable , that can become energy , that can become food , that can become fiber , that can become human beings , that can become a whole series of things , then you 've got to shift your approach as to how you 're going to structure and deal and think about energy in a very different way .
what are the first principles of this stuff and where are we heading ? this is one of the gentle giants on the planet . he 's one of the nicest human beings you 've ever met . his name is hamilton smith . he won the nobel for figuring out how to cut genes -- something called restriction enzymes .
he was at hopkins when he did this , and he 's such a modest guy that the day he won , his mother called him and said , " i didn 't realize there was another ham smith at hopkins . do you know he just won the nobel ? " i mean , that was mom ,
but anyway , this guy is just a class act . you find him at the bench every single day , working on a pipette and building stuff . and one of the things this guy just built are these things .
what is this ? this is the first transplant of naked dna , where you take an entire dna operating system out of one cell , insert it into a different cell , and have that cell boot up as a separate species . that 's one month old . you will see stuff in the next month that will be just as important as this stuff .
and as you think about this stuff and what the implications of this are , we 're going to start not just converting ethanol from corn with very high subsidies . we 're going to start thinking about biology entering energy . it is very expensive to process this stuff , both in economic terms and in energy terms .
this is what accumulates in the tar sands of alberta . these are sulfur blocks . because as you separate that petroleum from the sand , and use an enormous amount of energy inside that vapor -- steam to separate this stuff -- you also have to separate out the sulfur . the difference between light crude and heavy crude -- well , it 's about 14 bucks a barrel . that 's why you 're building these pyramids of sulfur blocks . and by the way , the scale on these things is pretty large .
now , if you can take part of the energy content out of doing this , you reduce the system , and you really do start applying biological principles to energy . this has to be a bridge to the point where you can get to wind , to the point where you can get to solar , to the point where you can get to nuclear -- and hopefully you won 't build the next nuclear plant on a beautiful seashore next to an earthquake fault . just a thought .
but in the meantime , for the next decade at least , the name of the game is hydrocarbons . and be that oil , be that gas , be that coal , this is what we 're dealing with . and before i make this talk too long , here 's what 's happening in the current energy system .
86 percent of the energy we consume are hydrocarbons . that means 86 percent of the stuff we 're consuming are probably processed plants and amoebas and the rest of the stuff . and there 's a role in here for conservation . there 's a role in here for alternative stuff , but we 've also got to get that other portion right .
how we deal with that other portion is our bridge to the future . and as we think of this bridge to the future , one of the things you should ponder is : we are leaving about two-thirds of the oil today inside those wells . so we 're spending an enormous amount of money and leaving most of the energy down there . which , of course , requires more energy to go out and get energy . the ratios become idiotic by the time you get to ethanol . it may even be a one-to-one ratio on the energy input and the energy output . that is a stupid way of managing this system .
last point , last graph . one of the things that we 've got to do is to stabilize oil prices . this is what oil prices look like , ok ?
this is a very bad system because what happens is your hurdle rate gets set very low . people come up with really smart ideas for solar panels , or for wind , or for something else , and then guess what ?
the oil price goes through the floor . that company goes out of business , and then you can bring the oil price back up .
so if i had one closing and modest suggestion , let 's set a stable oil price in europe and the united states . how do you do that ? well , let 's put a tax on oil that is a non-revenue tax , and it basically says for the next 20 years , the price of oil will be -- whatever you want , 35 bucks , 40 bucks . if the opec price falls below that , we tax it . if the opec price goes above that , the tax goes away .
what does that do for entrepreneurs ? what does it do for companies ? it tells people , if you can produce energy for less than 35 bucks a barrel , or less than 40 bucks a barrel , or less than 50 bucks a barrel -- let 's debate it -- you will have a business . but let 's not put people through this cycle where it doesn 't pay to research because your company will go out of business as opec drives alternatives and keeps bioenergy from happening . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / chip _ conley _ measuring _ what _ makes _ life _ worthwhile.html
when the dotcom bubble burst , hotelier chip conley went in search of a business model based on happiness . in an old friendship with an employee and in the wisdom of a buddhist king , he learned that success comes from what you count .
buddhism , business , economics , happiness , money , psychology
889
chip conley : measuring what makes life worthwhile
i 'm going to talk about the simple truth in leadership in the 21st century .
in the 21st century , we need to actually look at -- and what i 'm actually going to encourage you to consider today -- is to go back to our school days when we learned how to count .
but i think it 's time for us to think about what we count .
because what we actually count truly counts .
let me start by telling you a little story .
this is van quach .
she came to this country in 1986 from vietnam .
she changed her name to vivian because she wanted to fit in here in america .
her first job was at an inner-city motel in san francisco as a maid .
i happened to buy that motel about three months after vivian started working there .
so vivian and i have been working together for 23 years .
with the youthful idealism of a 26-year-old , in 1987 , i started my company and i called it joie de vivre , a very impractical name , because i actually was looking to create joy of life .
and this first hotel that i bought , motel , was a pay-by-the-hour , no-tell motel in the inner-city of san francisco .
as i spent time with vivian , i saw that she had sort of a joie de vivre in how she did her work .
it made me question and curious : how could someone actually find joy in cleaning toilets for a living ?
so i spent time with vivian , and i saw that she didn 't find joy in cleaning toilets .
her job , her goal and her calling was not to become the world 's greatest toilet scrubber .
what counts for vivian was the emotional connection she created with her fellow employees and our guests .
and what gave her inspiration and meaning was the fact that she was taking care of people who were far away from home .
because vivian knew what it was like to be far away from home .
that very human lesson , more than 20 years ago , served me well during the last economic downturn we had .
in the wake of the dotcom crash and 9 / 11 , san francisco bay area hotels went through the largest percentage revenue drop in the history of american hotels .
we were the largest operator of hotels in the bay area , so we were particularly vulnerable .
but also back then , remember we stopped eating french fries in this country .
well , not exactly , of course not .
we started eating " freedom fries , "
rob dunbar : discovering ancient climates in oceans and ice
if you really want to understand the problem that we 're facing with the oceans , you have to think about the biology at the same time you think about the physics .
we can 't solve the problems unless we start studying the ocean in a very much more interdisciplinary way .
so i 'm going to demonstrate that through discussion of some of the climate change things that are going on in the ocean .
we 'll look at sea level rise .
we 'll look at ocean warming .
and then the last thing on the list there , ocean acidification -- if you were to ask me , you know , " what do you worry about the most ?
what frightens you ? "
for me , it 's ocean acidification .
and this has come onto the stage pretty recently .
so i will spend a little time at the end .
i was in copenhagen in december like a number of you in this room .
and i think we all found it , simultaneously , an eye-opening and a very frustrating experience .
i sat in this large negotiation hall , at one point , for three or four hours , without hearing the word " oceans " one time .
it really wasn 't on the radar screen .
the nations that brought it up when we had the speeches of the national leaders -- it tended to be the leaders of the small island states , the low-lying island states .
and by this weird quirk of alphabetical order of the nations , a lot of the low-lying states , like kiribati and nauru , they were seated at the very end of these immensely long rows .
you know , they were marginalized in the negotiation room .
one of the problems is coming up with the right target .
it 's not clear what the target should be .
and how can you figure out how to fix something if you don 't have a clear target ?
now , you 've heard about " two degrees " : that we should limit temperature rise to no more than two degrees .
but there 's not a lot of science behind that number .
we 've also talked about concentrations of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere .
should it be 450 ? should it be 400 ?
there 's not a lot of science behind that one either .
most of the science that is behind these numbers , these potential targets , is based on studies on land .
and i would say , for the people that work in the ocean and think about what the targets should be , we would argue that they must be much lower .
you know , from an oceanic perspective , 450 is way too high .
now there 's compelling evidence that it really needs to be 350 .
we are , right now , at 390 parts per million of co2 in the atmosphere .
we 're not going to put the brakes on in time to stop at 450 , so we 've got to accept we 're going to do an overshoot , and the discussion as we go forward has to focus on how far the overshoot goes and what 's the pathway back to 350 .
now , why is this so complicated ?
why don 't we know some of these things a little bit better ?
well , the problem is that we 've got very complicated forces in the climate system .
there 's all kinds of natural causes of climate change .
there 's air-sea interactions .
here in galapagos , we 're affected by el ninos and la nina .
but the entire planet warms up when there 's a big el nino .
volcanoes eject aerosols into the atmosphere .
that changes our climate .
the ocean contains most of the exchangeable heat on the planet .
so anything that influences how ocean surface waters mix with the deep water changes the ocean of the planet .
and we know the solar output 's not constant through time .
so those are all natural causes of climate change .
and then we have the human-induced causes of climate change as well .
we 're changing the characteristics of the surface of the land , the reflectivity .
we inject our own aerosols into the atmosphere , and we have trace gases , and not just carbon dioxide -- it 's methane , ozone , oxides of sulfur and nitrogen .
so here 's the thing . it sounds like a simple question .
is co2 produced by man 's activities causing the planet to warm up ?
but to answer that question , to make a clear attribution to carbon dioxide , you have to know something about all of these other agents of change .
but the fact is we do know a lot about all of those things .
you know , thousands of scientists have been working on understanding all of these man-made causes and the natural causes .
and we 've got it worked out , and we can say , " yes , co2 is causing the planet to warm up now . "
now , we have many ways to study natural variability .
i 'll show you a few examples of this now .
this is the ship that i spent the last three months on in the antarctic .
it 's a scientific drilling vessel .
we go out for months at a time and drill into the sea bed to recover sediments that tell us stories of climate change , right .
like one of the ways to understand our greenhouse future is to drill down in time to the last period where we had co2 double what it is today .
and so that 's what we 've done with this ship .
this was -- this is south of the antarctic circle .
it looks downright tropical there .
one day where we had calm seas and sun , which was the reason i could get off the ship .
most of the time it looked like this .
we had a waves up to 50 ft. and winds averaging about 40 knots for most of the voyage and up to 70 or 80 knots .
so that trip just ended , and i can 't show you too many results from that right now , but we 'll go back one more year , to another drilling expedition i 've been involved in .
this was led by ross powell and tim naish .
it 's the andrill project .
and we made the very first bore hole through the largest floating ice shelf on the planet .
this is a crazy thing , this big drill rig wrapped in a blanket to keep everybody warm , drilling at temperatures of minus 40 .
and we drilled in the ross sea .
that 's the ross sea ice shelf on the right there .
so , this huge floating ice shelf the size of alaska comes from west antarctica .
now , west antarctica is the part of the continent where the ice is grounded on sea floor as much as 2,000 meters deep .
so that ice sheet is partly floating , and it 's exposed to the ocean , to the ocean heat .
this is the part of antarctica that we worry about .
because it 's partly floating , you can imagine , is sea level rises a little bit , the ice lifts off the bed , and then it can break off and float north .
when that ice melts , sea level rises by six meters .
so we drill back in time to see how often that 's happened , and exactly how fast that ice can melt .
here 's the cartoon on the left there .
we drilled through a hundred meters of floating ice shelf then through 900 meters of water and then 1,300 meters into the sea floor .
so it 's the deepest geological bore hole ever drilled .
it took about 10 years to put this project together .
and here 's what we found .
now , there 's 40 scientists working on this project , and people are doing all kinds of really complicated and expensive analyses .
but it turns out , you know , the thing that told the best story was this simple visual description .
you know , we saw this in the core samples as they came up .
we saw these alternations between sediments that look like this -- there 's gravel and cobbles in there and a bunch of sand .
that 's the kind of material in the deep sea .
it can only get there if it 's carried out by ice .
so we know there 's an ice shelf overhead .
and that alternates with a sediment that looks like this .
this is absolutely beautiful stuff .
this sediment is 100 percent made up of the shells of microscopic plants .
and these plants need sunlight , so we know when we find that sediment there 's no ice overhead .
and we saw about 35 alternations between open water and ice-covered water , between gravels and these plant sediments .
so what that means is , what it tells us is that the ross sea region , this ice shelf , melted back and formed anew about 35 times .
and this is in the past four million years .
this was completely unexpected .
nobody imagined that the west antarctic ice sheet was this dynamic .
in fact , the lore for many years has been , " the ice formed many tens of millions of years ago , and it 's been there ever since . "
and now we know that in our recent past it melted back and formed again , and sea level went up and down , six meters at a time .
what caused it ?
well , we 're pretty sure that it 's very small changes in the amount of sunlight reaching antarctica , just caused by natural changes in the orbit of the earth .
but here 's the key thing : you know , the other thing we found out is that the ice sheet passed a threshold , that the planet warmed up enough -- and the number 's about one degree to one and a half degrees centigrade -- the planet warmed up enough that it became ...
that ice sheet became very dynamic and was very easily melted .
and you know what ?
we 've actually changed the temperature in the last century just the right amount .
so many of us are convinced now that west antarctica , the west antarctic ice sheet , is starting to melt .
we do expect to see a sea-level rise on the order of one to two meters by the end of this century .
and it could be larger than that .
this is a serious consequence for nations like kiribati , you know , where the average elevation is about a little over a meter above sea level .
okay , the second story takes place here in galapagos .
this is a bleached coral , coral that died during the 1982- ' 83 el nino .
this is from champion island .
it 's about a meter tall pavona clavus colony .
and it 's covered with algae . that 's what happens .
when these things die , immediately , organisms come in and encrust and live on that dead surface .
and so , when a coral colony is killed by an el nino event , it leaves this indelible record .
you can go then and study corals and figure out how often do you see this .
so one of the things thought of in the ' 80s was to go back and take cores of coral heads throughout the galapagos and find out how often was there a devastating event .
and just so you know , 1982- ' 83 , that el nino killed 95 percent of all the corals here in galapagos .
then there was similar mortality in ' 97- ' 98 .
and what we found after drilling back in time two to 400 years was that these were unique events .
we saw no other mass mortality events .
so these events in our recent past really are unique .
so they 're either just truly monster el ninos , or they 're just very strong el ninos that occurred against a backdrop of global warming .
either case , it 's bad news for the corals of the galapagos islands .
here 's how we sample the corals .
this is actually easter island . look at this monster .
this coral is eight meters tall , right .
and it been growing for about 600 years .
now , sylvia earle turned me on to this exact same coral .
and she was diving here with john lauret -- i think it was 1994 -- and collected a little nugget and sent it to me .
and we started working on it , and we figured out we could tell the temperature of the ancient ocean from analyzing a coral like this .
so we have a diamond drill .
we 're not killing the colony ; we 're taking a small core sample out of the top .
the core comes up as these cylindrical tubes of limestone .
and that material then we take back to the lab and analyze it .
you can see some of the coral cores there on the right .
so we 've done that all over the eastern pacific .
we 're starting to do it in the western pacific as well .
i 'll take you back here to the galapagos islands .
and we 've been working at this fascinating uplift here in urbina bay .
that the place where , during an earthquake in 1954 , this marine terrace was lifted up out of the ocean very quickly , and it was lifted up about six to seven meters .
and so now you can walk through a coral reef without getting wet .
if you go on the ground there , it looks like this , and this is the grandaddy coral .
it 's 11 meters in diameter , and we know that it started growing in the year 1584 .
imagine that .
and that coral was growing happily in those shallow waters , until 1954 , when the earthquake happened .
now the reason we know it 's 1584 is that these corals have growth bands .
when you cut them , slice those cores in half and x-ray them , you see these light and dark bands .
each one of those is a year .
we know these corals grow about a centimeter and a half a year .
and we just count on down to the bottom .
then their other attribute is that they have this great chemistry .
we can analyze the carbonate that makes up the coral , and there 's a whole bunch of things we can do .
but in this case , we measured the different isotopes of oxygen .
their ratio tells us the water temperature .
in this example here , we had monitored this reef in galapagos with temperature recorders , so we know the temperature of the water the coral 's growing in .
then after we harvest a coral , we measure this ratio , and now you can see , those curves match perfectly .
in this case , at these islands , you know , corals are instrumental-quality recorders of change in the water .
and of course , our thermometers only take us back 50 years or so here .
the coral can take us back hundreds and thousands of years .
so , what we do : we 've merged a lot of different data sets .
it 's not just my group ; there 's maybe 30 groups worldwide doing this .
but we get these instrumental- and near-instrumental-quality records of temperature change that go back hundreds of years , and we put them together .
here 's a synthetic diagram .
there 's a whole family of curves here .
but what 's happening : we 're looking at the last thousand years of temperature on the planet .
and there 's five or six different compilations there , but each one of those compilations reflects input from hundreds of these kinds of records from corals .
we do similar things with ice cores .
we work with tree rings .
and that 's how we discover what is truly natural and how different is the last century , right ?
and i chose this one because it 's complicated and messy looking , right .
this is as messy as it gets .
you can see there 's some signals there .
some of the records show lower temperatures than others .
some of them show greater variability .
but they all tell us what the natural variability is .
some of them are from the northern hemisphere ; some are from the entire globe .
but here 's what we can say : what 's natural in the last thousand years is that the planet was cooling down .
it was cooling down until about 1900 or so .
and there is natural variability caused by the sun , caused by el ninos .
a century-scale , decadal-scale variability , and we know the magnitude ; it 's about two-tenths to four-tenths of a degree centigrade .
but then at the very end is where we have the instrumental record in black .
and there 's the temperature up there in 2009 .
you know , we 've warmed the globe about a degree centigrade in the last century , and there 's nothing in the natural part of that record that resembles what we 've seen in the last century .
you know , that 's the strength of our argument , that we are doing something that 's truly different .
so i 'll close with a short discussion of ocean acidification .
i like it as a component of global change to talk about , because , even if you are a hard-bitten global warming skeptic , and i talk to that community fairly often , you cannot deny the simple physics of co2 dissolving in the ocean .
you know , we 're pumping out lots of co2 into the atmosphere , from fossil fuels , from cement production .
right now , about a third of that carbon dioxide is dissolving straight into the sea , right ?
and as it does so , it makes the ocean more acidic .
so , you cannot argue with that .
that is what 's happening right now , and it 's a very different issue than the global warming issue .
it has many consequences .
there 's consequences for carbonate organisms .
there are many organisms that build their shells out of calcium carbonate -- plants and animals both .
the main framework material of coral reefs is calcium carbonate .
that material is more soluble in acidic fluid .
so one of the things we 're seeing is organisms are having to spend more metabolic energy to build and maintain their shells .
at some point , as this transience , as this co2 uptake in the ocean continues , that material 's actually going to start to dissolve .
and on coral reefs , where some of the main framework organisms disappear , we will see a major loss of marine biodiversity .
but it 's not just the carbonate producers that are affected .
there 's many physiological processes that are influenced by the acidity of the ocean .
so many reactions involving enzymes and proteins are sensitive to the acid content of the ocean .
so , all of these things -- greater metabolic demands , reduced reproductive success , changes in respiration and metabolism .
you know , these are things that we have good physiological reasons to expect to see stressed caused by this transience .
so we figured out some pretty interesting ways to track co2 levels in the atmosphere , going back millions of years .
we used to do it just with ice cores , but in this case , we 're going back 20 million years .
and we take samples of the sediment , and it tells us the co2 level of the ocean , and therefore the co2 level of the atmosphere .
and here 's the thing : you have to go back about 15 million years to find a time when co2 levels were about what they are today .
you have to go back about 30 million years to find a time when co2 levels were double what they are today .
now , what that means is that all of the organisms that live in the sea have evolved in this chemostatted ocean , with co2 levels lower than they are today .
that 's the reason that they 're not able to respond or adapt to this rapid acidification that 's going on right now .
so , charlie veron came up with this statement last year : " the prospect of ocean acidification may well be the most serious of all of the predicted outcomes of anthropogenic co2 release . "
and i think that may very well be true , so i 'll close with this .
you know , we do need the protected areas , absolutely , but for the sake of the oceans , we have to cap or limit co2 emissions as soon as possible .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jehane _ noujaim _ inspires _ a _ global _ day _ of _ film.html
jehane noujaim unveils her 2006 ted prize wish : to bring the world together for one day a year through the power of film .
featured , ted prize , arts , culture , entertainment , film , global issues , peace , social change , storytelling
55
jehane noujaim wishes for a global day of film
i can 't help but with this wish to think about when you 're a little kid and you -- all your friends ask you if a genie could give you one wish in the world , what would it be ?
and i always answered , " well , i 'd want the wish to have the wisdom to know exactly what to wish for . "
well , then you 'd be screwed because you 'd know what to wish for and you 'd used up your wish .
and now , since we only have one wish -- unlike last year they had three wishes -- i 'm not going to wish for that .
so let 's get to what i would like , which is world peace .
and i know what you 're thinking .
you 're thinking , the poor girl up there -- she thinks she 's at a beauty pageant . she 's not . she 's at the ted prize .
but i really do think it makes sense , and i think that the first step to world peace is for people to meet each other .
i 've met a lot of different people over the years and i 've filmed some of them -- from a dotcom executive in new york that wanted to take over the world to a military press officer in qatar that would rather not take over the world .
if you 've seen the film " control room " that was sent out , you 'd understand a little bit why . thank you .
wow ! some of you watched it .
that 's great . that 's great .
so basically what i 'd like to talk about today is a way for people to travel , to meet people in a different way than -- because you can 't travel all over the world at the same time .
and a long time ago -- well , about 40 years ago -- my mom had an exchange student .
and i 'm going to show you slides of the exchange student .
this is donna .
this is donna at the statue of liberty .
this is my mother and aunt teaching donna how to ride a bike .
this is donna eating ice cream .
and this is donna teaching my aunt how to do a filipino dance .
now i really think as the world is getting smaller , it becomes more and more important that we learn each other 's dance moves , that we meet each other , we get to know each other , we are able to figure out a way to cross borders , to understand each other , to understand people 's hopes and dreams , what makes them laugh and cry .
and i know that we can 't all do exchange programs , and i can 't force everybody to travel .
i 've already talked about that to chris and amy , and they said that there 's a problem with this .
you can 't force people of free will , and i totally support that .
so we 're not forcing people to travel .
but i 'd like to talk about another way to travel that doesn 't require a ship or an airplane , and just requires a movie camera , a projector and a screen .
and that 's what i 'm going to talk to you about today .
i was asked that i speak a little bit about where i personally come from , and cameron , i don 't know how you managed to get out of that one , but i think that building bridges is important to me because of where i come from .
i 'm the daughter of an american mother and an egyptian-lebanese-syrian father .
so i 'm the living product of two cultures coming together .
no pun intended .
and i 've also been called -- as an egyptian-lebanese-syrian american with a persian name -- the " middle east peace crisis . "
so maybe me starting to take pictures was some kind of way to bring both sides of my family together , a way to take the worlds with me , a way to tell stories visually .
it all kind of started that way , but i think that i really realized the power of the image when i first went to the garbage-collecting village in egypt ,
when i was about 16 . my mother took me there .
she 's somebody that believes strongly in community service and decided that this was something that i needed to do and so i went there and i met some amazing women there .
there was a center there where they were teaching people how to read and write and get vaccinations against the many diseases you can get from sorting through garbage .
and i began to start teaching there .
i taught english , and i met some incredible women there .
i met people that live seven people to a room , barely can afford their evening meal , yet live with this strength of spirit and sense of humor
and just incredible qualities .
i got drawn into this community and i began to take pictures there .
i took pictures of weddings and older family members , things that they wanted memories of .
about two years after i started taking these pictures , the un conference on population and development asked me to show them at the conference .
so i was 18 ; i was very excited .
it was my first exhibit of photographs and they were all put up there , and after about two days , they all came down except for three .
people were very upset , very angry that i was showing these dirty sides of cairo , and why didn 't i cut the dead donkey out of the frame ?
and as i sat there , i got very depressed . i looked at this big empty wall with three lonely photographs that were , you know , very pretty photographs and i was like , i failed at this .
but i was looking at this intense emotion and intense feeling that had come out of people just seeing these photographs .
i mean , here i was , this 18-year-old pipsqueak that nobody listened to , and all of a sudden i put these photographs on the wall and there were arguments , and they had to be taken down .
and i just saw the power of the image .
and it was incredible .
and i think the most important reaction that i saw there was actually people that would never have gone to the garbage village themselves , that would never have seen that the human spirit could thrive in such difficult circumstances .
and i think it was at that point that i decided that i wanted to use photography and film to somehow bridge gaps , to bridge cultures , bring people together , cross borders .
and so that 's what really kind of started me off .
did a stint at mtv , made a film called " startup.com , " and i 've done a couple of music films --
but in 2003 , when the war in iraq was about to start , it was a very surreal feeling for me because before the war started , there was kind of this media war that was going on .
and i was watching television in new york and there seemed to be just one point of view that was coming across , and the coverage went from the u.s. state department to embedded troops and what was coming across on the news was that there was going to be this clean war and precision bombings , and the iraqis would be greeting the americans as liberators and throwing flowers at their feet in the streets of baghdad .
and i knew that there was a completely other story that was taking place in the middle east where my parents were .
i knew that there was a completely other story being told , and i was thinking , how are people supposed to communicate with each other when they 're getting completely different messages and nobody knows what the other 's being told ?
how are people supposed to have any kind of common understanding
or know how to move together into the future ?
so i knew that i had to go there .
i just wanted to be in the center .
i had no plan . i had no funding .
i didn 't even have a camera at the time .
i had somebody bring it there because i wanted to get access to al jazeera , george bush 's favorite channel and a place which i was very curious about because it 's disliked by many governments across the arab world and also called the mouthpiece of osama bin laden by some people in the u.s. government .
so i was thinking , you know , this station that 's hated by so many people has to be doing something right .
i 've got to go see what this is all about .
and i also wanted to go see central command , which was 10 minutes away , and that way i could get access to how this news was being created on the arab side reaching the arab world , and on the u.s. and western side reaching the u.s .
and when i went there and sat there , and met these people that were in the center of it and sat with these characters , i met some surprising , very complex people .
and i 'd like to share with you a little bit of that experience of when you sit with somebody and you film them , and you listen to them , and you allow them more than a five-second sound bite , the amazing complexity of people emerge .
sameer khader : business as usual .
iraq , and then iraq , and then iraq .
but between us , if i 'm offered a job with fox , i 'll take it .
to change the arab nightmare into the american dream .
i still have that dream . maybe i will never be able to do it .
but i have plans for my children .
when they finish their high school i will send them to america to study there .
i will pay for their study .
and they will stay there .
josh rushing : the night they showed the pows and the dead soldiers -- al jazeera showed them -- it was powerful because america doesn 't show those kinds of images .
most of the news in america won 't show really gory images and this showed american soldiers in uniform strewn about a floor , a cold tile floor .
and it was revolting . it was absolutely revolting .
it made me sick to my stomach .
and then what hit me was , the night before , there had been some kind of bombing in basra , and al jazeera had shown images of the people .
and they were equally if not more horrifying -- the images were .
and i remember having seen it in the al jazeera office and thought to myself , " wow , that 's gross .
that 's bad . "
and then going away , and probably eating dinner or something .
and it didn 't affect me as much .
so -- the impact it had on me , me realizing that i just saw people on the other side , and those people in the al jazeera office must have felt the way i was feeling that night .
and it upset me on a profound level that i wasn 't bothered as much the night before .
it makes me hate war .
but it doesn 't make me believe that we 're in world that can live without war yet .
jehane noujaim : i was overwhelmed by the response of the film , for we didn 't know whether it would be able to get out there .
we had no funding for it .
we were incredibly lucky that it got picked up , and when we showed the film in both the united states and the arab world we had such incredible reactions . it was amazing to see how people were moved by this film .
in the arab world -- and it 's not really by the film ; it 's by the characters .
i mean , josh rushing was this incredibly complex person who was thinking about things .
and when i showed the film in the middle east , people wanted to meet josh .
he kind of redefined us as an american population .
people started to , you know , ask me , where is this guy now ?
al jazeera offered him a job .
and sameer , on the other hand , was also quite an interesting character for the arab world to see , because it brought out the complexities of this love / hate relationship that the arab world has with the west .
in the united states , i was blown away by the motivations , the positive motivations of the american people when they 'd see this film .
you know , we 're criticized abroad for believing we 're the saviors of the world in some way , but the flip side of it is that actually , when people do see what is happening abroad and people 's reactions to some of our policy abroad , we feel this power that we need to -- we feel like we have to get the power to change things .
and i saw this with audiences . this woman came up to me after the screening and said , " you know , i know this is crazy . i saw the bombs being loaded on the planes ; i saw the military going out to war .
but you don 't understand people 's anger towards us until you see the people in the hospitals and the victims of the war , and how do we get out of this bubble ?
how do we understand what the other person is thinking ? "
now , i don 't know whether a film can change the world , but i know that it starts -- i know the power of it -- i know that it starts people thinking about how to change the world .
now , i 'm not a philosopher , so i feel like i shouldn 't go into great depth on this but let film speak for itself and take you to this other world .
because i believe that film has the ability to take you across borders .
i 'd like you to just sit back and experience for a couple of minutes being taken into another world .
and these couple clips take you inside of two of the most difficult conflicts that we are faced with today .
man : as long as there is injustice , someone must make a sacrifice !
woman : that 's no sacrifice , that 's revenge !
if you kill , there 's no difference between victim and occupier .
man : if we had airplanes , we wouldn 't need martyrs , that 's the difference .
woman : the difference is that the israeli military is still stronger .
man : then let us be equal in death .
we still have paradise .
woman : there is no paradise ! it only exists in your head !
man : god forbid !
may god forgive you .
if you were not abu azzam 's daughter ... anyway , i 'd rather have paradise in my head than live in this hell !
in this life , we 're dead anyway .
one only chooses bitterness when the alternative is even bitterer .
woman : and what about us ? the ones who remain ?
will we win that way ?
don 't you see what you 're doing is destroying us ?
and that you give israel an alibi to carry on ?
man : so with no alibi , israel will stop ?
woman : perhaps . we have to turn it into a moral war .
man : how , if israel has no morals ?
woman : be careful !
zvika : my wife ayelet called me and said , " there was a suicide bombing in tel aviv . "
ayelet : what do you know about the casualties ?
we 're looking for three girls .
zvika : we have no information .
ayelet : one is wounded here , but we haven 't heard from the other three .
zvika : i said , " ok , that 's bat-chen , that 's my daughter .
are you sure she is dead ? "
they said yes .
george : on that day , at around 6 : 30 i was driving with my wife and daughters to the supermarket .
when we got to here ,
we saw three israeli military jeeps parked on the side of the road .
when we passed by the first jeep , they opened fire on us .
and my 12-year-old daughter christine was killed in the shooting .
i am the headmaster for all parts .
george : but there is a teacher that is in charge ?
tzvika : yes , i have assistants .
i deal with children all the time .
george : at first , i thought it was a strange idea .
but after thinking logically about it , i didn 't find any reason why not to meet them and let them know of our suffering .
george : there were many things that touched me .
we see that there are palestinians who suffered a lot , who lost children , and still believe in the peace process and in reconciliation .
if we who lost what is most precious can talk to each other , and look forward to a better future , then everyone else must do so , too .
man : song is something that we communicated with people who otherwise would not have understood where we 're coming from .
you could give them a long political speech they would still not understand .
but i tell you , when you finish that song , people will be like , " damn , i know where you niggaz are coming from .
i know where you guys are coming from . death unto apartheid ! "
narrator : it 's about the liberation struggle . it 's about those children who took to the streets , fighting , screaming , " free nelson mandela ! "
it 's about those unions who put down their tools and demanded freedom .
yes . yes !
freedom !
jehane noujaim : i think everybody 's had that feeling of sitting in a theater , in a dark room , with other strangers , watching a very powerful film , and they felt that feeling of transformation .
and
what i 'd like to talk about is how can we use that feeling to actually create a movement through film ?
i 've been listening to the talks in some of the conference , and robert wright said yesterday that if we have an appreciation for another person 's humanity , then they will have an appreciation for ours .
and that 's what this is about .
it 's about connecting people through film , getting these independent voices out there .
now josh rushing actually ended up leaving the military and taking a job with al jazeera , so his feeling is that he 's on al jazeera international because he feels like he can actually use media to bridge the gap between east and west .
and that 's an amazing thing .
but i 've been trying to think about ways to give power to these independent voices , to give power to the filmmakers , to give power to people who are trying to use film for change .
and there are incredible organizations that are out there doing this already .
there 's witness , that you heard from earlier .
there 's just vision , that are working with palestinians and israelis who are working together for peace , and documenting that process and getting interviews out there and using this film to take to congress to show that it 's a powerful tool to show that this is a woman who 's had her daughter killed in an attack , and she believes that there are peaceful ways to solve this .
there 's working films and there 's current tv , which is an incredible platform for people around the world to be able to put their -- yes , it 's amazing .
i watched it and i 'm just -- i 'm blown away by it and its potential to bring voices from around the world , independent voices from around the world , and create a truly democratic , global television .
so what can we do to create a platform for these organizations , to create some momentum , to get everybody in the world involved in this movement ?
i 'd like for us to imagine for a second -- imagine a day when you have everyone coming together from around the world .
you have towns and villages and theaters all from around the world getting together , and sitting in the dark , and sharing a communal experience of watching a film , or a couple of films , together .
watching a film which maybe highlights a character that is fighting to live , or just a character that defies stereotypes , makes a joke , sings a song .
comedies , documentaries , shorts .
this amazing power can be used to change people and to bond people together , to cross borders and have people feel like they 're having a communal experience .
so if you imagine this day when all around the world you have theaters from around the world and places where we project films .
if you imagine from -- projecting from times square to tahir square in cairo , the same film in ramallah , the same film in jerusalem .
you know , we 've been talking to a friend of mine about using the side of the great pyramid and the great wall of china .
it 's endless what you can imagine , in terms of where you can project films and where you can have this communal experience .
and i believe that this one day , if we can create it , this one day can create momentum for all of these independent voices .
there isn 't an organization which is connecting the independent voices of the world to get out there , and yet i 'm hearing throughout this conference that the biggest danger in our future is [ lack of ] understanding the other and having mutual respect for the other and crossing borders .
and if film can do that , and if we can get all of these different locations in the world to watch these films together , this could be an incredible day .
so we 've already made a partnership actually , set up through somebody from the ted community , john camen , introduced me to steven apkon , from the jacob burns film center .
and we started calling up everybody .
and in the last week , there have been so many people that have responded to us from as close as palo alto to mongolia and to india .
there are people that want to be a part of this global day of film , to be able to provide a platform for independent voices and independent films to get out there .
now , we 've thought about a name for this day and i 'd like to share this with you .
now , the most amazing part of this whole process has been sharing ideas and wishes , and so i invite you to give brainstorms onto how does this day echo into the future ?
how do we use technology to make this day echo into the future , so that we can build community and have these communities working together , through the internet ?
there was a time , many , many years ago , when all of the continents were stuck together .
and we called that landmass pangea .
so what we 'd like to call this day of film is pangea cinema day .
and if you just imagine that all of these people in these towns would be watching , then i think that we can actually really make a movement towards people understanding each other better .
i know that it 's very intangible , touching people 's hearts and souls , but the only way that i know how to do it , the only way that i know how to reach out to somebody 's heart and soul all across the world is by showing them a film .
and i know that there are independent filmmakers and films out there that can really make this happen .
and that 's my wish .
so i guess i 'm supposed to give you my one-sentence wish , but we 're way out of time .
chris anderson : that is an incredible wish .
pangea cinema -- the day the world comes together .
jn : it 's more tangible than world peace , and it 's certainly more immediate .
but it would be the day that the world comes together through film , the power of film .
ca : ladies and gentlemen , jehane noujaim .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / brian _ greene _ on _ string _ theory.html
physicist brian greene explains superstring theory , the idea that minscule strands of energy vibrating in 11 dimensions create every particle and force in the universe .
physics , science , universe
251
brian greene on string theory
in the year 1919 , a virtually unknown german mathematician , named theodor kaluza suggested a very bold and , in some ways , a very bizarre idea . he proposed that our universe might actually have more than the three dimensions that we are all aware of . that is in addition to left , right , back , forth and up , down , kaluza proposed that there might be additional dimensions of space that for some reason we don 't yet see . now , when someone makes a bold and bizarre idea , sometimes that 's all it is -- bold and bizarre , but it has nothing to do with the world around us . this particular idea , however -- although we don 't yet know whether it 's right or wrong , and at the end i 'll discuss experiments which , in the next few years , may tell us whether it 's right or wrong -- this idea has had a major impact on physics in the last century and continues to inform a lot of cutting-edge research .
so , i 'd like to tell you something about the story of these extra dimensions . so where do we go ?
to begin we need a little bit of back story . go to 1907 .
this is a year when einstein is basking in the glow of having discovered the special theory of relativity and decides to take on a new project , to try to understand fully the grand , pervasive force of gravity . and in that moment , there are many people around who thought that that project had already been resolved .
newton had given the world a theory of gravity in the late 1600s that works well , describes the motion of planets , the motion of the moon and so forth , the motion of apocryphal of apples falling from trees , hitting people on the head . all of that could be described using newton 's work . but einstein realized that newton had left something out of the story , because even newton had written that although he understood how to calculate the effect of gravity , he 'd been unable to figure out how it really works . how is it that the sun , 93 million miles away , [ that ] somehow it affects the motion of the earth ?
how does the sun reach out across empty inert space and exert influence ?
and that is a task to which einstein set himself -- to figure out how gravity works .
and let me show you what it is that he found . so einstein found that the medium that transmits gravity is space itself . the idea goes like this : imagine space is a substrate of all there is . einstein said space is nice and flat , if there 's no matter present .
but if there is matter in the environment , such as the sun , it causes the fabric of space to warp , to curve .
and that communicates the force of gravity .
even the earth warps space around it . now look at the moon . the moon is kept in orbit , according to these ideas , because it rolls along a valley in the curved environment that the sun and the moon and the earth can all create by virtue of their presence . we go to a full-frame view of this . the earth itself is kept in orbit because it rolls along a valley in the environment that 's curved because of the sun 's presence . that is this new idea about how gravity actually works . now , this idea was tested in 1919 through astronomical observations . it really works . it describes the data .
and this gained einstein prominence around the world . and that is what got kaluza thinking . he , like einstein , was in search of what we call a unified theory . that 's one theory that might be able to describe all of nature 's forces from one set of ideas , one set of principles , one master equation , if you will .
so kaluza said to himself , einstein has been able to describe gravity in terms of warps and curves in space -- in fact , space and time , to be more precise .
maybe i can play the same game with the other known force , which was , at that time , known as the electromagnetic force --
we know of others today , but at that time that was the only other one people were thinking about .
you know , the force responsible for electricity and magnetic attraction and so forth . so kaluza says , maybe i can play the same game and describe electromagnetic force in terms of warps and curves . that raised a question : warps and curves in what ?
einstein had already used up space and time , warps and curves , to describe gravity . there didn 't seem to be anything else to warp or curve . so kaluza said , well , maybe there are more dimensions of space . he said , if i want to describe one more force , maybe i need one more dimension . so he imagined that the world had four dimensions of space , not three , and imagined that electromagnetism was warps and curves in that fourth dimension . now here 's the thing : when he wrote down the equations describing warps and curves in a universe with four space dimensions , not three , he found the old equations that einstein had already derived in three dimensions -- those were for gravity -- but he found one more equation because of the one more dimension .
and when he looked at that equation ,
it was none other than the equation that scientists had long known to describe the electromagnetic force . amazing -- it just popped out .
he was so excited by this realization that he ran around his house screaming , " victory ! " --
that he had found the unified theory .
now clearly , kaluza was a man who took theory very seriously . he , in fact --
there is a story that when he wanted to learn how to swim , he read a book , a treatise on swimming --
-- then dove into the ocean . this is a man who would risk his life on theory . now , but for those of us who are a little bit more practically minded , two questions immediately arise from his observation .
number one : if there are more dimensions in space , where are they ?
we don 't seem to see them .
and number two : does this theory really work in detail , when you try to apply it to the world around us ?
now , the first question was answered in 1926 by a fellow named oskar klein .
he suggested that dimensions might come in two varieties --
there might be big , easy-to-see dimensions , but there might also be tiny , curled-up dimensions , curled up so small , even though they 're all around us , that we don 't see them .
let me show you that one visually . so , imagine you 're looking at something like a cable supporting a traffic light .
it 's in manhattan . you 're in central park -- it 's kind of irrelevant -- but the cable looks one-dimensional from a distant viewpoint , but you and i all know that it does have some thickness .
it 's very hard to see it , though , from far away .
but if we zoom in and take the perspective of , say , a little ant walking around --
little ants are so small that they can access all of the dimensions -- the long dimension , but also this clockwise , counter-clockwise direction . and i hope you appreciate this . it took so long to get these ants to do this . but this illustrates the fact that dimensions can be of two sorts : big and small . and the idea that maybe the big dimensions around us are the ones that we can easily see , but there might be additional dimensions curled up , sort of like the circular part of that cable , so small that they have so far remained invisible .
let me show you what that would look like .
so , if we take a look , say , at space itself --
i can only show , of course , two dimensions on a screen .
some of you guys will fix that one day , but anything that 's not flat on a screen is a new dimension , goes smaller , smaller , smaller , and way down in the microscopic depths of space itself , this is the idea , you could have additional curled up dimensions --
here is a little shape of a circle -- so small that we don 't see them .
but if you were a little ultra microscopic ant walking around , you could walk in the big dimensions that we all know about -- that 's like the grid part -- but you could also access the tiny curled-up dimension that 's so small that we can 't see it with the naked eye or even with any of our most refined equipment .
but deeply tucked into the fabric of space itself , the idea is there could be more dimensions , as we see there .
now that 's an explanation about how the universe could have more dimensions than the ones that we see .
but what about the second question that i asked : does the theory actually work when you try to apply it to the real world ?
well , it turns out that einstein and kaluza and many others worked on trying to refine this framework and apply it to the physics of the universe as was understood at the time , and , in detail , it didn 't work .
in detail , for instance , they couldn 't get the mass of the electron to work out correctly in this theory .
so many people worked on it , but by the ' 40s , certainly by the ' 50s , this strange but very compelling idea of how to unify the laws of physics had gone away .
until something wonderful happened in our age .
in our era , a new approach to unify the laws of physics is being pursued by physicists such as myself , many others around the world , it 's called superstring theory , as you were indicating .
and the wonderful thing is that superstring theory has nothing to do at first sight with this idea of extra dimensions , but when we study superstring theory , we find that it resurrects the idea in a sparkling , new form .
so , let me just tell you how that goes .
superstring theory -- what is it ?
well , it 's a theory that tries to answer the question : what are the basic , fundamental , indivisible , uncuttable constituents making up everything in the world around us ?
the idea is like this .
so , imagine we look at a familiar object , just a candle in a holder , and imagine that we want to figure out what it is made of .
so we go on a journey deep inside the object and examine the constituents .
so deep inside -- we all know , you go sufficiently far down , you have atoms .
we also all know that atoms are not the end of the story .
they have little electrons that swarm around a central nucleus with neutrons and protons .
even the neutrons and protons have smaller particles inside of them known as quarks . that is where conventional ideas stop .
here is the new idea of string theory .
deep inside any of these particles , there is something else .
this something else is this dancing filament of energy .
it looks like a vibrating string -- that 's where the idea , string theory comes from . and just like the vibrating strings that you just saw in a cello can vibrate in different patterns , these can also vibrate in different patterns .
they don 't produce different musical notes .
rather , they produce the different particles making up the world around us .
so if these ideas are correct , this is what the ultra-microscopic landscape of the universe looks like .
it 's built up of a huge number of these little tiny filaments of vibrating energy , vibrating in different frequencies .
the different frequencies produce the different particles .
the different particles are responsible for all the richness in the world around us .
and there you see unification , because matter particles , electrons and quarks , radiation particles , photons , gravitons , are all built up from one entity .
so matter and the forces of nature all are put together under the rubric of vibrating strings .
and that 's what we mean by a unified theory .
now here is the catch .
when you study the mathematics of string theory , you find that it doesn 't work in a universe that just has three dimensions of space .
it doesn 't work in a universe with four dimensions of space , nor five , nor six .
finally , you can study the equations , and show that it works only in a universe that has 10 dimensions of space and one dimension of time .
it leads us right back to this idea of kaluza and klein -- that our world , when appropriately described , has more dimensions than the ones that we see .
now you might think about that and say , well , ok , you know , if you have extra dimensions , and they 're really tightly curled up , yeah , perhaps we won 't see them , if they 're small enough .
but if there 's a little tiny civilization of green people walking around down there , and you make them small enough , and we won 't see them either . that is true .
one of the other predictions of string theory --
no , that 's not one of the other predictions of string theory . but it raises the question : are we just trying to hide away these extra dimensions , or do they tell us something about the world ?
in the remaining time , i 'd like to tell you two features of them .
first is , many of us believe that these extra dimensions hold the answer to what perhaps is the deepest question in theoretical physics , theoretical science .
and that question is this : when we look around the world , as scientists have done for the last hundred years , there appear to be about 20 numbers that really describe our universe .
these are numbers like the mass of the particles , like electrons and quarks , the strength of gravity , the strength of the electromagnetic force --
a list of about 20 numbers that have been measured with incredible precision , but nobody has an explanation for why the numbers have the particular values that they do .
now , does string theory offer an answer ?
not yet .
but we believe the answer for why those numbers have the values they do may rely on the form of the extra dimensions .
and the wonderful thing is , if those numbers had any other values than the known ones , the universe , as we know it , wouldn 't exist .
this is a deep question .
why are those numbers so finely tuned to allow stars to shine and planets to form , when we recognize that if you fiddle with those numbers --
if i had 20 dials up here and i let you come up and fiddle with those numbers , almost any fiddling makes the universe disappear .
so can we explain those 20 numbers ?
and string theory suggests that those 20 numbers have to do with the extra dimensions .
let me show you how .
so when we talk about the extra dimensions in string theory , it 's not one extra dimension , as in the older ideas of kaluza and klein .
this is what string theory says about the extra dimensions .
they have a very rich , intertwined geometry .
this is an example of something known as a calabi-yau shape --
name isn 't all that important .
but , as you can see , the extra dimensions fold in on themselves and intertwine in a very interesting shape , interesting structure .
and the idea is that if this is what the extra dimensions look like , then the microscopic landscape of our universe all around us would look like this on the tiniest of scales .
when you swing your hand , you 'd be moving around these extra dimensions over and over again , but they 're so small that we wouldn 't know it .
so what is the physical implication , though , relevant to those 20 numbers ?
consider this . if you look at the instrument , a french horn , notice that the vibrations of the airstreams are affected by the shape of the instrument .
now in string theory , all the numbers are reflections of the way strings can vibrate .
so just as those airstreams are affected by the twists and turns in the instrument , strings themselves will be affected by the vibrational patterns in the geometry within which they are moving .
so let me bring some strings into the story .
and if you watch these little fellows vibrating around --
they 'll be there in a second -- right there , notice that they way they vibrate is affected by the geometry of the extra dimensions .
so , if we knew exactly what the extra dimensions look like -- we don 't yet , but if we did -- we should be able to calculate the allowed notes , the allowed vibrational patterns .
and if we could calculate the allowed vibrational patterns , we should be able to calculate those 20 numbers .
and if the answer that we get from our calculations agrees with the values of those numbers that have been determined through detailed and precise experimentation , this in many ways would be the first fundamental explanation for why the structure of the universe is the way it is .
now , the second issue that i want to finish up with is : how might we test for these extra dimensions more directly ?
is this just an interesting mathematical structure that might be able to explain some previously unexplained features of the world , or can we actually test for these extra dimensions ?
and we think -- and this is , i think , very exciting -- that in the next five years or so we may be able to test for the existence of these extra dimensions .
here 's how it goes . in cern , geneva , switzerland , a machine is being built called the large hadron collider .
it 's a machine that will send particles around a tunnel , opposite directions , near the speed of light .
every so often those particles will be aimed at each other , so there 's a head-on collision .
the hope is that if the collision has enough energy , it may eject some of the debris from the collision from our dimensions , forcing it to enter into the other dimensions .
how would we know it ?
well , we 'll measure the amount of energy after the collision , compare it to the amount of energy before , and if there 's less energy after the collision than before , this will be evidence that the energy has drifted away .
and if it drifts away in the right pattern that we can calculate , this will be evidence that the extra dimensions are there .
let me show you that idea visually .
so , imagine we have a certain kind of particle called a graviton --
that 's the kind of debris we expect to be ejected out , if the extra dimensions are real .
but here 's how the experiment will go .
you take these particles . you slam them together .
you slam them together , and if we are right , some of the energy of that collision will go into debris that flies off into these extra dimensions .
so this is the kind of experiment that we 'll be looking at in the next five , seven to 10 years or so .
and if this experiment bears fruit , if we see that kind of particle ejected by noticing that there 's less energy in our dimensions than when we began , this will show that the extra dimensions are real .
and to me this is a really remarkable story , and a remarkable opportunity . going back to newton with absolute space --
didn 't provide anything but an arena , a stage in which the events of the universe take place .
einstein comes along and says , well , space and time can warp and curve -- that 's what gravity is .
and now string theory comes along and says , yes , gravity , quantum mechanics , electromagnetism ,
all together in one package , but only if the universe has more dimensions than the ones that we see . and this is an experiment that may test for them in our lifetime .
amazing possibility .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / beau _ lotto _ optical _ illusions _ show _ how _ we _ see.html
beau lotto 's color games puzzle your vision , but they also spotlight what you can 't normally see : how your brain works . this fun , first-hand look at your own versatile sense of sight reveals how evolution tints your perception of what 's really out there .
art , brain , consciousness , mind , psychology , science , visualizations
653
beau lotto : optical illusions show how we see
i want to start with a game .
and to win this game , all you have to do is see the reality that 's in front of you as it really is . all right ?
so , we have two panels here , of colored dots .
and one of those dots is the same in the two panels . okay ?
and you have to tell me which one .
now , narrow it down to the gray one , the green one and , say , the orange one .
so , by a show of hands -- we 'll start with the easiest one -- show of hands : how many people think it 's the gray one ?
really ? okay .
how many people think it 's the green one ?
and how many people think it 's the orange one ?
pretty even split .
let 's find out what the reality is .
here is the orange one .
here is the green one .
and here is the gray one .
so , for all of you who saw that , you 're a complete realist . all right ?
so , this is pretty amazing , actually , isn 't it ?
because nearly every living system has evolved the ability to detect light in one way or another .
so , for us , seeing color is one of the simplest things the brain does .
and yet , even at this most fundamental level , context is everything .
what i want to talk about is not that context is everything , but why is context everything .
because it 's answering that question that tells us not only why we see what we do , but who we are as individuals , and who we are as a society .
but first , we have to ask another question , which is , " what is color for ? "
and instead of telling you , i 'll just show you .
what you see here is a jungle scene ,
and you see the surfaces according to the amount of light that those surfaces reflect .
now , can any of you see the predator that 's about to jump out at you ?
and if you haven 't seen it yet , you 're dead . right ?
can anyone see it ? anyone ? no ?
now , let 's see the surfaces according to the quality of light that they reflect .
and now you see it .
so , color enables us to see the similarities and differences between surfaces , according to the full spectrum of light that they reflect .
but what you 've just done is , in many respects , mathematically impossible .
why ? because , as berkeley tells us , we have no direct access to our physical world , other than through our senses .
and the light that falls onto our eyes is determined by multiple things in the world -- not only the color of objects , but also the color of their illumination , and the color of the space between us and those objects .
you vary any one of those parameters , and you 'll change the color of the light that falls onto your eye .
this is a huge problem because it means that the same image could have an infinite number of possible real-world sources .
so let me show you what i mean . imagine that this is the back of your eye .
and these are two projections from the world .
they are identical in every single way .
identical in shape , size , spectral content . they are the same , as far as your eye is concerned .
and yet they come from completely different sources .
the one on the right comes from a yellow surface , in shadow , oriented facing the left , viewed through a pinkish medium .
the one on the left comes from an orange surface , under direct light , facing to the right , viewed through a sort of a bluish medium .
completely different meanings , giving rise to the exact same retinal information .
and yet it 's only the retinal information that we get .
so how on earth do we even see ?
so , if you remember anything in this next 18 minutes , remember this : that the light that falls on to your eye , sensory information , is meaningless ,
because it could mean literally anything .
and what 's true for sensory information is true for information generally .
there is no inherent meaning in information .
it 's what we do with that information that matters .
so , how do we see ? well , we see by learning to see .
so , the brain evolved the mechanisms for finding patterns , finding relationships in information and associating those relationships with a behavioral meaning , a significance , by interacting with the world .
we 're very aware of this in the form of more cognitive attributes , like language .
so , i 'm going to give you some letter strings . and i want you to read them out for me , if you can .
audience : " can you read this ? "
" you are not reading this . "
" what are you reading ? "
beau lotto : " what are you reading ? " half the letters are missing . right ?
there is no a priori reason why an " h " has to go between that " w " and " a. "
but you put one there . why ?
because in the statistics of your past experience it would have been useful to do so . so you do so again .
and yet you don 't put a letter after that first " t. "
why ? because it wouldn 't have been useful in the past .
so you don 't do it again .
so let me show you how quickly our brains can redefine normality ,
even at the simplest thing the brain does , which is color .
so , if i could have the lights down up here .
i want you to first notice that those two desert scenes are physically the same .
one is simply the flipping of the other . okay ?
now i want you to look at that dot between the green and the red . okay ?
and i want you to stare at that dot . don 't look anywhere else .
and we 're going to look at that for about 30 seconds ,
which is a bit of a killer in an 18-minute talk .
but i really want you to learn .
and i 'll tell you -- don 't look anywhere else -- and i 'll tell you what 's happening inside your head .
your brain is learning . and it 's learning that the right side of its visual field is under red illumination ; the left side of its visual field is under green illumination .
that 's what it 's learning . okay ?
now , when i tell you , i want you to look at the dot between the two desert scenes .
so why don 't you do that now ?
can i have the lights up again ?
i take it from your response they don 't look the same anymore . right ?
why ? because your brain is seeing that same information as if the right one is still under red light , and the left one is still under green light .
that 's your new normal .
so , what does this mean for context ?
it means that i can take these two identical squares , and i can put them in light and dark surrounds .
and now the one on the dark surround looks lighter than the one on the light surround .
what 's significant is not simply the light and dark surrounds that matter .
it 's what those light and dark surrounds meant for your behavior in the past .
so i 'll show you what i mean . here we have that exact same illusion .
we have two identical tiles , on the left , one in a dark surround , one in a light surround .
and the same thing over on the right .
now , what i 'm going to do is i 'm going to review those two scenes .
but i 'm not going to change anything within those boxes , except their meaning .
and see what happens to your perception .
notice that on the left the two tiles look nearly completely opposite : one very white and one very dark .
all right ? whereas on the right , the two tiles look nearly the same .
and yet there is still one on a dark surround and one on a light surround .
why ? because if the tile in that shadow were in fact in shadow , and reflecting the same amount of light to your eye as the one outside the shadow , it would have to be more reflective -- just the laws of physics .
so you see it that way .
whereas on the right , the information is consistent with those two tiles being under the same light .
if they are under the same light , reflecting the same amount of light to your eye , then they must be equally reflective .
so you see it that way .
which means we can bring all this information together to create some incredibly strong illusions .
this is one i made a few years ago .
and you 'll notice you see a dark brown tile at the top , and a bright orange tile at the side .
that is your perceptual reality . the physical reality is that those two tiles are the same .
here you see four gray tiles on your left , seven gray tiles on the right .
i 'm not going to change those tiles at all ,
but i 'm going to reveal the rest of the scene
and see what happens to your perception .
the four blue tiles on the left are gray .
the seven yellow tiles on the right are also gray .
they are the same . okay ?
don 't believe me ? let 's watch it again .
what 's true for color is also true for complex perceptions of motion .
so here we have -- let 's turn this around -- a diamond .
and what i 'm going to do is , i 'm going to hold it here , and i 'm going to spin it . and for all of you , you 'll see it probably spinning this direction .
now i want you to keep looking at it .
move your eyes around , blink , maybe close one eye .
and suddenly it will flip , and start spinning the opposite direction .
yes ? raise your hand if you got that . yes ?
keep blinking . every time you blink it will switch . alright ?
so i can ask you , which direction is it rotating ?
how do you know ?
your brain doesn 't know . because both are equally likely .
so depending on where it looks , it flips between the two possibilities .
are we the only ones that see illusions ?
the answer to this question is no .
even the beautiful bumblebee , with its mere one million brain cells , which is 250 times fewer cells than you have in one retina , sees illusions , does the most complicated things that even our most sophisticated computers can 't do .
so in my lab , we of course work on bumblebees .
because we can completely control their experience , and see how that alters the architecture of their brain .
and we do this in what we call the bee matrix .
and here you have the hive . you can see the queen bee , that large bee in the middle there . those are all her daughters , the eggs .
and they go back and forth between this hive and the arena , via this tube .
and you 'll see one of the bees come out here .
you see how she has a little number on her ?
yeah there is another one coming out . she has another number on her .
now , they are not born that way . right ?
we pull them out , put them in the fridge , and they fall asleep .
and then you can superglue little numbers on them .
and now , in this experiment they get rewarded if they go to the blue flowers .
and they land on the flower . they stick their tongue in there , called a proboscis , and they drink sugar water .
now she is drinking a glass of water that 's about that big to you and i , will do that about three times , and then fly .
and sometimes they learn not to go to the blue , but to go to where the other bees go .
so they copy each other . they can count to five . they can recognize faces .
and here she comes down the ladder .
and she 'll come into the hive , find an empty honey pot and throw up , and that 's honey .
now remember -- -- she 's supposed to be going to the blue flowers .
but what are these bees doing in the upper right corner ?
it looks like they 're going to green flowers .
now , are they getting it wrong ?
and the answer to the question is no . those are actually blue flowers .
but those are blue flowers under green light .
so they are using the relationships between the colors to solve the puzzle ,
which is exactly what we do .
so , illusions are often used , especially in art , in the words of a more contemporary artist , " to demonstrate the fragility of our senses . "
okay , this is complete rubbish .
the senses aren 't fragile . and if they were , we wouldn 't be here .
instead , color tells us something completely different , that the brain didn 't actually evolve to see the world the way it is .
we can 't . instead , the brain evolved to see the world the way it was useful to see in the past .
and how we see is by continually redefining normality .
so how can we take this incredible capacity of plasticity of the brain and get people to experience their world differently ?
well , one of the ways we do in my lab and studio is we translate the light into sound and we enable people to hear their visual world .
and they can navigate the world using their ears .
here is david , in the right . and he is holding a camera .
on the left is what his camera sees .
and you 'll see there is a line , a faint line going across that image .
that line is broken up into 32 squares .
in each square we calculate the average color .
and then we just simply translate that into sound .
and now he 's going to turn around , close his eyes , and find a plate on the ground with his eyes closed .
he finds it . amazing . right ?
so not only can we create a prosthetic for the visually impaired , but we can also investigate how people literally make sense of the world .
but we can also do something else . we can also make music with color .
so , working with kids , they created images , thinking about what might the images you see sound like if we could listen to them .
and then we translated these images .
and this is one of those images .
and this is a six-year-old child composing a piece of music for a 32-piece orchestra . and this is what it sounds like .
so , a six-year-old child . okay ?
now , what does all this mean ?
what this suggests is that no one is an outside observer of nature . okay ?
we are not defined by our central properties , by the bits that make us up .
we 're defined by our environment and our interaction with that environment -- by our ecology .
and that ecology is necessarily relative , historical and empirical .
so what i 'd like to finish with is this over here .
because what i 've been trying to do is really celebrate uncertainty .
because i think only through uncertainty is there potential for understanding .
so , if some of you are still feeling a bit too certain , i 'd like to do this one .
so , if we have the lights down .
and what we have here -- can everyone see 25 purple surfaces on your left , and 25 , call it yellowish , surfaces on your right ?
so , now , what i want to do : i 'm going to put the middle nine surfaces here under yellow illumination by simply putting a filter behind them .
all right . now you can see that changes the light that 's coming through there . right ?
because now the light is going through a yellowish filter and then a purplish filter . i 'm going to do this opposite on the left here .
i 'm going to put the middle nine under a purplish light .
now , some of you will notice that the consequence is that the light coming through those middle nine on the right , or your left , is exactly the same as the light coming through the middle nine on your right .
agreed ? yes ?
okay . so they are physically the same .
let 's pull the covers off .
now remember , you know the middle nine are exactly the same .
do they look the same ? no .
the question is , " is that an illusion ? "
and i 'll leave you with that .
so , thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / bruce _ schneier.html
the feeling of security and the reality of security don 't always match , says computer-security expert bruce schneier . at tedxpsu , he explains why we spend billions addressing news story risks , like the " security theater " now playing at your local airport , while neglecting more probable risks -- and how we can break this pattern .
culture , global issues , security , technology
1132
bruce schneier : the security mirage
so security is two different things : it 's a feeling , and it 's a reality .
and they 're different .
you could feel secure even if you 're not .
and you can be secure even if you don 't feel it .
really , we have two separate concepts mapped onto the same word .
and what i want to do in this talk is to split them apart -- figuring out when they diverge and how they converge .
and language is actually a problem here . there aren 't a lot of good words for the concepts we 're going to talk about .
so if you look at security from economic terms , it 's a trade-off .
every time you get some security , you 're always trading off something .
whether this is a personal decision -- whether you 're going to install a burglar alarm in your home -- or a national decision -- where you 're going to invade some foreign country -- you 're going to trade off something , either money or time , convenience , capabilities , maybe fundamental liberties .
and the question to ask when you look at a security anything is not whether this makes us safer , but whether it 's worth the trade-off .
you 've heard in the past several years , the world is safer because saddam hussein is not in power .
that might be true , but it 's not terribly relevant .
the question is , was it worth it ?
and you can make your own decision , and then you 'll decide whether the invasion was worth it .
that 's how you think about security -- in terms of the trade-off .
now there 's often no right or wrong here .
some of us have a burglar alarm system at home , and some of us don 't .
and it 'll depend on where we live , whether we live alone or have a family , how much cool stuff we have , how much we 're willing to accept the risk of theft .
in politics also , there are different opinions .
a lot of times , these trade-offs are about more than just security , and i think that 's really important .
now people have a natural intuition about these trade-offs .
we make them every day -- last night in my hotel room , when i decided to double-lock the door , or you in your car when you drove here , when we go eat lunch and decide the food 's not poison and we 'll eat it .
we make these trade-offs again and again , multiple times a day .
we often won 't even notice them .
they 're just part of being alive ; we all do it . every species does it .
imagine a rabbit in a field , eating grass , and the rabbit 's going to see a fox .
that rabbit will make a security trade-off : " should i stay , or should i flee ? "
and if you think about it , the rabbits that are good at making that trade-off will tend to live and reproduce , and the rabbits that are bad at it will get eaten or starve .
so you 'd think that us , as a successful species on the planet -- you , me , everybody -- would be really good at making these trade-offs .
yet it seems , again and again , that we 're hopelessly bad at it .
and i think that 's a fundamentally interesting question .
i 'll give you the short answer .
the answer is , we respond to the feeling of security and not the reality .
now most of the time , that works .
most of the time , feeling and reality are the same .
certainly that 's true for most of human prehistory .
we 've developed this ability because it makes evolutionary sense .
one way to think of it is that we 're highly optimized for risk decisions that are endemic to living in small family groups in the east african highlands in 100,000 b.c. 2010 new york , not so much .
now there are several biases in risk perception .
a lot of good experiments in this .
and you can see certain biases that come up again and again .
so i 'll give you four .
we tend to exaggerate spectacular and rare risks and downplay common risks -- so flying versus driving .
the unknown is perceived to be riskier than the familiar .
one example would be , people fear kidnapping by strangers when the data supports kidnapping by relatives is much more common .
this is for children .
third , personified risks are perceived to be greater than anonymous risks -- so bin laden is scarier because he has a name .
and the fourth is people underestimate risks in situations they do control and overestimate them in situations they don 't control .
so once you take up skydiving or smoking , you downplay the risks .
if a risk is thrust upon you -- terrorism was a good example -- you 'll overplay it because you don 't feel like it 's in your control .
there are a bunch of other of these biases , these cognitive biases , that affect our risk decisions .
there 's the availability heuristic , which basically means we estimate the probability of something by how easy it is to bring instances of it to mind .
so you can imagine how that works .
if you hear a lot about tiger attacks , there must be a lot of tigers around .
you don 't hear about lion attacks , there aren 't a lot of lions around .
this works until you invent newspapers . because what newspapers do is they repeat again and again rare risks .
i tell people , if it 's in the news , don 't worry about it .
because by definition , news is something that almost never happens .
when something is so common , it 's no longer news -- car crashes , domestic violence -- those are the risks you worry about .
we 're also a species of storytellers .
we respond to stories more than data .
and there 's some basic innumeracy going on .
i mean , the joke " one , two , three , many " is kind of right .
we 're really good at small numbers .
one mango , two mangoes , three mangoes , 10,000 mangoes , 100,000 mangoes -- it 's still more mangoes you can eat before they rot .
so one half , one quarter , one fifth -- we 're good at that .
one in a million , one in a billion -- they 're both almost never .
so we have trouble with the risks that aren 't very common .
and what these cognitive biases do is they act as filters between us and reality .
and the result is that feeling and reality get out of whack , they get different .
now you either have a feeling -- you feel more secure than you are .
there 's a false sense of security .
or the other way , and that 's a false sense of insecurity .
i write a lot about " security theater , " which are products that make people feel secure , but don 't actually do anything .
there 's no real word for stuff that makes us secure , but doesn 't make us feel secure .
maybe it 's what the cia 's supposed to do for us .
so back to economics .
if economics , if the market , drives security , and if people make trade-offs based on the feeling of security , then the smart thing for companies to do for the economic incentives are to make people feel secure .
and there are two ways to do this .
one , you can make people actually secure and hope they notice .
or two , you can make people just feel secure and hope they don 't notice .
so what makes people notice ?
well a couple of things : understanding of the security , of the risks , the threats , the countermeasures , how they work .
but if you know stuff , you 're more likely to have your feelings match reality .
enough real world examples helps .
now we all know the crime rate in our neighborhood , because we live there , and we get a feeling about it that basically matches reality .
security theater 's exposed when it 's obvious that it 's not working properly .
okay , so what makes people not notice ?
well , a poor understanding .
if you don 't understand the risks , you don 't understand the costs , you 're likely to get the trade-off wrong , and your feeling doesn 't match reality .
not enough examples . there 's an inherent problem with low probability events .
if , for example , terrorism almost never happens , it 's really hard to judge the efficacy of counter-terrorist measures .
this is why you keep sacrificing virgins , and why your unicorn defenses are working just great .
there aren 't enough examples of failures .
also , feelings that are clouding the issues -- the cognitive biases i talked about earlier , fears , folk beliefs , basically an inadequate model of reality .
so let me complicate things .
i have feeling and reality .
i want to add a third element . i want to add model .
feeling and model in our head , reality is the outside world .
it doesn 't change ; it 's real .
so feeling is based on our intuition .
model is based on reason .
that 's basically the difference .
in a primitive and simple world , there 's really no reason for a model
because feeling is close to reality .
you don 't need a model .
but in a modern and complex world , you need models to understand a lot of the risks we face .
there 's no feeling about germs .
you need a model to understand them .
so this model is an intelligent representation of reality .
it 's , of course , limited by science , by technology .
we couldn 't have a germ theory of disease before we invented the microscope to see them .
it 's limited by our cognitive biases .
but it has the ability to override our feelings .
where do we get these models ? we get them from others .
we get them from religion , from culture , teachers , elders .
a couple years ago , i was in south africa on safari .
the tracker i was with grew up in kruger national park .
he had some very complex models of how to survive .
and it depended on if you were attacked by a lion or a leopard or a rhino or an elephant -- and when you had to run away , and when you couldn 't run away , and when you had to climb a tree -- when you could never climb a tree .
i would have died in a day , but he was born there , and he understood how to survive .
i was born in new york city .
i could have taken him to new york , and he would have died in a day .
because we had different models based on our different experiences .
models can come from the media , from our elected officials .
think of models of terrorism , child kidnapping , airline safety , car safety .
models can come from industry .
the two i 'm following are surveillance cameras , id cards , quite a lot of our computer security models come from there .
a lot of models come from science .
health models are a great example .
think of cancer , of bird flu , swine flu , sars .
all of our feelings of security about those diseases come from models given to us , really , by science filtered through the media .
so models can change .
models are not static .
as we become more comfortable in our environments , our model can move closer to our feelings .
so an example might be , if you go back 100 years ago when electricity was first becoming common , there were a lot of fears about it .
i mean , there were people who were afraid to push doorbells , because there was electricity in there , and that was dangerous .
for us , we 're very facile around electricity .
we change light bulbs without even thinking about it .
our model of security around electricity is something we were born into .
it hasn 't changed as we were growing up .
and we 're good at it .
or think of the risks on the internet across generations -- how your parents approach internet security , versus how you do , versus how our kids will .
models eventually fade into the background .
intuitive is just another word for familiar .
so as your model is close to reality , and it converges with feelings , you often don 't know it 's there .
so a nice example of this came from last year and swine flu .
when swine flu first appeared , the initial news caused a lot of overreaction .
now it had a name , which made it scarier than the regular flu , even though it was more deadly .
and people thought doctors should be able to deal with it .
so there was that feeling of lack of control .
and those two things made the risk more than it was .
as the novelty wore off , the months went by , there was some amount of tolerance , people got used to it .
there was no new data , but there was less fear .
by autumn , people thought the doctors should have solved this already .
and there 's kind of a bifurcation -- people had to choose between fear and acceptance -- actually fear and indifference -- they kind of chose suspicion .
and when the vaccine appeared last winter , there were a lot of people -- a surprising number -- who refused to get it -- as a nice example of how people 's feelings of security change , how their model changes , sort of wildly with no new information , with no new input .
this kind of thing happens a lot .
i 'm going to give one more complication .
we have feeling , model , reality .
i have a very relativistic view of security .
i think it depends on the observer .
and most security decisions have a variety of people involved .
and stakeholders with specific trade-offs will try to influence the decision .
and i call that their agenda .
and you see agenda -- this is marketing , this is politics -- trying to convince you to have one model versus another , trying to convince you to ignore a model and trust your feelings , marginalizing people with models you don 't like .
this is not uncommon . an example , a great example , is the risk of smoking .
in the history of the past 50 years , the smoking risk shows how a model changes , and it also shows how an industry fights against a model it doesn 't like .
compare that to the secondhand smoke debate -- probably about 20 years behind .
think about seat belts .
when i was a kid , no one wore a seat belt .
nowadays , no kid will let you drive if you 're not wearing a seat belt .
compare that to the airbag debate -- probably about 30 years behind .
all examples of models changing .
what we learn is that changing models is hard .
models are hard to dislodge .
if they equal your feelings , you don 't even know you have a model .
and there 's another cognitive bias i 'll call confirmation bias , where we tend to accept data that confirms our beliefs and reject data that contradicts our beliefs .
so evidence against our model , we 're likely to ignore , even if it 's compelling .
it has to get very compelling before we 'll pay attention .
new models that extend long periods of time are hard .
global warming is a great example .
we 're terrible at models that span 80 years .
we can do to the next harvest .
we can often do until our kids grow up .
but 80 years , we 're just not good at .
so it 's a very hard model to accept .
we can have both models in our head simultaneously , right , that kind of problem where we 're holding both beliefs together , right , the cognitive dissonance .
eventually , the new model will replace the old model .
strong feelings can create a model .
september 11th created a security model in a lot of people 's heads .
also , personal experiences with crime can do it , personal health scare , a health scare in the news .
you 'll see these called flashbulb events by psychiatrists .
they can create a model instantaneously , because they 're very emotive .
so in the technological world , we don 't have experience to judge models .
and we rely on others . we rely on proxies .
i mean , this works as long as it 's to correct others .
we rely on government agencies to tell us what pharmaceuticals are safe .
i flew here yesterday . i didn 't check the airplane .
i relied on some other group to determine whether my plane was safe to fly .
we 're here , none of us fear the roof is going to collapse on us , not because we checked , but because we 're pretty sure the building codes here are good .
it 's a model we just accept pretty much by faith .
and that 's okay .
now , what we want is people to get familiar enough with better models -- have it reflected in their feelings -- to allow them to make security trade-offs .
now when these go out of whack , you have two options .
one , you can fix people 's feelings , directly appeal to feelings .
it 's manipulation , but it can work .
the second , more honest way is to actually fix the model .
change happens slowly .
the smoking debate took 40 years , and that was an easy one .
some of this stuff is hard .
i mean really though , information seems like our best hope .
and i lied .
remember i said feeling , model , reality ;
i said reality doesn 't change . it actually does .
we live in a technological world ; reality changes all the time .
so we might have -- for the first time in our species -- feeling chases model , model chases reality , reality 's moving -- they might never catch up .
we don 't know .
but in the long-term , both feeling and reality are important .
and i want to close with two quick stories to illustrate this .
1982 -- i don 't know if people will remember this -- there was a short epidemic of tylenol poisonings in the united states .
it 's a horrific story . someone took a bottle of tylenol , put poison in it , closed it up , put it back on the shelf .
someone else bought it and died .
this terrified people .
there were a couple of copycat attacks .
there wasn 't any real risk , but people were scared .
and this is how the tamper-proof drug industry was invented .
those tamper-proof caps , that came from this .
it 's complete security theater .
as a homework assignment , think of 10 ways to get around it .
i 'll give you one , a syringe .
but it made people feel better .
it made their feeling of security more match the reality .
last story , a few years ago , a friend of mine gave birth .
i visit her in the hospital .
it turns out when a baby 's born now , they put an rfid bracelet on the baby , put a corresponding one on the mother , so if anyone other than the mother takes the baby out of the maternity ward , an alarm goes off .
i said , " well , that 's kind of neat .
i wonder how rampant baby snatching is out of hospitals . "
i go home , i look it up .
it basically never happens .
but if you think about it , if you are a hospital , and you need to take a baby away from its mother , out of the room to run some tests , you better have some good security theater , or she 's going to rip your arm off .
so it 's important for us , those of us who design security , who look at security policy , or even look at public policy in ways that affect security .
it 's not just reality ; it 's feeling and reality .
what 's important is that they be about the same . it 's important that , if our feelings match reality , we make better security trade-offs .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jonathan _ drori _ why _ we _ re _ storing _ billions _ of _ seeds.html
in this brief talk from ted u 2009 , jonathan drori encourages us to save biodiversity -- one seed at a time . reminding us that plants support human life , he shares the vision of the millennium seed bank , which has stored over 3 billion seeds to date from dwindling yet essential plant species .
biodiversity , biology , biosphere , environment , future , life , science
556
jonathan drori : why we 're storing billions of seeds
all human life , all life , depends on plants .
let me try to convince you of that in a few seconds .
just think for a moment .
it doesn 't matter whether you live in a small african village , or you live in a big city , everything comes back to plants in the end :
whether it 's for the food , the medicine , the fuel , the construction , the clothing , all the obvious things ; or whether it 's for the spiritual and recreational things that matter to us so much ; or whether it 's soil formation , or the effect on the atmosphere , or primary production .
damn it , even the books here are made out of plants .
all these things , they come back to plants .
and without them we wouldn 't be here .
now plants are under threat .
they 're under threat because of changing climate .
and they are also under threat because they are sharing a planet with people like us .
and people like us want to do things that destroy plants , and their habitats .
and whether that 's because of food production , or because of the introduction of alien plants into places that they really oughtn 't be , or because of habitats being used for other purposes -- all these things are meaning that plants have to adapt , or die , or move .
and plants sometimes find it rather difficult to move because there might be cities and other things in the way .
so if all human life depends on plants , doesn 't it make sense that perhaps we should try to save them ?
i think it does .
and i want to tell you about a project to save plants .
and the way that you save plants is by storing seeds .
because seeds , in all their diverse glory , are plants ' futures .
all the genetic information for future generations of plants are held in seeds .
so here is the building ;
it looks rather unassuming , really .
but it goes down below ground many stories .
and it 's the largest seed bank in the world .
it exists not only in southern england , but distributed around the world . i 'll come to that .
this is a nuclear-proof facility .
god forbid that it should have to withstand that .
so if you 're going to build a seed bank , you have to decide what you 're going to store in it . right ?
and we decided that what we want to store first of all , are the species that are most under threat .
and those are the dry land species .
so first of all we did deals with 50 different countries .
it means negotiating with heads of state , and with secretaries of state in 50 countries to sign treaties .
we have 120 partner institutions all over the world , in all those countries colored orange .
people come from all over the world to learn ,
and then they go away and plan exactly how they 're going to collect these seeds .
they have thousands of people all over the world tagging places where those plants are said to exist .
they search for them . they find them in flower .
and they go back when their seeds have arrived .
and they collect the seeds . all over the world .
the seeds -- some of if is very untechnical .
you kind of shovel them all in to bags and dry them off .
you label them . you do some high-tech things here and there ,
some low-tech things here and there .
and the main thing is that you have to dry them very carefully , at low temperature .
and then you have to store them at about minus 20 degrees c -- that 's about minus four fahrenheit , i think -- with a very critically low moisture content .
and these seeds will be able to germinate , we believe , with many of the species , in thousands of years , and certainly in hundreds of years .
it 's no good storing the seeds if you don 't know they 're still viable .
so every 10 years we do germination tests on every sample of seeds that we have .
and this is a distributed network .
so all around the world people are doing the same thing .
and that enables us to develop germination protocols .
that means that we know the right combination of heat and cold and the cycles that you have to get to make the seed germinate .
and that is very useful information .
and then we grow these things ,
and we tell people , back in the countries where these seeds have come from , " look , actually we 're not just storing this to get the seeds later , but we can give you this information about how to germinate these difficult plants . "
and that 's already happening .
so where have we got to ?
i am pleased to unveil that our three billionth seed -- that 's three thousand millionth seed -- is now stored .
ten percent of all plant species on the planet ,
24,000 species are safe ;
30,000 species , if we get the funding , by next year .
twenty-five percent of all the world 's plants , by 2020 .
these are not just crop plants , as you might have seen stored in svalbard in norway --
fantastic work there .
this is at least 100 times bigger .
we have thousands of collections that have been sent out all over the world :
drought-tolerant forest species sent to pakistan and egypt ;
especially photosynthetic-efficient plants come here to the united states ;
salt-tolerant pasture species sent to australia ;
the list goes on and on .
these seeds are used for restoration .
so in habitats that have already been damaged ,
like the tall grass prairie here in the usa , or in mined land in various countries , restoration is already happening because of these species --
and because of this collection .
some of these plants , like the ones on the bottom to the left of your screen , they are down to the last few remaining members .
the one where the guy is collecting seeds there on the truck , that is down to about 30 last remaining trees .
fantastically useful plant , both for protein and for medicine .
we have training going on in china , in the usa , and many other countries .
how much does it cost ?
2,800 dollars per species is the average .
i think that 's cheap , at the price .
and that gets you all the scientific data that goes with it .
the future research is " how can we find the genetic and molecular markers for the viability of seeds , without having to plant them every 10 years ? "
and we 're almost there .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / joachim _ de _ posada _ says _ don _ t _ eat _ the _ marshmallow _ yet.html
in this short talk from ted u , joachim de posada shares a landmark experiment on delayed gratification -- and how it can predict future success . with priceless video of kids trying their hardest not to eat the marshmallow .
children , culture , humor , psychology
553
joachim de posada says , don 't eat the marshmallow yet
i 'm here because i have a very important message :
i think we have found
the most important factor for success .
and it was found close to here , stanford .
psychology professor took kids that were four years old
and put them in a room all by themselves .
and he would tell the child , a four-year-old kid ,
" johnny , i am going to leave you here with a marshmallow
for 15 minutes .
if , after i come back , this marshmallow is here , you will get another one . so you will have two . " to tell a four-year-old kid to wait 15 minutes for something that they like , is equivalent to telling us , " we 'll bring you coffee in two hours . " exact equivalent .
so what happened when the professor left the room ?
as soon as the door closed ...
two out of three ate the marshmallow .
five seconds , 10 seconds , 40 seconds , 50 seconds , two minutes , four minutes , eight minutes .
some lasted 14-and-a-half minutes .
couldn 't do it . could not wait .
what 's interesting is that one out of three would look at the marshmallow and go like this ...
would look at it .
put it back .
they would walk around . they would play with their skirts and pants .
that child already , at four , understood the most important principle for success ,
which is the ability to delay gratification .
self-discipline : the most important factor for success .
15 years later , 14 or 15 years later ,
follow-up study .
what did they find ?
they went to look for these kids who were now 18 and 19 .
and they found that 100 percent of the children that had not eaten the marshmallow were successful .
they had good grades . they were doing wonderful .
they were happy . they had their plans .
they had good relationships with the teachers , students .
they were doing fine .
a great percentage of the kids that ate the marshmallow , they were in trouble .
they did not make it to university .
they had bad grades . some of them dropped out .
a few were still there with bad grades .
a few had good grades .
i had a question in my mind : would hispanic kids
react the same way as the american kids ?
so i went to colombia . and i reproduced the experiment .
and it was very funny . i used four , five and six years old kids .
and let me show you what happened .
so what happened in colombia ?
hispanic kids , two out of three ate the marshmallow ;
one out of three did not .
this little girl was interesting ;
she ate the inside of the marshmallow .
in other words , she wanted us to think that she had not eaten it , so she would get two .
but she ate it .
so we know she 'll be successful . but we have to watch her .
she should not go into banking , for example ,
or work at a cash register .
but she will be successful .
and this applies for everything . even in sales .
the sales person that --
the customer says , " i want that . " and the person says , " okay , here you are . "
that person ate the marshmallow .
if the sales person says , " wait a second . let me ask you a few questions to see if this is a good choice . " then you sell a lot more .
so this has applications in all walks of life .
i end with -- the koreans did this . you know what ? this is so good that we want a marshmallow book for children .
we did one for children . and now it is all over korea .
they are teaching these kids exactly this principle .
and we need to learn that principle here in the states ,
because we have a big debt .
we are eating more marshmallows than we are producing .
thank you so much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jonas _ gahr _ store _ in _ defense _ of _ dialogue.html
in politics , it seems counterintuitive to engage in dialogue with violent groups , with radicals and terrorists , and with the states that support them . but jonas gahr stre , the foreign minister of norway , makes a compelling case for open discussion , even when values diverge , in an attempt to build greater security for all .
culture , politics
1321
jonas gahr stre : in defense of dialogue
amongst all the troubling deficits we struggle with today -- we think of financial and economic primarily -- the ones that concern me most is the deficit of political dialogue -- our ability to address modern conflicts as they are , to go to the source of what they 're all about and to understand the key players and to deal with them .
we who are diplomats , we are trained to deal with conflicts between states and issues between states .
and i can tell you , our agenda is full .
there is trade , there is disarmament , there is cross-border relations .
but the picture is changing , and we are seeing that there are new key players coming onto the scene .
we loosely call them " groups . "
they may represent social , religious , political , economic , military realities .
and we struggle with how to deal with them .
the rules of engagement : how to talk , when to talk , and how to deal with them .
let me show you a slide here which illustrates the character of conflicts since 1946 until today .
you see the green is a traditional interstate conflict , the ones we used to read about .
the red is modern conflict , conflicts within states .
these are quite different , and they are outside the grasp of modern diplomacy .
and the core of these key actors are groups who represent different interests inside countries .
and the way they deal with their conflicts rapidly spreads to other countries .
so in a way , it is everybody 's business .
another acknowledgment we 've seen during these years , recent years , is that very few of these domestic interstate , intrastate conflicts can be solved militarily .
they may have to be dealt with with military means , but they cannot be solved by military means .
they need political solutions .
and we , therefore , have a problem , because they escape traditional diplomacy .
and we have among states a reluctance in dealing with them .
plus , during the last decade , we 've been in the mode where dealing with groups was conceptually and politically dangerous .
after 9 / 11 , either you were with us or against us .
it was black or white .
and groups are very often immediately label terrorists .
and who would talk to terrorists ?
the west , as i would see it , comes out of that decade weakened , because we didn 't understand the group .
so we 've spent more time on focusing on why we should not talk to others than finding out how we talk to others .
now i 'm not naive .
you cannot talk to everybody all the time .
and there are times you should walk .
and sometimes military intervention is necessary .
i happen to believe that libya was necessary and that military intervention in afghanistan was also necessary .
and my country relies on its security through military alliance , that 's clear .
but still we have a large deficit in dealing with and understanding modern conflict .
let us turn to afghanistan .
10 years after that military intervention , that country is far from secure .
the situation , to be honest , is very serious .
now again , the military is necessary , but the military is no problem-solver .
when i first came to afghanistan in 2005 as a foreign minister , i met the commander of isaf , the international troops .
and he told me that , " this can be won militarily , minister .
we just have to persevere . " now four com isaf 's later , we hear a different message : " this cannot be won militarily .
we need military presence , but we need to move to politics .
we can only solve this through a political solution .
and it is not us who will solve it ; afghans have to solve it . " but then they need a different political process than the one they were given in 2001 , 2002 .
they need an inclusive process where the real fabric of this very complicated society can deal with their issues .
everybody seems to agree with that .
it was very controversial to say three , four , five years ago .
now everybody agrees .
but now , as we prepare to talk , we understand how little we know .
because we didn 't talk .
we didn 't grasp what was going on .
the international committee of the red cross , the icrc , is talking to everyone , and it is doing so because it is neutral .
and that 's one reason why that organization probably is the best informed key player to understand modern conflict -- because they talk .
my point is that you don 't have to be neutral to talk .
and you don 't have to agree when you sit down with the other side .
and you can always walk .
but if you don 't talk , you can 't engage the other side .
and the other side which you 're going to engage is the one with whom you profoundly disagree .
prime minister rabin said when he engaged the oslo process , " you don 't make peace with your friends , you make peace with your enemies . " it 's hard , but it is necessary .
let me go one step further .
this is tahrir square . there 's a revolution going on .
the arab spring is heading into fall and is moving into winter .
it will last for a long , long time .
and who knows what it will be called in the end .
that 's not the point .
the point is that we are probably seeing , for the first time in the history of the arab world , a revolution bottom-up -- people 's revolution . social groups are taking to the streets .
and we find out in the west that we know very little about what 's happening .
because we never talk to the people in these countries .
most governments followed the dictate of the authoritarian leaders to stay away from these different groups , because they were terrorists .
so now that they are emerging in the street and we salute the democratic revolution , we find out how little we know .
right now , the discussion goes , " should we talk to the muslim brotherhood ?
should we talk to hamas ?
if we talk to them , we may legitimize them . " i think that is wrong .
if you talk in the right way , you make it very clear that talking is not agreeing .
and how can we tell the muslim brotherhood , as we should , that they must respect minority rights , if we don 't accept majority rights ?
because they may turn out to be a majority .
how can we escape [ having ] a double-standard , if we at the same time preach democracy and at the same time don 't want to deal with the groups that are representative ?
how will we ever be interlocutors ?
now my diplomats are instructed to talk to all these groups .
but talking can be done in different ways .
we make a distinction between talking from a diplomatic level and talking at the political level .
now talking can be accompanied with aid or not with aid .
talking can be accompanied with inclusion or not inclusion .
there 's a big array of the ways of dealing with this .
so if we refuse to talk to these new groups that are going to be dominating the news in years to come , we will further radicalization , i believe .
we will make the road from violent activities into politics harder to travel .
and if we cannot demonstrate to these groups that if you move towards democracy , if you move towards taking part in civilized and normal standards among states , there are some rewards on the other side .
the paradox here is that the last decade probably was a lost decade for making progress on this .
and the paradox is that the decade before the last decade was so promising -- and for one reason primarily .
and the reason is what happened in south africa : nelson mandela .
when mandela came out of prison after 27 years of captivity , if he had told his people , " it 's time to take up the arms , it 's time to fight , " he would have been followed .
and i think the international community would have said , " fair enough .
it 's their right to fight . " now as you know , mandela didn 't do that .
in his memoirs , " long road to freedom , " he wrote that he survived during those years of captivity because he always decided to look upon his oppressor as also being a human being , also being a human being . so he engaged a political process of dialogue , not as a strategy of the weak , but as a strategy of the strong .
and he engaged talking profoundly by settling some of the most tricky issues through a truth and reconciliation process where people came and talked .
now south african friends will know that was very painful .
so what can we learn from all of this ?
dialogue is not easy -- not between individuals , not between groups , not between governments -- but it is very necessary .
if we 're going to deal with political conflict-solving of conflicts , if we 're going to understand these new groups which are coming from bottom-up , supported by technology , which is available to all , we diplomats cannot be sitting back in the banquets believing that we are doing interstate relations . we have to connect with these profound changes .
and what is dialogue really about ?
when i enter into dialogue , i really hope that the other side would pick up my points of view , that i would impress upon them my opinions and my values .
i cannot do that unless i send the signals that i will be open to listen to the other side 's signals .
we need a lot more training on how to do that and a lot more practice on how that can take problem-solving forward .
we know from our personal experiences that it 's easy sometimes just to walk , and sometimes you may need to fight .
and i wouldn 't say that is the wrong thing in all circumstances .
sometimes you have to .
but that strategy seldom takes you very far .
the alternative is a strategy of engagement and principled dialogue .
and i believe we need to strengthen this approach in modern diplomacy , not only between states , but also within states .
we are seeing some new signs .
we could never have done the convention against anti-personnel landmines and the convention that is banning cluster munitions unless we had done diplomacy differently , by engaging with civil society .
all of a sudden , ngos were not only standing in the streets , crying their slogans , but they were taking [ them ] into the negotiations , partly because they represented the victims of these weapons .
and they brought their knowledge .
and there was an interaction between diplomacy and the power coming bottom-up . this is perhaps a first element of a change .
in the future , i believe , we should draw examples from these different illustrations , not to have diplomacy which is disconnected from people and civil society .
and we have to go also beyond traditional diplomacy to the survival issue of our times , climate change .
how are we going to solve climate change through negotiations , unless we are able to make civil society and people , not part of the problem , but part of the solution ?
it is going to demand an inclusive process of diplomacy very different from the one we are practicing today as we are heading to new rounds of difficult climate negotiations , but when we move toward something which has to be much more along a broad mobilization .
it 's crucial to understand , i believe , because of technology and because of globalization , societies from bottom-up .
we as diplomats need to know the social capital of communities .
what is it that makes people trust each other , not only between states , but also within states ?
what is the legitimacy of diplomacy , of the the solution we devise as diplomats if they cannot be reflected and understood by also these broader forces of societies that we now very loosely call groups ?
the good thing is that we are not powerless .
we have never had as many means of communication , means of being connected , means of reaching out , means of including .
the diplomatic toolbox is actually full of different tools we can use to strengthen our communication .
but the problem is that we are coming out of a decade where we had a fear of touching it .
now , i hope , in the coming years , that we are able to demonstrate through some concrete examples that fear is receding and that we can take courage from that alliance with civil society in different countries to support their problem-solving , among the afghans , inside the palestinian population , between the peoples of palestine and israel .
and as we try to understand this broad movement across the arab world , we are not powerless .
we need to improve the necessary skills , and we need the courage to use them .
in my country , i have seen how the council of islamist groups and christian groups came together , not as a government initiative , but they came together on their own initiative to establish contact and dialogue in times where things were pretty low-key tension .
and when tension increased , they already had that dialogue , and that was a strength to deal with different issues .
our modern western societies are more complex than before , in this time of migration .
how are we going to settle and build a bigger " we " to deal with our issues if we don 't improve our skills of communication ?
so there are many reasons , and for all of these reasons , this is time and this is why we must talk .
thank you for your attention .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / nathan _ myhrvold _ on _ archeology _ animal _ photography _ bbq.html
nathan myhrvold talks about a few of his latest fascinations -- animal photography , archeology , bbq and generally being an eccentric genius multimillionaire . listen for wild stories from the edge of the animal world .
animals , entertainment , exploration , fish , humor , photography
271
nathan myhrvold on archeology , animal photography , bbq ...
so , i 'm in chile , in the atacama desert , sitting in a hotel lobby , because that 's the only place that i can get a wi-fi connection , and i have this picture up on my screen , and a woman comes up behind me .
she says , " oh , that 's beautiful .
what is it ? is that jackson pollock ? " and unfortunately , i can be a little too honest .
i said , " no , it 's -- it 's penguin shit . "
and , you know , " excuse me ! " and i could sense that she thought i was speaking synecdochically .
so , i said , " no , no , really -- it 's penguin shit . "
because i had just been in the falkland islands taking pictures of penguins .
this is a gentoo penguin . and she was still skeptical .
so , literally , a few minutes before that , i downloaded this scientific paper about calculations on avian defecation ,
which is really quite interesting , because it turns out you can model this as something called " poiseuille flow , " and you can learn an awful lot about the physics of the avian rectum .
actually , technically , it 's not a rectum . it 's called a cloaca .
at this point , she stops me , and she says , " who are you ?
wha -- what do you do ? "
and i was stuck , because i didn 't have any way to describe what i do .
and so , in some sense , this talk today is my answer to that .
it 's a selection of a random bunch of the stuff that i do .
and it 's very hard for me to make sense of it , so i 'm not sure that you can .
it 's the kind of thing that i sit up late at night thinking about sometimes -- often at four in the morning .
so , some people are afraid of what i do .
some people think i am the nerd tony soprano , and in response , i have ordered a bulletproof pocket protector .
i 'm not sure what these people think , because i don 't speak norsk .
but i 'm not thinking " monsteret " is a good thing .
i don 't know , you know ?
so , one of the things that i love to do is travel around the world and look at archaeological sites .
because archaeology gives us an opportunity to study past civilizations , and see where they succeeded and where they failed .
use science to , you know , work backwards and say , " well , really , what were they thinking ? " and recently , i was in easter island , which is an incredibly beautiful place , and an incredibly mysterious place , because no matter where you go in easter island , you 're struck by these statues , called the moai .
the place is 64 square miles .
they made , so far as we can tell , 900 of them .
why on earth ? and if you haven 't read jared diamond 's book , " collapse , " i totally recommend that you do .
he 's got a great chapter about it .
basically , these people committed ecological suicide in order to make more of these .
and somewhere along the line , somebody said , " i know ! let 's cut down the last tree and commit suicide , because we need more identical statues . "
and , one thing that isn 't a mystery , actually , was when i grew up -- because when i was a little kid , i 'd seen these pictures -- and i thought , " well , why that look on the face ?
why that brow ? " i mean , it 's such a powerful thing .
where did they get that inspiration ?
and then i met yoyo , who is the native rapa nui-an guide , and if you look at yoyo 's face , you kind of figure out where they got it .
there 's many mysteries , these statues .
everyone wants to know , how did they make them , how did they transport them ?
this woman in the foreground is jo anne van tilberg .
she 's the leading archaeologist working easter island today .
and she has studied the statues for 20-some years , and she has detailed records of every single statue .
the one on the page here is the same that 's up there .
one interesting problem is the stone isn 't very hard .
so , this used to be completely smooth . in fact , in many of the statues , when you excavate them , the backs are totally smooth -- almost glass smooth .
but after 1,000 years out in the weather , they look like this .
jo anne and i have just embarked on a project to digitize them all , and we 're going to do a very high-res digitization , first because it 's a way of preserving them .
second , we have these ideas about how you can algorithmically , then , learn a few of the mysteries about them .
how long have they been standing in what positions ?
and maybe , indirectly , get at some of the issues of what caused them to be the way they are .
while i was in easter island , comet mcnaught was there also , so you get a gratuitous picture of a moai with a comet .
i also have an archaeological project going on in egypt .
" going on " is perhaps a little bit strong .
we 're trying to get all of the permissions to get everything all set , to get it going .
so , i 'll talk about it at a future ted .
but there 's some amazing opportunities in egypt as well .
another thing i do is i invent stuff .
in fact , i design nuclear reactors .
not a joke .
this is the conventional nuclear fuel cycle .
the red line is what is done in most nuclear reactors . it 's called the open fuel cycle .
the white lines are what 's called an advance fuel cycle , where you reprocess .
now , this is the normal way it 's done .
it 's got the huge advantage that it does not create carbon pollution .
it has a lot of disadvantages : each one of these steps is extremely expensive , it 's potentially dangerous and they have the interesting property that the step cannot be performed in anyone 's backyard , which is a problem .
so , our reactor eliminates these steps , which , if we can actually make it work , is a really cool thing .
now , it 's kind of nuts to work on a new nuclear reactor .
there 's -- no reactor 's been even built to an old design , much less a new one , in the united states for 25 years .
it 's the kind of very high-risk , but potentially very high-return thing that we do .
changing into a totally different field , we do a lot of stuff in solid state physics , particularly in an area called metamaterials .
a metamaterial is an artificial material , which manipulates , in this case , electromagnetic radiation , in a way that you couldn 't otherwise .
so , this device here is an invisibility cloak .
it may not seem that , but if you were a microwave , this is how you would view it .
rays of light -- in this case , microwave light -- come in , and they just squish around the cell , and they come back the other side .
now , you could do that with mirrors from one angle .
the cool thing is , this does it from all angles .
metamaterials , unfortunately -- a , it only works on microwave , and b , it doesn 't work all that well yet .
but metamaterials are an incredibly exciting field .
it 's -- you know , today i 'd like to say it 's a zero billion dollar business , but , in fact , it 's negative .
but some day , some day , maybe it 's going to work .
we do a lot of work in biomedical fields .
in this case , we 're working with a major medical foundation to develop inexpensive ways of diagnosing diseases in developing countries .
so , they say the eyes are the windows of the soul -- turns out they 're a window to a whole lot more stuff .
and these happen to be my eyes , by the way .
now , i 'm also very interested in cooking .
while i was at microsoft , i took a leave of absence and went to a chef school in france .
i used to work , also while at microsoft , at a leading restaurant in seattle , so i do a lot of cooking .
i 've been on a team that won the world championship of barbecue .
but barbecue 's interesting , because it 's one of these cult foods like chili , or bouillabaisse .
various parts of the world will have a cult food that people get enormously attached to --
there 's tremendous traditions , there 's secrecy . and i 'm trying to use a very scientific approach .
so , this is my latest cooker , and if this looks more complicated than the nuclear reactor , that 's because it is .
but if you get to play with all those knobs and dials -- and of course , really the controller over there does it all on software -- you can make some terrific ribs .
this is a high-speed centrifuge .
you should all have one in your kitchen , beside your turbochef .
this subjects food to a force about 50,000 times that of normal gravity , and oh boy , does it clarify chicken stock .
you would not believe it !
i perform a series of ghoulish experiments on food -- in this case , trying to calibrate a mathematical model so that one can predict exactly what the internal cooking times are .
it turns out , a , it 's useful , and for a geek like me , it 's fun .
theory is red , black is experiment .
so , i 'm either really good at faking it , or this particular model seems to work .
so , another random thing i do is the search for extraterrestrial intelligence , or seti .
and you may be familiar with the movie " contact , " which sort of popularized that .
it turns out there are real people who go out and search for extraterrestrials in a very scientific way .
in fact , almost everybody in the movie is based on a real character , a real person .
so , the jodie foster character here is actually this woman , jill tarter , and jill has dedicated her life to this .
you know , a lot of people risk their lives in a brief act of heroism , which is kind of cool , but jill has what i call slow heroism .
she is risking her professional life on something that her own calculations show may not work for a thousand years -- may not ever .
so , i like to support people that are risking their lives .
after the movie came out , of course , there was a lot of interest in seti .
my kids saw the movie , and afterwards they came to me and they said , " so , dad , so -- so -- that character -- that 's jill , right ? " i said , " oh , yeah , yeah -- absolutely . "
" and that other person , that 's someone -- " i said , " yes . "
they said , " well , you know that creepy rich guy in the movie ?
is that you ? " i said , " well , you know , it 's just a movie ! come on . " so , the seti institute , with a little bit of help from me , and a lot of help from paul allen and a variety of other people , is building a dedicated radio telescope in hat creek , california , so they can do this seti work .
now , i travel a lot , and i change cell phones a lot , and the one person who always gets updated on all my cell phones and pagers and everything else is jill , because i really don 't want to miss " the call . "
i mean , can you imagine ? e.t. ' s phoning home , and i 'm not , like , there ? you know , horrible !
so , i do a lot of work on dinosaurs .
i 'm known to tedsters as the guy that has sex with dinosaurs .
and i resemble that remark .
i 'm going to talk about a different aspect of dinosaurs , which is the finding of them .
now , to find dinosaurs , you hike around in horrible conditions looking for a dinosaur .
it sounds really dumb , but that 's what it is .
it 's horrible conditions , because wherever you have nice weather , plants grow ,
and you don 't get any erosion , and you don 't see any dinosaurs .
so , you always find dinosaurs in deserts or badlands , areas that have very little plant growth and have flash floods in the spring .
you know , skiers pray for snow ?
paleontologists pray for erosion .
so , you hike around and -- this is after you dig them up , they look like this .
you hike around , you see something like this .
now , this is something i found , so look at it very closely here .
you 've got this bentonite clay , which is -- sort of swells up and expands .
and there 's some stuff poking out . so , you look at that , and you look up close , and you say , " well , gee , that 's kind of interesting . what are all of these pieces ? " well , if you look closely , you can recognize , actually , from the shape , that these are skull fragments .
and then when you look at this , you say , " that 's a tooth .
it 's a big tooth . " it 's about the size of a banana .
it has a big serration on the edge .
this is what tyrannosaurus rex looks like in the ground .
and this is what it 's like to find a tyrannosaurus rex , which i was lucky enough to do a few years ago .
now , this is what tyrannosaurus rex looks like in my living room .
not the same one , actually . this is a cast , which i had bought ,
and then , after buying the cast , i found my own , and i don 't have room for two .
you know .
so , the thing that 's wonderful for me about finding dinosaurs is that it is both an intellectual thing , because you 're trying to reconstruct the environment of millions of years ago .
it 's something that can inform all sorts of science in unexpected ways .
the study of dinosaurs led to the realization that there 's a problem with asteroid impact , for example .
the study of dinosaurs may , literally , one day save the planet .
study of the ancient climate is very important .
in fact , the mesozoic , when dinosaurs lived , had much higher co2 than today , was much warmer than today , and is one of the interesting proof points for the effects of co2 on climate .
but , besides being intellectually and scientifically interesting , it 's also very different than the other things i do , because you get to hike around in the badlands .
this is actually what most dinosaur research looks like .
this is one of my papers : " a pygostyle from a non-avian theropod . "
it 's not as gripping as dinosaur sex , so we 're not going to go into it further .
now , i 'm also really big on photography .
i travel all over the world taking pictures -- some of them good , most of them not .
these days , bits are cheap . unfortunately , that means you 've got to spend more time sorting through them .
here 's a picture i took in the falkland islands of king penguins on a beach .
here 's a picture i took in alaska , a few years ago , of orcas .
i 'd gone up to photograph orcas , and we had looked for a week , and we hadn 't seen a damn orca .
and the last day , the sun comes out , the orcas come , they 're right by the boat . it 's fantastic .
and i get lots of pictures like this .
then , a little bit later , i start getting some pictures like this .
now , to a human audience , i need to explain that if penthouse magazine had a marine mammal edition , this would be the centerfold .
it 's true .
so , there 's more and more activity near the boat , and all of a sudden somebody shouts , " what 's that in the water ? "
i said , " well , i think that 's what you call a free willy . "
there 's a variety of things you can learn from watching whales have sex .
the first thing you learn is the overwhelming importance of hands .
they don 't have them .
i think paul simon is in the audience , and he has -- he may not realize it , but he wrote a song all about whale sex , " slip-slidin ' away . "
that 's kind of what it 's like .
the other interesting thing that i learned about whale sex : they curl their toes too .
so -- where do you go putting all of these disparate pieces together ?
you know , there 's a tremendous amount of wisdom in finding a great thing , passion in life , and focusing all your energy on it , and i 've never been able to do that .
i just -- you know , because , yes , i 'll focus passion on something , but then there will be something else , and then there 's something else again .
and for a long time i fought this , and i thought , " well , gee , i really ought to buckle down . "
and you know , when i was at microsoft , that was so engrossing , and the whole industry was expanding so much , that it did tend to crowd out most of the other things in my life .
but ultimately , i decided that what i really ought to do is not fight being who i am , but embrace it .
and say , " yeah , you know , i -- this whole talk has been a mile wide and an inch deep , but that 's really what works for me . "
and regardless of whether it 's nuclear reactors or metamaterials or whale sex , the common -- or lowest common denominator -- is me .
that 's it , thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / ben _ katchor _ s _ comics _ of _ old _ new _ york.html
in this captivating talk from the ted archive , cartoonist ben katchor reads from his comic strips . these perceptive , surreal stories find the profound hopes and foibles of history preserved in objects like light switches and signs .
new york , art , book , cities , humor
524
ben katchor 's comics of bygone new york
i 'm going to read a few strips .
these are , most of these are from a monthly page i do in and architecture and design magazine called metropolis .
and the first story is called " the faulty switch . "
another beautifully designed new building ruined by the sound of a common wall light switch .
it 's fine during the day when the main rooms are flooded with sunlight .
but at dusk everything changes .
the architect spent hundreds of hours designing the burnished brass switchplates for his new office tower .
and then left it to a contractor to install these 79-cent switches behind them .
we know instinctively where to reach when we enter a dark room .
we automatically throw the little nub of plastic upward .
but the sound we are greeted with , as the room is bathed in the simulated glow of late-afternoon light , recalls to mind a dirty men 's room in the rear of a greek coffee shop .
this sound colors our first impression of any room ;
it can 't be helped .
but where does this sound , commonly described as a click , come from ?
is it simply the byproduct of a crude mechanical action ?
or is it an imitation of one half the set of sounds we make to express disappointment ?
the often dental consonant of no indo-european language .
or is it the amplified sound of a synapse firing in the brain of a cockroach ?
in the 1950s they tried their best to muffle this sound with mercury switches and silent knob controls .
but today these improvements seem somehow inauthentic .
the click is the modern triumphal clarion proceeding us through life , announcing our entry into every lightless room .
the sound made flicking a wall switch off is of a completely different nature .
it has a deep melancholy ring .
children don 't like it .
it 's why they leave lights on around the house .
adults find it comforting .
but wouldn 't it be an easy matter to wire a wall switch so that it triggers the muted horn of a steam ship ?
or the recorded crowing of a rooster ?
or the distant peel of thunder ?
thomas edison went through thousands of unlikely substances before he came upon the right one for the filament of his electric light bulb .
why have we settled so quickly for the sound of its switch ?
that 's the end of that .
the next story is called " in praise of the taxpayer . "
that so many of the city 's most venerable taxpayers have survived yet another commercial building boom , is cause for celebration .
these one or two story structures , designed to yield only enough income to cover the taxes on the land on which they stand , were not meant to be permanent buildings .
yet for one reason or another they have confounded the efforts of developers to be combined into lots suitable for high-rise construction .
although they make no claim to architectural beauty , they are , in their perfect temporariness , a delightful alternative to the large-scale structures that might someday take their place .
the most perfect examples occupy corner lots .
they offer a pleasant respite from the high-density development around them .
a break of light and air , an architectural biding of time .
so buried in signage are these structures ,
that it often takes a moment to distinguish the modern specially constructed taxpayer from its neighbor :
the small commercial building from an earlier century , whose upper floors have been sealed , and whose groundfloor space now functions as a taxpayer .
the few surfaces not covered by signs are often clad in a distinctive , dark green-gray , striated aluminum siding .
take-out sandwich shops , film processing drop-offs , peep-shows and necktie stores .
now these provisional structures have , in some cases , remained standing the temporary building is a triumph of modern industrial organization ,
a healthy sublimation of the urge to build ,
and proof that not every architectural idea need be set in stone .
that 's the end .
and the next story is called , " on the human lap . "
for the ancient egyptians the lap was a platform upon which to place the earthly possessions of the dead -- 30 cubits from foot to knee .
it was not until the 14th century that an italian painter recognized the lap as a grecian temple , upholstered in flesh and cloth .
over the next 200 years we see the infant christ go from a sitting to a standing position on the virgin 's lap ,
and then back again .
every child recapitulates this ascension , straddling one or both legs , sitting sideways , or leaning against the body .
from there , to the modern ventriloquist 's dummy , is but a brief moment in history .
you were late for school again this morning . the ventriloquist must first make us believe that a small boy is sitting on his lap .
the illusion of speech follows incidentally .
what have you got to say for yourself , jimmy ? as adults we admire the lap from a nostalgic distance .
we have fading memories of that provisional temple , erected each time an adult sat down .
on a crowded bus there was always a lap to sit on .
it is children and teenage girls who are most keenly aware of its architectural beauty .
they understand the structural integrity of a deep avuncular lap , as compared to the shaky arrangement of a neurotic niece in high heels .
the relationship between the lap and its owner is direct and intimate .
i envision a 36-story , 450-unit residential high-rise -- a reason to consider the mental health of any architect before granting an important commission .
the bathrooms and kitchens will , of course , have no windows .
the lap of luxury is an architectural construct of childhood , which we seek , in vain , as adults , to employ .
that 's the end .
the next story is called " the haverpiece collection " a nondescript warehouse , visible for a moment from the northbound lanes of the prykushko expressway , serves as the temporary resting place for the haverpiece collection of european dried fruit .
the profound convolutions on the surface of a dried cherry .
the foreboding sheen of an extra-large date .
do you remember wandering as a child through those dark wooden storefront galleries ?
where everything was displayed in poorly labeled roach-proof bins .
pears dried in the form of genital organs .
apricot halves like the ears of cherubim .
in 1962 the unsold stock was purchased by maurice haverpiece , a wealthy prune juice bottler , and consolidated to form the core collection .
as an art form it lies somewhere between still-life painting and plumbing .
upon his death in 1967 , a quarter of the items were sold off for compote to a high-class hotel restaurant .
unsuspecting guests were served stewed turn-of-the-century turkish figs for breakfast .
the rest of the collection remains here , stored in plain brown paper bags until funds can be raised to build a permanent museum and study center .
a shoe made of apricot leather for the daughter of a czar .
that 's the end . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / danny _ hillis _ two _ frontiers _ of _ cancer _ treatment.html
danny hills makes a case for the next frontier of cancer research : proteomics , the study of proteins in the body . as hillis explains it , genomics shows us a list of the ingredients of the body -- while proteomics shows us what those ingredients produce . understanding what 's going on in your body at the protein level may lead to a new understanding of how cancer happens .
talks
1082
danny hillis : understanding cancer through proteomics
i admit that i 'm a little bit nervous here because i 'm going to say some radical things , about how we should think about cancer differently , to an audience that contains a lot of people who know a lot more about cancer than i do .
but i will also contest that i 'm not as nervous as i should be because i 'm pretty sure i 'm right about this .
and that this , in fact , will be the way that we treat cancer in the future .
in order to talk about cancer , i 'm going to actually have to -- let me get the big slide here .
first , i 'm going to try to give you a different perspective of genomics .
i want to put it in perspective of the bigger picture of all the other things that are going on -- and then talk about something you haven 't heard so much about , which is proteomics . having explained those , that will set up for what i think will be a different idea about how to go about treating cancer .
so let me start with genomics .
it is the hot topic .
it is the place where we 're learning the most .
this is the great frontier .
but it has its limitations .
and in particular , you 've probably all heard the analogy that the genome is like the blueprint of your body ,
and if that were only true , it would be great , but it 's not .
it 's like the parts list of your body .
it doesn 't say how things are connected , what causes what and so on .
so if i can make an analogy , let 's say that you were trying to tell the difference between a good restaurant , a healthy restaurant and a sick restaurant , and all you had was the list of ingredients that they had in their larder .
so it might be that , if you went to a french restaurant and you looked through it and you found they only had margarine and they didn 't have butter , you could say , " ah , i see what 's wrong with them . i can make them healthy . "
and there probably are special cases of that .
you could certainly tell the difference between a chinese restaurant and a french restaurant by what they had in a larder .
so the list of ingredients does tell you something , and sometimes it tells you something that 's wrong .
if they have tons of salt , you might guess they 're using too much salt , or something like that .
but it 's limited , because really to know if it 's a healthy restaurant , you need to taste the food , you need to know what goes on in the kitchen , you need the product of all of those ingredients .
so if i look at a person and i look at a person 's genome , it 's the same thing .
the part of the genome that we can read is the list of ingredients .
and so indeed , there are times when we can find ingredients that [ are ] bad .
cystic fibrosis is an example of a disease where you just have a bad ingredient and you have a disease , and we can actually make a direct correspondence between the ingredient and the disease .
but most things , you really have to know what 's going on in the kitchen , because , mostly , sick people used to be healthy people -- they have the same genome .
so the genome really tells you much more about predisposition .
so what you can tell is you can tell the difference between an asian person and a european person by looking at their ingredients list .
but you really for the most part can 't tell the difference between a healthy person and a sick person -- except in some of these special cases .
so why all the big deal about genetics ?
well first of all , it 's because we can read it , which is fantastic .
it is very useful in certain circumstances .
it 's also the great theoretical triumph of biology . it 's the one theory that the biologists ever really got right .
it 's fundamental to darwin and mendel and so on .
and so it 's the one thing where they predicted a theoretical construct .
so mendel had this idea of a gene as an abstract thing ,
and darwin built a whole theory that depended on them existing ,
and then watson and crick actually looked and found one .
so this happens in physics all the time .
you predict a black hole , and you look out the telescope and there it is , just like you said .
but it rarely happens in biology .
so this great triumph -- it 's so good , there 's almost a religious experience in biology .
and darwinian evolution is really the core theory .
so the other reason it 's been very popular is because we can measure it , it 's digital .
and in fact , thanks to kary mullis , you can basically measure your genome in your kitchen with a few extra ingredients .
so for instance , by measuring the genome , we 've learned a lot about how we 're related to other kinds of animals by the closeness of our genome , or how we 're related to each other -- the family tree , or the tree of life .
there 's a huge amount of information about the genetics just by comparing the genetic similarity .
now of course , in medical application , that is very useful because it 's the same kind of information that the doctor gets from your family medical history -- except probably , your genome knows much more about your medical history than you do .
and so by reading the genome , we can find out much more about your family than you probably know .
and so we can discover things that probably you could have found by looking at enough of your relatives , but they may be surprising .
i did the 23andme thing and was very surprised to discover that i am fat and bald .
but sometimes you can learn much more useful things about that .
but mostly what you need to know , to find out if you 're sick , is not your predispositions , but it 's actually what 's going on in your body right now .
so to do that , what you really need to do , you need to look at the things that the genes are producing and what 's happening after the genetics ,
and that 's what proteomics is about .
just like genome mixes the study of all the genes , proteomics is the study of all the proteins .
and the proteins are all of the little things in your body that are signaling between the cells -- actually , the machines that are operating --
that 's where the action is .
basically , a human body is a conversation going on , both within the cells and between the cells , and they 're telling each other to grow and to die ,
and when you 're sick , something 's gone wrong with that conversation .
and so the trick is -- unfortunately , we don 't have an easy way to measure these like we can measure the genome .
so the problem is that measuring -- if you try to measure all the proteins , it 's a very elaborate process .
it requires hundreds of steps , and it takes a long , long time .
and it matters how much of the protein it is .
it could be very significant that a protein changed by 10 percent , so it 's not a nice digital thing like dna .
and basically our problem is somebody 's in the middle of this very long stage , they pause for just a moment , and they leave something in an enzyme for a second , and all of a sudden all the measurements from then on don 't work .
and so then people get very inconsistent results when they do it this way .
people have tried very hard to do this .
i tried this a couple of times and looked at this problem and gave up on it .
i kept getting this call from this oncologist named david agus .
and applied minds gets a lot of calls from people who want help with their problems , and i didn 't think this was a very likely one to call back , so i kept on giving him to the delay list .
and then one day , i get a call from john doerr , bill berkman and al gore on the same day saying return david agus 's phone call .
so i was like , " okay . this guy 's at least resourceful . "
so we started talking , and he said , " i really need a better way to measure proteins . "
i 'm like , " looked at that . been there .
not going to be easy . "
he 's like , " no , no . i really need it .
i mean , i see patients dying every day because we don 't know what 's going on inside of them .
we have to have a window into this . "
and he took me through specific examples of when he really needed it .
and i realized , wow , this would really make a big difference , if we could do it ,
and so i said , " well , let 's look at it . "
applied minds has enough play money that we can go and just work on something without getting anybody 's funding or permission or anything .
so we started playing around with this .
and as we did it , we realized this was the basic problem -- that taking the sip of coffee -- that there were humans doing this complicated process and that what really needed to be done was to automate this process like an assembly line and build robots that would measure proteomics .
and so we did that ,
and working with david , we made a little company called applied proteomics eventually , which makes this robotic assembly line , which , in a very consistent way , measures the protein .
and i 'll show you what that protein measurement looks like .
basically , what we do is we take a drop of blood out of a patient , and we sort out the proteins in the drop of blood according to how much they weigh , how slippery they are , and we arrange them in an image .
and so we can look at literally hundreds of thousands of features at once out of that drop of blood .
and we can take a different one tomorrow , and you will see your proteins tomorrow will be different -- they 'll be different after you eat or after you sleep .
they really tell us what 's going on there .
and so this picture , which looks like a big smudge to you , is actually the thing that got me really thrilled about this and made me feel like we were on the right track .
so if i zoom into that picture , i can just show you what it means .
we sort out the proteins -- from left to right is the weight of the fragments that we 're getting ,
and from top to bottom is how slippery they are .
so we 're zooming in here just to show you a little bit of it .
and so each of these lines represents some signal that we 're getting out of a piece of a protein .
and you can see how the lines occur in these little groups of bump , bump , bump , bump , bump .
and that 's because we 're measuring the weight so precisely that -- carbon comes in different isotopes , so if it has an extra neutron on it , we actually measure it as a different chemical .
so we 're actually measuring each isotope as a different one .
and so that gives you an idea of how exquisitely sensitive this is .
so seeing this picture is sort of like getting to be galileo and looking at the stars and looking through the telescope for the first time , and suddenly you say , " wow , it 's way more complicated than we thought it was . "
but we can see that stuff out there and actually see features of it .
so this is the signature out of which we 're trying to get patterns .
so what we do with this is , for example , we can look at two patients , one that responded to a drug and one that didn 't respond to a drug ,
and ask , " what 's going on differently inside of them ? "
and so we can make these measurements precisely enough that we can overlay two patients and look at the differences .
so here we have alice in green and bob in red .
we overlay them . this is actual data .
and you can see , mostly it overlaps and it 's yellow , but there 's some things that just alice has and some things that just bob has .
and if we find a pattern of things of the responders to the drug , we see that in the blood , they have the condition that allows them to respond to this drug .
we might not even know what this protein is , but we can see it 's a marker for the response to the disease .
so this already , i think , is tremendously useful in all kinds of medicine .
but i think this is actually just the beginning of how we 're going to treat cancer .
so let me move to cancer .
the thing about cancer -- when i got into this , i really knew nothing about it , but working with david agus , i started watching how cancer was actually being treated and went to operations where it was being cut out .
and as i looked at it , to me it didn 't make sense how we were approaching cancer ,
and in order to make sense of it , i had to learn where did this come from .
we 're treating cancer almost like it 's an infectious disease .
we 're treating it as something that got inside of you that we have to kill .
so this is the great paradigm .
this is another case where a theoretical paradigm in biology really worked -- was the germ theory of disease .
so what doctors are mostly trained to do is diagnose -- that is , put you into a category and apply a scientifically proven treatment for that diagnosis --
and that works great for infectious diseases .
so if we put you in the category of you 've got syphilis , we can give you penicillin .
we know that that works .
if you 've got malaria , we give you quinine or some derivative of it .
and so that 's the basic thing doctors are trained to do ,
and it 's miraculous in the case of infectious disease -- how well it works .
and many people in this audience probably wouldn 't be alive if doctors didn 't do this .
but now let 's apply that to systems diseases like cancer .
the problem is that , in cancer , there isn 't something else that 's inside of you .
it 's you ; you 're broken .
that conversation inside of you got mixed up in some way .
so how do we diagnose that conversation ?
well , right now what we do is we divide it by part of the body -- you know , where did it appear ? -- and we put you in different categories according to the part of the body .
and then we do a clinical trial for a drug for lung cancer and one for prostate cancer and one for breast cancer , and we treat these as if they 're separate diseases and that this way of dividing them had something to do with what actually went wrong .
and of course , it really doesn 't have that much to do with what went wrong
because cancer is a failure of the system .
and in fact , i think we 're even wrong when we talk about cancer as a thing .
i think this is the big mistake .
i think cancer should not be a noun .
we should talk about cancering as something we do , not something we have .
and so those tumors , those are symptoms of cancer .
and so your body is probably cancering all the time ,
but there are lots of systems in your body that keep it under control .
and so to give you an idea of an analogy of what i mean by thinking of cancering as a verb ,
imagine we didn 't know anything about plumbing , and the way that we talked about it , we 'd come home and we 'd find a leak in our kitchen and we 'd say , " oh , my house has water . "
we might divide it -- the plumber would say , " well , where 's the water ? "
" well , it 's in the kitchen . " " oh , you must have kitchen water . "
that 's kind of the level at which it is .
" kitchen water ,
well , first of all , we 'll go in there and we 'll mop out a lot of it .
and then we know that if we sprinkle drano around the kitchen , that helps .
whereas living room water , it 's better to do tar on the roof . "
and it sounds silly ,
but that 's basically what we do .
and i 'm not saying you shouldn 't mop up your water if you have cancer ,
but i 'm saying that 's not really the problem ; that 's the symptom of the problem .
what we really need to get at is the process that 's going on , and that 's happening at the level of the proteonomic actions , happening at the level of why is your body not healing itself in the way that it normally does ?
because normally , your body is dealing with this problem all the time .
so your house is dealing with leaks all the time ,
but it 's fixing them . it 's draining them out and so on .
so what we need is to have a causative model of what 's actually going on ,
and proteomics actually gives us the ability to build a model like that .
david got me invited to give a talk at national cancer institute and anna barker was there .
and so i gave this talk and said , " why don 't you guys do this ? "
and anna said , " because nobody within cancer would look at it this way .
but what we 're going to do , is we 're going to create a program for people outside the field of cancer to get together with doctors who really know about cancer and work out different programs of research . "
so david and i applied to this program and created a consortium at usc where we 've got some of the best oncologists in the world and some of the best biologists in the world , from cold spring harbor , stanford , austin -- i won 't even go through and name all the places -- to have a research project that will last for five years where we 're really going to try to build a model of cancer like this .
we 're doing it in mice first ,
and we will kill a lot of mice in the process of doing this , but they will die for a good cause .
and we will actually try to get to the point where we have a predictive model where we can understand , when cancer happens , what 's actually happening in there and which treatment will treat that cancer .
so let me just end with giving you a little picture of what i think cancer treatment will be like in the future .
so i think eventually , once we have one of these models for people , which we 'll get eventually -- i mean , our group won 't get all the way there -- but eventually we 'll have a very good computer model -- sort of like a global climate model for weather .
it has lots of different information about what 's the process going on in this proteomic conversation on many different scales .
and so we will simulate in that model for your particular cancer -- and this also will be for als , or any kind of system neurodegenerative diseases , things like that -- we will simulate specifically you , not just a generic person , but what 's actually going on inside you .
and in that simulation , what we could do is design for you specifically a sequence of treatments , and it might be very gentle treatments , very small amounts of drugs . it might be things like , don 't eat that day , or give them a little chemotherapy , maybe a little radiation .
of course , we 'll do surgery sometimes and so on .
but design a program of treatments specifically for you and help your body guide back to health -- guide your body back to health .
because your body will do most of the work of fixing it if we just sort of prop it up in the ways that are wrong .
we put it in the equivalent of splints .
and so your body basically has lots and lots of mechanisms for fixing cancer ,
and we just have to prop those up in the right way and get them to do the job .
and so i believe that this will be the way that cancer will be treated in the future .
it 's going to require a lot of work , a lot of research .
there will be many teams like our team that work on this .
but i think eventually , we will design for everybody a custom treatment for cancer .
so thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / david _ logan _ on _ tribal _ leadership.html
at tedxusc , david logan talks about the five kinds of tribes that humans naturally form -- in schools , workplaces , even the driver 's license bureau . by understanding our shared tribal tendencies , we can help lead each other to become better individuals .
business , communication , culture , leadership , society
651
david logan on tribal leadership
what we 're really here to talk about is the " how . "
okay , so how exactly do we create this world-shattering , if you will , innovation ?
now , i want to tell you a quick story .
we 'll go back a little more than a year .
in fact , the date -- i 'm curious to know if any of you know what happened on this momentous date ?
it was february 3rd , 2008 .
anyone remember what happened , february 3rd , 2008 ?
super bowl . i heard it over here . it was the date of the super bowl .
and the reason that this date was so momentous is that what my colleagues , john king and halee fischer-wright , and i noticed as we began to debrief various super bowl parties , is that it seemed to us that across the united states , if you will , tribal councils had convened .
and they had discussed things of great national importance . like , " do we like the budweiser commercial ? "
and , " do we like the nachos ? " and , " who is going to win ? "
but they also talked about which candidate they were going to support .
and if you go back in time to february 3rd , it looked like hilary clinton was going to get the democratic nomination .
and there were even some polls that were saying she was going to go all the way .
but when we talked to people , it appeared that a funnel effect had happened in these tribes all across the united states .
now what is a tribe ? a tribe is a group of about 20 -- so kind of more than a team -- 20 to about 150 people .
and it 's within these tribes that all of our work gets done .
but not just work . it 's within these tribes that societies get built , that important things happen .
and so as we surveyed the , if you will , representatives from various tribal councils that met , also known as super bowl parties , we sent the following email off to 40 newspaper editors the following day .
february 4th , we posted it on our website . this was before super tuesday .
we said , " the tribes that we 're in are saying it 's going to be obama . "
now , the reason we knew that was because we spent the previous 10 years studying tribes , studying these naturally occurring groups .
all of you are members of tribes .
in walking around at the break , many of you had met members of your tribe . and you were talking to them .
and many of you were doing what great , if you will , tribal leaders do , which is to find someone who is a member of a tribe , and to find someone else who is another member of a different tribe , and make introductions .
that is in fact what great tribal leaders do .
so here is the bottom line .
if you focus in on a group like this -- this happens to be a usc game -- and you zoom in with one of those super satellite cameras and do magnification factors so you could see individual people , you would in fact see not a single crowd , just like there is not a single crowd here , but you would see these tribes that are then coming together . and from a distance it appears that it 's a single group .
and so people form tribes .
they always have . they always will .
just as fish swim and birds fly , people form tribes . it 's just what we do .
but here 's the rub .
not all tribes are the same ,
and what makes the difference is the culture .
now here is the net out of this .
you 're all a member of tribes .
if you can find a way to take the tribes that you 're in and nudge them forward , along these tribal stages to what we call stage five , which is the top of the mountain .
but we 're going to start with what we call stage one .
now , this is the lowest of the stages .
you don 't want this . okay ?
this is a bit of a difficult image to put up on the screen .
but it 's one that i think we need to learn from .
stage one produces people who do horrible things .
this is the kid who shot up virginia tech .
stage one is a group where people systematically sever relationships from functional tribes , and then pool together with people who think like they do .
stage one is literally the culture of gangs and it is the culture of prisons .
now , again , we don 't often deal with stage one .
and i want to make the point that as members of society , we need to .
it 's not enough to simply write people off .
but let 's move on to stage two .
now , stage one , you 'll notice , says , in effect , " life sucks . "
so , this other book that steve mentioned , that just came out , called " the three laws of performance , " my colleague , steve zaffron and i , argue that as people see the world , so they behave .
well , if people see the world in such a way that life sucks , then their behavior will follow automatically from that .
it will be despairing hostility .
they 'll do whatever it takes to survive , even if that means undermining other people .
now , my birthday is coming up shortly , and my driver 's license expires .
and the reason that that 's relevant is that very soon i will be walking into what we call a stage two tribe ,
which looks like this .
now , am i saying that in every department of motor vehicles across the land , you find a stage two culture ?
no . but in the one near me , where i have to go in just a few days , what i will say when i 'm standing in line is , " how can people be so dumb , and yet live ? "
now , am i saying that there are dumb people working here ?
actually , no , i 'm not .
but i 'm saying the culture makes people dumb .
so in a stage two culture -- and we find these in all sorts of different places -- you find them , in fact , in the best organizations in the world .
you find them in all places in society .
i 've come across them at the organizations that everybody raves about as being best in class .
but here is the point . if you believe and you say to people in your tribe , in effect , " my life sucks .
i mean , if i got to go to tedx usc my life wouldn 't suck . but i don 't . so it does . "
if that 's how you talked , imagine what kind of work would get done .
what kind of innovation would get done ?
the amount of world-changing behavior that would happen ?
in fact it would be basically nil .
now when we go on to stage three : this is the one that hits closest to home for many of us .
because it is in stage three that many of us move .
and we park . and we stay .
stage three says , " i 'm great . and you 're not . "
i 'm great and you 're not .
now imagine having a whole room of people saying , in effect , " i 'm great and you 're not . "
or , " i 'm going to find some way to compete with you and come out on top as a result of that . "
a whole group of people communicating that way , talking that way .
i know this sounds like a joke . three doctors walk into a bar .
but , in this case , three doctors walk into an elevator .
i happened to be in the elevator collecting data for this book .
and one doctor said to the others , " did you see my article in the new england journal of medicine ? "
and the other said , " no . that 's great . congratulations ! "
the next one got kind of a wry smile on his face and said , " well while you were , you know , doing your research , " -- notice the condescending tone -- " while you were off doing your research , i was off doing more surgeries than anyone else in the department of surgery at this institution . " and the third one got the same wry smile and said , " well , while you were off doing your research , and you were off doing your monkey meatball surgery , that eventually we 'll train monkeys to do , or cells or robots , or maybe not even need to do it at all , i was off running the future of the residency program , which is really the future of medicine . "
and they all kind of laughed and they patted him on the back .
and the elevator door opened , and they all walked out .
that is a meeting of a stage three tribe .
now , we find these in places where really smart , successful people show up .
like , oh , i don 't know , tedx usc .
here is the greatest challenge we face in innovation .
it is moving from stage three to stage four .
let 's take a look at a quick video snippet .
this is from a company called zappos , located outside las vegas .
and my question on the other side is just going to be , " what do you think they value ? "
it was not christmas time . there was a christmas tree .
this is their lobby .
employees volunteer time in the advice booth .
notice it looks like something out of a peanuts cartoon .
okay , we 're going through the hallway here at zappos .
this is a call center . notice how it 's decorated .
notice people are applauding for us .
they don 't know who we are and they don 't care . and if they did they probably wouldn 't applaud .
but you 'll notice the level of excitement .
notice , again , how they decorate their office .
now , what 's important to people at zappos , these may not be the things that are important to you .
but they value things like fun . and they value creativity .
one of their stated values is , " be a little bit weird . "
and you 'll notice they are a little bit weird .
so when individuals come together and find something that unites them that 's greater than their individual competence , then something very important happens . the group gels . and it changes from a group of highly motivated but fairly individually-centric people into something larger , into a tribe that becomes aware of its own existence .
stage four tribes can do remarkable things .
but you 'll notice we 're not at the top of the mountain yet .
there is , in fact , another stage .
now , some of you may not recognize the scene that 's up here .
and if you take a look at the headline of stage five , which is " life is great , " this may seem a little incongruous .
this is a scene or snippet from the truth and reconciliation process in south africa for which desmond tutu won the nobel prize .
now think about that . south africa , terrible atrocities had happened in the society .
and people came together focused only on those two values : truth and reconciliation .
there was no road map . no one had ever done anything like this before .
and in this atmosphere , where the only guidance was people 's values and their noble cause , what this group accomplished was historic .
and people , at the time , feared that south africa would end up going the way that rwanda has gone ,
descending into one skirmish after another in a civil war that seems to have no end .
in fact , south africa has not gone down that road . largely because people like desmond tutu set up a stage five process to involve the thousands and perhaps millions of tribes in the country , to bring everyone together .
so , people hear this and they conclude the following , as did we in doing the study . okay , got it . i don 't want to talk stage one .
that 's like , you know , " life sucks . " who wants to talk that way ?
i don 't want to talk like they do at the particular dmv that 's close to where dave lives .
i really don 't want to just say " i 'm great , "
because that kind of sounds narcissistic , and then i won 't have any friends .
saying , " we 're great " -- that sounds pretty good .
but i should really talk stage five , right ? " life is great . "
well , in fact , there are three somewhat counter-intuitive findings that come out of all this .
the first one , if you look at the declaration of independence and actually read it , the phrase that sticks in many of our minds is things about inalienable rights .
i mean , that 's stage five , right ? life is great , oriented only by our values , no other guidance .
in fact , most of the document is written at stage two .
" my life sucks because i live under a tyrant , also known as king george .
we 're great ! who is not great ? england ! "
sorry .
well , what about other great leaders ? what about gandhi ?
what about martin luther king ?
i mean , surely these were just people who preached , " life is great , " right ?
just one little bit of happiness and joy after another .
in fact , martin luther king 's most famous line was at stage three .
he didn 't say " we have a dream . " he said , " i have a dream . "
why did he do that ? because most people are not at stage five .
two percent are at stage one .
about 25 percent are at stage two , saying , in effect , " my life sucks . "
48 percent of working tribes say , these are employed tribes , say , " i 'm great and you 're not . "
and we have to duke it out every day , so we resort to politics .
only about 22 percent of tribes are at stage four , oriented by our values , saying " we 're great .
and our values are beginning to unite us . "
only two percent , only two percent of tribes get to stage five .
and those are the ones that change the world .
so the first little finding from this is that leaders need to be able to talk all the levels so that you can touch every person in society .
but you don 't leave them where you found them . okay ?
tribes can only hear one level above and below where they are .
so we have to have the ability to talk all the levels , to go to where they are .
and then leaders nudge people within their tribes to the next level .
i 'd like to show you some examples of this .
one of the people we interviewed was frank jordan , former mayor of san francisco . before that he was chief of police in san francisco .
and he grew up essentially in stage one .
and you know what changed his life ? it was walking into one of these , a boys and girls club .
now here is what happened to this person who eventually became mayor of san francisco .
he went from being alive and passionate at stage one -- remember , " life sucks , despairing hostility , i will do whatever it takes to survive " -- to walking into a boys and girls club , folding his arms , sitting down in a chair , and saying , " wow . my life really sucks .
i don 't know anybody .
i mean , if i was into boxing , like they were , then my life wouldn 't suck . but i don 't . so it does .
so i 'm going to sit here in my chair and not do anything . "
in fact , that 's progress .
we move people from stage one to stage two by getting them in a new tribe and then , over time , getting them connected .
so , what about moving from stage three to stage four ?
i want to argue that we 're doing that right here .
ted represents a set of values ,
and as we unite around these values , something really interesting begins to emerge .
if you want this experience to live on as something historic , then at the reception tonight i 'd like to encourage you to do something beyond what people normally do and call networking .
which is not just to meet new people and extend your reach , extend your influence , but instead , find someone you don 't know , and find someone else you don 't know , and introduce them .
that 's called a triadic relationship .
see , people who build world-changing tribes do that .
they extend the reach of their tribes by connecting them , not just to myself , so that my following is greater , but i connect people who don 't know each other to something greater than themselves .
and ultimately that adds to their values .
but we 're not done yet . because then how do we go from stage four , which is great , to stage five ?
the story that i like to end with is this . it comes out of a place called the gallup organization .
you know they do polls , right ?
so it 's stage four . we 're great . who is not great ?
pretty much everybody else who does polls .
if gallup releases a poll on the same day that nbc releases a poll , people will pay attention to the gallup poll . okay , we understand that .
so , they were bored .
they wanted to change the world . so here is the question someone asked . " how could we , instead of just polling what asia thinks or what the united states thinks , or who thinks what about obama versus mccain or something like that , what does the entire world think ? "
and they found a way to do the first-ever world poll .
they had people involved who were nobel laureates in economics , who reported being bored .
and suddenly they pulled out sheets of paper and were trying to figure out , " how do we survey the population of sub-saharan africa ?
how do we survey populations that don 't have access to technology , and speak languages we don 't speak , and we don 't know anyone who speaks those languages . because in order to achieve on this great mission , we have to be able to do it .
incidentally , they did pull it off .
and they released the first-ever world poll .
so i 'd like to leave you with these thoughts .
first of all : we all form tribes , all of us .
you 're in tribes here . hopefully you 're extending the reach of the tribes that you have .
but the question on the table is this : what kind of an impact are the tribes that you are in making ?
you 're hearing one presentation after another , often representing a group of people , a tribe , about how they have changed the world .
if you do what we 've talked about , you listen for how people actually communicate in the tribes that you 're in .
and you don 't leave them where they are . you nudge them forward .
you remember to talk all five culture stages .
because we 've got people in all five , around us .
and the question that i 'd like to leave you with is this : will your tribes change the world ?
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / krista _ tippett _ reconnecting _ with _ compassion.html
the term " compassion " -- typically reserved for the saintly or the sappy -- has fallen out of touch with reality . at a special tedprize @ un , journalist krista tippett deconstructs the meaning of compassion through several moving stories , and proposes a new , more attainable definition for the word .
charter for compassion , compassion , faith , religion , science
1074
krista tippett : reconnecting with compassion
we 're here to celebrate compassion .
but compassion , from my vantage point , has a problem .
as essential as it is across our traditions , as real as so many of us know it to be in particular lives , the word " compassion " is hollowed out in our culture , and it is suspect in my field of journalism .
it 's seen as a squishy kumbaya thing ,
or it 's seen as potentially depressing .
karen armstrong has told what i think is an iconic story of giving a speech in holland and , after the fact , the word " compassion " was translated as " pity . "
now compassion , when it enters the news , too often comes in the form of feel-good feature pieces or sidebars about heroic people you could never be like or happy endings or examples of self-sacrifice that would seem to be too good to be true most of the time .
our cultural imagination about compassion has been deadened by idealistic images .
and so what i 'd like to do this morning for the next few minutes is perform a linguistic resurrection .
and i hope you 'll come with me on my basic premise that words matter , that they shape the way we understand ourselves , the way we interpret the world and the way we treat others .
when this country first encountered genuine diversity in the 1960s , we adopted tolerance as the core civic virtue with which we would approach that .
now the word " tolerance , " if you look at it in the dictionary , connotes " allowing , " " indulging " and " enduring . "
in the medical context that it comes from , it is about testing the limits of thriving in an unfavorable environment .
tolerance is not really a lived virtue ; it 's more of a cerebral ascent .
and it 's too cerebral to animate guts and hearts and behavior when the going gets rough .
and the going is pretty rough right now .
i think that without perhaps being able to name it , we are collectively experiencing that we 've come as far as we can with tolerance as our only guiding virtue .
compassion is a worthy successor .
it is organic , across our religious , spiritual and ethical traditions , and yet it transcends them .
compassion is a piece of vocabulary that could change us if we truly let it sink into the standards to which we hold ourselves and others , both in our private and in our civic spaces .
so what is it , three-dimensionally ?
what are its kindred and component parts ?
what 's in its universe of attendant virtues ?
to start simply , i want to say that compassion is kind .
now " kindness " might sound like a very mild word , and it 's prone to its own abundant cliche .
but kindness is an everyday byproduct of all the great virtues .
and it is a most edifying form of instant gratification .
compassion is also curious .
compassion cultivates and practices curiosity .
i love a phrase that was offered me by two young women who are interfaith innovators in los angeles , aziza hasan and malka fenyvesi .
they are working to create a new imagination about shared life among young jews and muslims ,
and as they do that , they cultivate what they call " curiosity without assumptions . "
well that 's going to be a breeding ground for compassion .
compassion can be synonymous with empathy .
it can be joined with the harder work of forgiveness and reconciliation , but it can also express itself in the simple act of presence .
it 's linked to practical virtues like generosity and hospitality and just being there , just showing up .
i think that compassion also is often linked to beauty -- and by that i mean a willingness to see beauty in the other , not just what it is about them that might need helping .
i love it that my muslim conversation partners often speak of beauty as a core moral value .
and in that light , for the religious , compassion also brings us into the territory of mystery -- encouraging us not just to see beauty , but perhaps also to look for the face of god in the moment of suffering , in the face of a stranger , in the face of the vibrant religious other .
i 'm not sure if i can show you what tolerance looks like , but i can show you what compassion looks like -- because it is visible .
when we see it , we recognize it and it changes the way we think about what is doable , what is possible .
it is so important when we 're communicating big ideas -- but especially a big spiritual idea like compassion -- to root it as we present it to others in space and time and flesh and blood -- the color and complexity of life .
and compassion does seek physicality .
i first started to learn this most vividly from matthew sanford .
and i don 't imagine that you will realize this when you look at this photograph of him , but he 's paraplegic .
he 's been paralyzed from the waist down since he was 13 , in a car crash that killed his father and his sister .
matthew 's legs don 't work , and he 'll never walk again , and -- and he does experience this as an " and " rather than a " but " -- and he experiences himself to be healed and whole .
and as a teacher of yoga , he brings that experience to others across the spectrum of ability and disability , health , illness and aging .
he says that he 's just at an extreme end of the spectrum we 're all on .
he 's doing some amazing work now with veterans coming back from iraq and afghanistan .
and matthew has made this remarkable observation that i 'm just going to offer you and let it sit .
i can 't quite explain it , and he can 't either .
but he says that he has yet to experience someone who became more aware of their body , in all its frailty and its grace , without , at the same time , becoming more compassionate towards all of life .
compassion also looks like this .
this is jean vanier .
jean vanier helped found the l 'arche communities , which you can now find all over the world , communities centered around life with people with mental disabilities -- mostly down syndrome .
the communities that jean vanier founded , like jean vanier himself , exude tenderness .
" tender " is another word i would love to spend some time resurrecting .
we spend so much time in this culture being driven and aggressive , and i spend a lot of time being those things too .
and compassion can also have those qualities .
but again and again , lived compassion brings us back to the wisdom of tenderness .
jean vanier says that his work , like the work of other people -- his great , beloved , late friend mother teresa -- is never in the first instance about changing the world ; it 's in the first instance about changing ourselves .
he 's says that what they do with l 'arche is not a solution , but a sign .
compassion is rarely a solution , but it is always a sign of a deeper reality , of deeper human possibilities .
and compassion is unleashed in wider and wider circles by signs and stories , never by statistics and strategies .
we need those things too , but we 're also bumping up against their limits .
and at the same time that we are doing that , i think we are rediscovering the power of story -- that as human beings , we need stories to survive , to flourish , to change .
our traditions have always known this , and that is why they have always cultivated stories at their heart and carried them forward in time for us .
there is , of course , a story behind the key moral longing and commandment of judaism to repair the world -- tikkun olam .
and i 'll never forget hearing that story from dr. rachel naomi remen , who told it to me as her grandfather told it to her , that in the beginning of the creation something happened and the original light of the universe was shattered into countless pieces .
it lodged as shards inside every aspect of the creation .
and that the highest human calling is to look for this light , to point at it when we see it , to gather it up , and in so doing , to repair the world .
now this might sound like a fanciful tale .
some of my fellow journalists might interpret it that way .
rachel naomi remen says this is an important and empowering story for our time , because this story insists that each and every one of us , frail and flawed as we may be , inadequate as we may feel , has exactly what 's needed to help repair the part of the world that we can see and touch .
stories like this , signs like this , are practical tools in a world longing to bring compassion to abundant images of suffering that can otherwise overwhelm us .
rachel naomi remen is actually bringing compassion back to its rightful place alongside science in her field of medicine in the training of new doctors .
and this trend of what rachel naomi remen is doing , how these kinds of virtues are finding a place in the vocabulary of medicine -- the work fred luskin is doing -- i think this is one of the most fascinating developments of the 21st century -- that science , in fact , is taking a virtue like compassion definitively out of the realm of idealism .
this is going to change science , i believe , and it will change religion .
but here 's a face from 20th century science that might surprise you in a discussion about compassion .
we all know about the albert einstein who came up with e = mc2 .
we don 't hear so much about the einstein who invited the african american opera singer , marian anderson , to stay in his home when she came to sing in princeton because the best hotel there was segregated and wouldn 't have her .
we don 't hear about the einstein who used his celebrity to advocate for political prisoners in europe or the scottsboro boys in the american south .
einstein believed deeply that science should transcend national and ethnic divisions .
but he watched physicists and chemists become the purveyors of weapons of mass destruction in the early 20th century .
he once said that science in his generation had become like a razor blade in the hands of a three-year-old .
and einstein foresaw that as we grow more modern and technologically advanced , we need the virtues our traditions carry forward in time more , not less .
he liked to talk about the spiritual geniuses of the ages .
some of his favorites were moses , jesus , buddha , st. francis of assisi , gandhi -- he adored his contemporary , gandhi .
and einstein said -- and i think this is a quote , again , that has not been passed down in his legacy -- that " these kinds of people are geniuses in the art of living , more necessary to the dignity , security and joy of humanity than the discoverers of objective knowledge . "
now invoking einstein might not seem the best way to bring compassion down to earth and make it seem accessible to all the rest of us , but actually it is .
i want to show you the rest of this photograph , because this photograph is analogous to what we do to the word " compassion " in our culture -- we clean it up and we diminish its depths and its grounding in life , which is messy .
so in this photograph you see a mind looking out a window at what might be a cathedral -- it 's not .
this is the full photograph , and you see a middle-aged man wearing a leather jacket , smoking a cigar .
and by the look of that paunch , he hasn 't been doing enough yoga .
we put these two photographs side-by-side on our website , and someone said , " when i look at the first photo , i ask myself , what was he thinking ?
and when i look at the second , i ask , what kind of person was he ? what kind of man is this ? "
well , he was complicated .
he was incredibly compassionate in some of his relationships and terribly inadequate in others .
and it is much harder , often , to be compassionate towards those closest to us , which is another quality in the universe of compassion , on its dark side , that also deserves our serious attention and illumination .
gandhi , too , was a real flawed human being .
so was martin luther king , jr . so was dorothy day .
so was mother teresa .
so are we all .
and i want to say that it is a liberating thing to realize that that is no obstacle to compassion -- following on what fred luskin says -- that these flaws just make us human .
our culture is obsessed with perfection and with hiding problems .
but what a liberating thing to realize that our problems , in fact , are probably our richest sources for rising to this ultimate virtue of compassion , towards bringing compassion towards the suffering and joys of others .
rachel naomi remen is a better doctor because of her life-long struggle with crohn 's disease .
einstein became a humanitarian , not because of his exquisite knowledge of space and time and matter , but because he was a jew as germany grew fascist .
and karen armstrong , i think you would also say that it was some of your very wounding experiences in a religious life that , with a zigzag , have led to the charter for compassion .
compassion can 't be reduced to sainthood any more than it can be reduced to pity .
so i want to propose a final definition of compassion -- this is einstein with paul robeson by the way -- and that would be for us to call compassion a spiritual technology .
now our traditions contain vast wisdom about this , and we need them to mine it for us now .
but compassion is also equally at home in the secular as in the religious .
so i will paraphrase einstein in closing and say that humanity , the future of humanity , needs this technology as much as it needs all the others that have now connected us and set before us the terrifying and wondrous possibility of actually becoming one human race .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / susan _ cain _ the _ power _ of _ introverts.html
in a culture where being social and outgoing are prized above all else , it can be difficult , even shameful , to be an introvert . but , as susan cain argues in this passionate talk , introverts bring extraordinary talents and abilities to the world , and should be encouraged and celebrated .
business , culture , psychology
1377
susan cain : the power of introverts
when i was nine years old i went off to summer camp for the first time .
and my mother packed me a suitcase full of books , which to me seemed like a perfectly natural thing to do .
because in my family , reading was the primary group activity .
and this might sound antisocial to you , but for us it was really just a different way of being social .
you have the animal warmth of your family sitting right next to you , but you are also free to go roaming around the adventureland inside your own mind .
and i had this idea that camp was going to be just like this , but better .
i had a vision of 10 girls sitting in a cabin cozily reading books in their matching nightgowns .
camp was more like a keg party without any alcohol .
and on the very first day our counselor gathered us all together and she taught us a cheer that she said we would be doing every day for the rest of the summer to instill camp spirit .
and it went like this : " r-o-w-d-i-e , that 's the way we spell rowdie . rowdie , rowdie , let 's get rowdie . " yeah .
so i couldn 't figure out for the life of me why we were supposed to be so rowdy , or why we had to spell this word incorrectly .
but i recited a cheer . i recited a cheer along with everybody else .
i did my best .
and i just waited for the time that i could go off and read my books .
but the first time that i took my book out of my suitcase , the coolest girl in the bunk came up to me and she asked me , " why are you being so mellow ? " --
mellow , of course , being the exact opposite of r-o-w-d-i-e .
and then the second time i tried it , the counselor came up to me with a concerned expression on her face and she repeated the point about camp spirit and said we should all work very hard to be outgoing .
and so i put my books away , back in their suitcase , and i put them under my bed , and there they stayed for the rest of the summer .
and i felt kind of guilty about this .
i felt as if the books needed me somehow , and they were calling out to me and i was forsaking them .
but i did forsake them and i didn 't open that suitcase again until i was back home with my family at the end of the summer .
now , i tell you this story about summer camp .
i could have told you 50 others just like it -- all the times that i got the message that somehow my quiet and introverted style of being was not necessarily the right way to go , that i should be trying to pass as more of an extrovert .
and i always sensed deep down that this was wrong and that introverts were pretty excellent just as they were .
but for years i denied this intuition , and so i became a wall street lawyer , of all things , instead of the writer that i had always longed to be -- partly because i needed to prove to myself that i could be bold and assertive too .
and i was always going off to crowded bars when i really would have preferred to just have a nice dinner with friends .
and i made these self-negating choices so reflexively , that i wasn 't even aware that i was making them .
now this is what many introverts do , and it 's our loss for sure , but it is also our colleagues ' loss and our communities ' loss .
and at the risk of sounding grandiose , it is the world 's loss .
because when it comes to creativity and to leadership , we need introverts doing what they do best .
a third to a half of the population are introverts -- a third to a half .
so that 's one out of every two or three people you know .
so even if you 're an extrovert yourself , i 'm talking about your coworkers and your spouses and your children and the person sitting next to you right now -- all of them subject to this bias that is pretty deep and real in our society .
we all internalize it from a very early age without even having a language for what we 're doing .
now to see the bias clearly you need to understand what introversion is .
it 's different from being shy .
shyness is about fear of social judgment .
introversion is more about , how do you respond to stimulation , including social stimulation .
so extroverts really crave large amounts of stimulation , whereas introverts feel at their most alive and their most switched-on and their most capable when they 're in quieter , more low-key environments .
not all the time -- these things aren 't absolute -- but a lot of the time .
so the key then to maximizing our talents is for us all to put ourselves in the zone of stimulation that is right for us .
but now here 's where the bias comes in .
our most important institutions , our schools and our workplaces , they are designed mostly for extroverts and for extroverts ' need for lots of stimulation .
and also we have this belief system right now that i call the new groupthink , which holds that all creativity and all productivity comes from a very oddly gregarious place .
so if you picture the typical classroom nowadays : when i was going to school , we sat in rows .
we sat in rows of desks like this , and we did most of our work pretty autonomously .
but nowadays , your typical classroom has pods of desks -- four or five or six or seven kids all facing each other .
and kids are working in countless group assignments .
even in subjects like math and creative writing , which you think would depend on solo flights of thought , kids are now expected to act as committee members .
and for the kids who prefer to go off by themselves or just to work alone , those kids are seen as outliers often or , worse , as problem cases .
and the vast majority of teachers reports believing that the ideal student is an extrovert as opposed to an introvert , even though introverts actually get better grades and are more knowledgeable , according to research .
okay , same thing is true in our workplaces .
now , most of us work in open plan offices , without walls , where we are subject to the constant noise and gaze of our coworkers .
and when it comes to leadership , introverts are routinely passed over for leadership positions , even though introverts tend to be very careful , much less likely to take outsize risks -- which is something we might all favor nowadays .
and interesting research by adam grant at the wharton school has found that introverted leaders often deliver better outcomes than extroverts do , because when they are managing proactive employees , they 're much more likely to let those employees run with their ideas , whereas an extrovert can , quite unwittingly , get so excited about things that they 're putting their own stamp on things , and other people 's ideas might not as easily then bubble up to the surface .
now in fact , some of our transformative leaders in history have been introverts .
i 'll give you some examples .
eleanor roosevelt , rosa parks , gandhi -- all these peopled described themselves as quiet and soft-spoken and even shy .
and they all took the spotlight , even though every bone in their bodies was telling them not to .
and this turns out to have a special power all its own , because people could feel that these leaders were at the helm , not because they enjoyed directing others and not out of the pleasure of being looked at ; they were there because they had no choice , because they were driven to do what they thought was right .
now i think at this point it 's important for me to say that i actually love extroverts .
i always like to say some of my best friends are extroverts , including my beloved husband .
and we all fall at different points , of course , along the introvert / extrovert spectrum .
even carl jung , the psychologist who first popularized these terms , said that there 's no such thing as a pure introvert or a pure extrovert .
he said that such a man would be in a lunatic asylum , if he existed at all .
and some people fall smack in the middle of the introvert / extrovert spectrum , and we call these people ambiverts .
and i often think that they have the best of all worlds .
but many of us do recognize ourselves as one type or the other .
and what i 'm saying is that culturally we need a much better balance .
we need more of a yin and yang between these two types .
this is especially important when it comes to creativity and to productivity , because when psychologists look at the lives of the most creative people , what they find are people who are very good at exchanging ideas and advancing ideas , but who also have a serious streak of introversion in them .
and this is because solitude is a crucial ingredient often to creativity .
so darwin , he took long walks alone in the woods and emphatically turned down dinner party invitations .
theodor geisel , better known as dr. seuss , he dreamed up many of his amazing creations in a lonely bell tower office that he had in the back of his house in la jolla , california .
and he was actually afraid to meet the young children who read his books for fear that they were expecting him this kind of jolly santa claus-like figure and would be disappointed with his more reserved persona .
steve wozniak invented the first apple computer sitting alone in his cubical in hewlett-packard where he was working at the time .
and he says that he never would have become such an expert in the first place had he not been too introverted to leave the house when he was growing up .
now of course , this does not mean that we should all stop collaborating -- and case in point , is steve wozniak famously coming together with steve jobs to start apple computer -- but it does mean that solitude matters and that for some people it is the air that they breathe .
and in fact , we have known for centuries about the transcendent power of solitude .
it 's only recently that we 've strangely begun to forget it .
if you look at most of the world 's major religions , you will find seekers -- moses , jesus , buddha , muhammad --
seekers who are going off by themselves alone to the wilderness where they then have profound epiphanies and revelations that they then bring back to the rest of the community .
so no wilderness , no revelations .
this is no surprise though if you look at the insights of contemporary psychology .
it turns out that we can 't even be in a group of people without instinctively mirroring , mimicking their opinions .
even about seemingly personal and visceral things like who you 're attracted to , you will start aping the beliefs of the people around you without even realizing that that 's what you 're doing .
and groups famously follow the opinions of the most dominant or charismatic person in the room , even though there 's zero correlation between being the best talker and having the best ideas -- i mean zero .
so ...
you might be following the person with the best ideas , but you might not .
and do you really want to leave it up to chance ?
much better for everybody to go off by themselves , generate their own ideas freed from the distortions of group dynamics , and then come together as a team to talk them through in a well-managed environment and take it from there .
now if all this is true , then why are we getting it so wrong ?
why are we setting up our schools this way and our workplaces ?
and why are we making these introverts feel so guilty about wanting to just go off by themselves some of the time ?
one answer lies deep in our cultural history .
western societies , and in particular the u.s. , have always favored the man of action over the man of contemplation and " man " of contemplation .
but in america 's early days , we lived in what historians call a culture of character , where we still , at that point , valued people for their inner selves and their moral rectitude .
and if you look at the self-help books from this era , they all had titles with things like " character , the grandest thing in the world . "
and they featured role models like abraham lincoln who was praised for being modest and unassuming .
ralph waldo emerson called him " a man who does not offend by superiority . "
but then we hit the 20th century and we entered a new culture that historians call the culture of personality .
what happened is we had evolved an agricultural economy to a world of big business .
and so suddenly people are moving from small towns to the cities .
and instead of working alongside people they 've known all their lives , now they are having to prove themselves in a crowd of strangers .
so , quite understandably , qualities like magnetism and charisma suddenly come to seem really important .
and sure enough , the self-help books change to meet these new needs and they start to have names like " how to win friends and influence people . "
and they feature as their role models really great salesmen .
so that 's the world we 're living in today .
that 's our cultural inheritance .
now none of this is to say that social skills are unimportant , and i 'm also not calling for the abolishing of teamwork at all .
the same religions who send their sages off to lonely mountain tops also teach us love and trust .
and the problems that we are facing today in fields like science and in economics are so vast and so complex that we are going to need armies of people coming together to solve them working together .
but i am saying that the more freedom that we give introverts to be themselves , the more likely that they are to come up with their own unique solutions to these problems .
so now i 'd like to share with you what 's in my suitcase today .
guess what ?
books .
i have a suitcase full of books .
here 's margaret atwood , " cat 's eye . "
here 's a novel by milan kundera .
and here 's " the guide for the perplexed " by maimonides .
but these are not exactly my books .
i brought these books with me because they were written by my grandfather 's favorite authors .
my grandfather was a rabbi and he was a widower who lived alone in a small apartment in brooklyn that was my favorite place in the world when i was growing up , partly because it was filled with his very gentle , very courtly presence and partly because it was filled with books .
i mean literally every table , every chair in this apartment had yielded its original function to now serve as a surface for swaying stacks of books .
just like the rest of my family , my grandfather 's favorite thing to do in the whole world was to read .
but he also loved his congregation , and you could feel this love in the sermons that he gave every week for the 62 years that he was a rabbi .
he would takes the fruits of each week 's reading and he would weave these intricate tapestries of ancient and humanist thought .
and people would come from all over to hear him speak .
but here 's the thing about my grandfather .
underneath this ceremonial role , he was really modest and really introverted -- so much so that when he delivered these sermons , he had trouble making eye contact with the very same congregation that he had been speaking to for 62 years .
and even away from the podium , when you called him to say hello , he would often end the conversation prematurely for fear that he was taking up too much of your time .
but when he died at the age of 94 , the police had to close down the streets of his neighborhood to accommodate the crowd of people who came out to mourn him .
and so these days i try to learn from my grandfather 's example in my own way .
so i just published a book about introversion , and it took me about seven years to write .
and for me , that seven years was like total bliss , because i was reading , i was writing , i was thinking , i was researching .
it was my version of my grandfather 's hours of the day alone in his library .
but now all of a sudden my job is very different , and my job is to be out here talking about it , talking about introversion .
and that 's a lot harder for me , because as honored as i am to be here with all of you right now , this is not my natural milieu .
so i prepared for moments like these as best i could .
i spent the last year practicing public speaking every chance i could get .
and i call this my " year of speaking dangerously . "
and that actually helped a lot .
but i 'll tell you , what helps even more is my sense , my belief , my hope that when it comes to our attitudes to introversion and to quiet and to solitude , we truly are poised on the brink on dramatic change .
i mean , we are .
and so i am going to leave you now with three calls for action for those who share this vision .
number one : stop the madness for constant group work .
just stop it .
thank you .
and i want to be clear about what i 'm saying , because i deeply believe our offices should be encouraging casual , chatty cafe-style types of interactions -- you know , the kind where people come together and serendipitously have an exchange of ideas .
that is great .
it 's great for introverts and it 's great for extroverts .
but we need much more privacy and much more freedom and much more autonomy at work .
school , same thing .
we need to be teaching kids to work together , for sure , but we also need to be teaching them how to work on their own .
this is especially important for extroverted children too .
they need to work on their own because that is where deep thought comes from in part .
okay , number two : go to the wilderness .
be like buddha , have your own revelations .
i 'm not saying that we all have to now go off and build our own cabins in the woods and never talk to each other again , but i am saying that we could all stand to unplug and get inside our own heads a little more often .
number three : take a good look at what 's inside your own suitcase and why you put it there .
so extroverts , maybe your suitcases are also full of books .
or maybe they 're full of champagne glasses or skydiving equipment .
whatever it is , i hope you take these things out every chance you get and grace us with your energy and your joy .
but introverts , you being you , you probably have the impulse to guard very carefully what 's inside your own suitcase .
and that 's okay .
but occasionally , just occasionally , i hope you will open up your suitcases for other people to see , because the world needs you and it needs the things you carry .
so i wish you the best of all possible journeys and the courage to speak softly .
thank you very much .
thank you . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / hector _ ruiz _ on _ connecting _ the _ world.html
hector ruiz , the executive chair of amd , wants to give internet access to everyone . in this talk , he shares his extraordinary life story and describes amd 's 50x15 initiative that calls for connecting 50 percent of the world by 2015 .
africa , education , global issues , philanthropy , technology
255
hector ruiz on connecting the world
you know , one of the things that i 'd like to say upfront is that i 'm really here by accident .
and what i mean -- not at ted -- that i 'm -- at this point in my life , truly my set of circumstances i would truly consider an accident .
but what i 'd like to talk to you about today is perhaps a way in which we could use technology to make those accidents happen often .
because i really think , when i look back at how i actually ended up in this accident , technology played a big role in that .
so , what i 'd like to do today is tell you a little bit about myself , because i 'd like to put in context what i 'm going to tell you .
and i think you will see why the two greatest passions in my life today are children and education .
and once i put that in context , i 'd like to tell you a little bit about technology : why i believe technology is a tremendous enabler ; a very powerful tool to help address some of these challenges .
then , about the initiative that chris mentioned , that we decided to launch at amd that we call 50x15 . and then i 'll come back to the beginning , and tell you a little bit more -- hopefully convince you -- that i believe that in today 's world , it is really important for business leaders not only to have an idea of what their business is all about , but to have a passion for something that is meaningful .
so , with that in mind , first of all let me tell you , i 'm one of five children . i 'm the oldest , the other four are women .
so i grew up in a family of women .
i learned a lot about how to deal with that part of the world .
and , as you can imagine , if you can picture this : i was born in a very small village in mexico ,
in , unfortunately , very poor surroundings , and my parents did not have a college education .
but i was fortunate to be able to have one , and so were my four sisters .
that kind of tells you a little bit of an idea of the emphasis that my parents placed on education . my parents were fanatics about learning , and i 'll come back to that a little bit later .
but one of the things that exposed me early to learning , and a tremendous curiosity that was instilled in me as a child , was through a technology which is on the screen -- is a victrola .
my father found that in a junkyard , and was able to repair it and make it work . and somehow -- to this day , i frankly don 't know how he was so aware of what was going on in the world -- but , by inviting me to sit down with him when i was only a few years old , and playing records in this victrola by mozart , and he would tell me how mozart was the most romantic of all the classic composers ever , and how claire de lune , which was one of his favorites , was a real exposure to me to classical music .
he explained to me about johann strauss , and how he created the waltzes that became so famous in the world .
and would tell me a little bit about history too , when he 'd play the 1812 overture by tchaikovsky on this little victrola , and he would tell me about russia and all the things that were happening in russia at those times and why this music , in some way , represented a little bit of that history .
and even as a child , he was able to instill in me a lot of curiosity .
and perhaps to you this product may not look like high tech , but if you can imagine the time when this occurred -- it was in the mid ' 40s -- this was really , in his view , a pretty piece of high tech .
well , one of the things that is really critical to try to distill from that experience is that in addition to that , people ask me and say , " well , how did your parents treat you when you were a child ? "
and i always said that they were really tough on me .
and not tough in the sense that most people think of , where your parents yell at you or hit you or whatever . they were tough in the sense that , as i grew up , both my mother and father would always say to me , it 's really important that you always remember two things .
first of all , when you go to bed at night , you 've got to look back on the day and make sure that you felt the day was a day which you contributed something , and that you did everything you could to do it the best way you could .
and the second thing they said : and we trust you , that no matter where you are or where you go , you will always do the right thing .
now , i don 't know how many of you have ever done that with your kids , but if you do , please trust me , it 's the most pressure you can put on a child , to say -- -- we trust you that you will always do the right thing .
when i was out with my friends drinking beer , i always was very aware of those words --
-- and very careful . one of the things that has happened with technology is that it can only be helpful if it is useful , of course , but it can only be helpful too if it 's accessible , and in today 's world , being useful , affordable and accessible is not necessarily what happens in a lot of the technology that is done today .
so , one of our passions in our company , and now one of my personal passions , is to be able to really work hard at making the technology useful , accessible and affordable .
and to me , that is very , very critical .
now , technology has changed a lot since the victrola days . you know , we now have , of course , incredibly powerful computers .
a tremendous thing that people refer to as a killer app is called the internet .
although frankly speaking , we don 't believe the internet is the killer app .
what we believe is that the internet , frankly , is a connection of people and ideas .
the internet happens to be just the medium in which those people and ideas get connected .
and the power of connecting people and ideas can be pretty awesome .
and so , we believe that through all the changes that have occurred , that we 're faced today with a tremendous opportunity .
if we can connect people and ideas more intensely -- and although you 've seen a plethora and a myriad of products that have come to the market today , the key to me is how many of these products are able to provide people connectivity , in a useful way ,
accessibility , in an easy manner , and also affordability , that regardless of the economic status that a person could have , that they could have the opportunity to afford this technology .
so , when you look at that , we said , well , we would like to , then , enable that a little bit . we would like to create an initiative .
and a couple of years ago at amd , we came up with this idea of saying , what if we create this initiative we call 50x15 , where we are going to aim , that by the year 2015 , half of the world will be connected to the internet so that people and ideas can get connected .
we knew we couldn 't do it by ourselves , and by no means did we ever intend to imply that we at amd could do it alone .
we always felt that this was something that could be done through partnerships with governments , industry , educational institutions , a myriad of other companies and , frankly , even competitors .
so , it is really a rather lofty initiative , if you want to think that way , but we felt that we had to put a real stake up in the years ahead , that was bold enough and courageous enough that it would force us all to think of ways to do things differently .
and i 'll come back to that in a minute , because i think the results so far have been remarkable , and i can only anticipate and get real excited about what i think is going to happen in the next eight years , while we get to the 2015 initiative .
where are we today ?
that 's year by year . this comes from our friends at gapminder.com .
those of you who 've never looked at their website , you should look at it . it 's really impressive . and you can see how the internet penetration has changed over the years .
and so when we gave ourselves this scorecard to say well , where are we related to our goal towards 2015 ,
the thing that becomes apparent is three pieces .
one is the western world , defined mostly by western europe and the united states , has made an awful lot of progress .
the connectivity in these parts of the world are really truly phenomenal and continue to increase .
as a matter of fact , we think reaching 100 percent is very doable , even before the 2015 timeframe . in other parts of emerging countries , such as india and china , the progress has been good --
has been solid , has been good . but in places that are not as developed , places like africa , latin america and other places in the world , the progress has been rather slow . as a matter of fact , i was just recently visiting south africa . i had the opportunity to have a discussion with president mbeki , and one of the things that we talked about is , what is it that 's keeping this connectivity goal from moving ahead faster ?
and one of the reasons is , in south africa , it costs 100 dollars a month to have a broadband connectivity .
it is impossible , even in the united states , for that cost , to be able to enable the connectivity that we 're all trying to reach .
so , we talked about ways in which perhaps one could partner to be able to bring the cost of this technology down .
so , when you look at this chart , you look at the very last -- it 's a logarithmic chart on a horizontal scale --
you look at the very end : we 've got quite a long way to go to get to the 2015 goal of 50 percent .
but we 're excited in our company ; we 're motivated . we really think it 's a phenomenal driver of things , to force us to do things differently , and we look forward to being able to actually , working with so many partners around the world , to be able to reach that goal .
now , one of the things i 'd like to explain [ about ] 50x15 , which i think is really critical , is that it is not a charity .
it is actually a business venture .
let 's take a small segment of this , of this unconnected world , and call it the education market .
when you look at elementary-school children , we have hundreds and hundreds of millions of children around the world that could benefit tremendously from being able to be connected to the internet .
therefore , when we see that , we see an opportunity to have a business that addresses the need of that segment .
and when we embarked in this initiative , from the very beginning we said it very clearly : this is not a charity .
this is really a business venture , one that addresses a very challenging segment of the market .
because what we have learned in the last three years is that this segment of the market , whether it 's education or under-developed nations , either way , it 's a segment that demands incredibly high quality , incredibly high reliability , tremendous low cost and access , and a lot of challenges that frankly , without actually doing it , it would be very difficult to understand , and i 'll explain that in just a minute .
it is an initiative that is focused on simple , accessible and human-centric solutions .
what we mean by that is , you know , frankly , the pc was invented in 1980 , roughly speaking more or less , and for 20-odd years , it hasn 't changed .
it is still , in most places , a gray or black box , and it looks the same .
and frankly -- and i know that sometimes i offend some of my customers when i say this , but i truly mean it -- if you could take the name of the computer off the top of it , it would be very difficult to judge who made it , because they 're all highly commoditized but they 're all different .
so , there has not been a human-centric approach to addressing this segment of the market , so we really believe it is critical to think of it .
it reminded me a lot of the talk we heard this morning , about this operating room machinery that was designed specifically for africa .
we 're talking about something very similar here .
and it has to be based on a geo-sensitive approach .
what i mean by that is that in some parts of the world , the government plays a key role in the development of technology .
in other parts , it doesn 't .
in other parts of the world , you have an infrastructure that allows for manufacturing to take place .
in other parts , it doesn 't . and then we have to be sensitive about how this technology can be developed and put into action in those regions .
and the last piece , which is really important -- and this is an opinion that we have , not shared by many , this is one where we seem to stand alone , on this one --
is that we really believe that the greatest success of this initiative can come by fostering local , integrated , end-to-end ecosystems .
what i mean by that , and let me use this example , the country of south africa , because i was just there , therefore i 'm a little bit familiar with some of the challenges they have .
it 's a country of 45 million people . it 's an economy that 's emerging .
it 's beginning to grow tremendously .
they have an objective to lowering the cost of connectivity .
they have a computer company that makes computers in south africa .
they 're developing a software-training environment in their universities .
what a place , what an ideal place to create an ecosystem that could build the hardware and the software needed for their schools . and to my surprise , i learned in south africa they have 18 dialects , i always thought they only had two -- english and afrikaans -- but it turns out they have 18 dialects .
and to be able to meet the needs of this rather complex educational system , it could only be done from inside .
i don 't think this segment of the market can be addressed by companies parachuting from another place of the world , and just dumping product and selling into the markets .
so , we believe that in those regions of the world where the population is large , and there 's an infrastructure that can provide it , that a local , integrated , end-to-end system is really critical for its success .
this is a picture of a classroom that we outfitted with computers in mexico , in my home country .
this particular classroom happens to be in the state of michoacan .
those of you that might be familiar with mexico -- michoacan is a very colorful state .
children dress with very colorful , colorful clothes , and it is incredible to see the power that this has in the hands of kids , in a computer . and i have to tell you that it 's so easy to appreciate the impact that access to technology and connectivity can have in the lives and education of these kids .
we just recently opened a learning laboratory in a school in the west cape in south africa , in a school that 's called nelson mandela school ,
and when you see the faces and activities of these children being able to access computers , it 's just phenomenal .
and recently , they 've written us letters , telling us how excited they are about the impact that this has had on their lives , on their educational dreams , on their capabilities , and it 's just phenomenal .
we have now deployed 30 different technologists in 18 different countries , and we have been able to connect millions of people in an effort to continue to learn what this particular segment of the market needs and demands .
and i have to tell you that although millions doesn 't sound like a lot in terms of the billions that need to be connected , it 's a start . and we are learning a lot .
and we 're learning a tremendous amount about what we believe this segment needs to be able to be effective .
one example of this has been the one laptop per child .
some of you are familiar with this .
this is a partnership between mit and a group of companies -- google is involved , red hat -- and amd is a key player .
the electronics behind the one laptop per child are based on amd technology ; it 's a microprocessor .
but to give you an idea how creative this group of people can be , one of the objectives of the one laptop per child is to be able to achieve a 10-hour battery life .
because it was felt that a school day would last at least eight hours , and you wanted the child to have the ability to use the laptop for at least one full day without having to recharge it .
the engineers have done a phenomenal amount of innovation on this part , and battery life on this product is now 15 hours --
just through a lot of innovative work people have done because they 're passionate and motivated to be able to do this .
we expect this to be deployed towards the end of this year , and we 're very excited at the opportunities that this is going to offer in the field of education .
it 's a highly focused product aimed at strictly the education market ,
not only in the developing countries , but actually in the developed regions as well , because there are parts of the united states where this can have also a huge impact on the ability to make education more fun and more efficient .
we also have partnered with ted in this project , with architecture for humanity , and along with the ted prize winner cameron sinclair , we 're having a contest that we have issued to the architectural community to come up with the best design for a computer lab for an emerging region .
and we 're really thrilled about the opportunity to be part of this , and can 't wait to see what comes out of this exciting , exciting activity .
let me come back to the beginning , to end this presentation .
i 'll tell you that one of the things that i feel is really critical for us in industry , in business ,
is to be able to be passionate about solving these problems .
i don 't think it 's enough to be able to put them on a spreadsheet , and look at numbers and say , yes , that 's a good business .
i really believe that you have to have a passion for it .
and one of the things that i learned , too , from my parents -- and i 'll give you a little anecdote -- especially from my father .
and it took me a while to understand it , but he said to me , when i went to college , he said , " you 're the first person in the family to go to college .
and it 's really important you understand that for civilization to make progress , each generation has to do better than the last one .
and therefore , this is your opportunity to do better than my generation . "
frankly , i don 't know that i really understood what he told me at the time . i was eager to go off to college , and go find girls , and study , and girls , and study , but then i finished college and i fell in love . i graduated . i decided to get married .
and on my wedding day , my father came to me again and said , " you know , i 'm going to remind you again , that each generation has to do better than the last one .
you have to be a better husband than i was , because that 's how you make progress . " and now he began to make sense .
because i knew what a great husband he was , and now he was once again beginning to put pressure on me , like he did when i was a little kid . and then a few years later , i had a child , my first child , and again , my father comes to the hospital , and we 're looking at the glass , and see all the children on the other side , and he said , " i 've got to remind you again , that for each generation to do better ,
you 're going to have to be a better father than i was . "
that 's when it dawned on me the tremendous challenge that he was placing on me , because he was a great father .
but the key is that he instilled in me a passion to really get up every day in the morning and want to do better ,
to really get up and think that my role in life is not just to be the ceo of a fortune 500 company .
it 's got to be that someday i can look back , and this place is truly better through some small contribution that perhaps each of us could make .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / rick _ warren _ on _ a _ life _ of _ purpose.html
pastor rick warren , author of < em > the purpose-driven life , < / em > reflects on his own crisis of purpose in the wake of his book 's wild success . he explains his belief that god 's intention is for each of us to use our talents and influence to do good .
christianity , god , culture , happiness , leadership , philanthropy , religion
71
rick warren on a life of purpose
i 'm often asked , what surprises you about the book ?
and i said , that i got to write it .
i would have never imagined that , not in my wildest dreams did i think -- i don 't even consider myself to be an author .
and i 'm often asked , why do you think so many people have read this ?
this thing 's selling still about a million copies a month .
and i think it 's because spiritual emptiness is a universal disease .
i think inside at some point , we put our heads down on the pillow and we go , " there 's got to be more to life than this . "
get up in the morning , go to work , come home and watch tv , go to bed , get up in the morning , go to work , come home , watch tv , go to bed , go to parties on weekends .
a lot of people say , " i 'm living . " no , you 're not living -- that 's just existing .
just existing .
i really think that 's there 's this inner desire .
i do believe what chris said . i believe that you 're not an accident .
your parents may not have planned you , but i believe god did .
i think there are accidental parents ; there 's no doubt about that .
i don 't think there are accidental kids .
and i think you matter .
i think you matter to god ; i think you matter to history ; i think you matter to this universe .
and i think that the difference between what i call the survival level of living , the success level of living and the significant level of living is , do you figure out , what on earth am i here for ?
i meet a lot of people who are very smart , and say , " but why can 't i figure out my problems ? "
and i meet a lot of people who are very successful , who say , " why don 't i feel more fulfilled ?
why do i feel like a fake ?
why do i feel like i 've got to pretend that i 'm more than i really am ? "
i think that comes down to this issue of meaning , of significance , of purpose .
i think it comes down to this issue of : why am i here ? what am i here for ? where am i going ?
these are not religious issues -- they 're human issues .
i wanted to tell michael before he spoke that i really appreciate what he does , because it makes my life work a whole lot easier .
as a pastor , i do see a lot of kooks .
and i have learned that there are kooks in every area of life .
religion doesn 't have a monopoly on that , but there are plenty of religious kooks .
there are secular kooks ; there are smart kooks , dumb kooks .
there are people -- a lady came up to me the other day , and she had a white piece of paper -- michael , you 'll like this one -- and she said , " what do you see in it ? "
and i looked at it and i said , " oh , i don 't see anything . "
and she goes , " well , i see jesus , " and started crying and left .
i 'm going , ok , you know . fine .
um .
when the book became the best-selling book in the world for the last three years , i kind of had my little crisis .
and that was : what is the purpose of this ?
because it brought in enormous amounts of money .
when you write the best-selling book in the world , it 's tons and tons of money --
and it brought in a lot of attention , neither of which i wanted .
when i started saddleback church , i was 25 years old .
i started it with one other family in 1980 .
and i decided that i was never going to go on tv , because i didn 't want to be a celebrity , i didn 't want to be a , quote , " evangelist , televangelist " -- that 's not my thing .
and all of a sudden , it brought a lot of money and a lot of attention .
i don 't think -- now , this is a worldview , and i will tell you , everybody 's got a worldview .
everybody 's betting their life on something .
you 're betting your life on something -- you just better know why you 're betting what you 're betting on .
so , everybody 's betting their life on something , and when i , you know , made a bet , i happened to believe that jesus was who he said he was .
but everybody 's got -- and i believe in a pluralistic society -- everybody 's betting on something .
and when i started the church , you know , i had no plans to do what it 's doing now .
and then when i wrote this book , and all of a sudden it just took off , then i started saying , now , what 's the purpose of this ?
because as i started to say , i don 't think you 're given money or fame for your own ego , ever .
i just don 't believe that .
and when you write a book that the first sentence of the book is , " it 's not about you , " then , when all of a sudden it becomes the best-selling book in history , you got to figure , well , i guess it 's not about me .
that 's kind of a no-brainer .
so , what is it for ?
and i began to think about what i call the " stewardship of affluence " and the " stewardship of influence . "
so i believe , essentially , that leadership is stewardship .
that if you are a leader in any area -- in business , in politics , in sports , in art , in academics , in any area -- you don 't own it ; you are a steward of it .
for instance , that 's why i believe in protecting the environment .
this is not my planet . it wasn 't mine before i was born .
it 's not going to be mine after i die .
i 'm just here for 80 years and then that 's it .
i was debating the other day on a talk show , and the guy was challenging me and go , " what 's a pastor doing on protecting the environment ? "
and i asked this guy , i said , " well , do you believe that human beings are responsible to make the world a little bit better place for the next generation ?
do you think we have a stewardship here , to take the environment seriously ? "
and he said , " no . "
i said , " oh , you don 't ? " i said , " let me make this clear again .
do you believe that as human beings -- i 'm not talking about religion -- do you believe that as human beings , it is our responsibility to take care of this planet and make it just a little bit better for the next generation ? "
and he said , " no .
not any more than any other species . "
when he said the word " species , " he was revealing his worldview .
and he was saying , " i 'm no more responsible to take care of this environment than a duck is . "
well now , i know a lot of times we act like ducks , but you 're not a duck .
you 're not a duck .
and you are responsible -- that 's my worldview .
and so , you need to understand what your worldview is .
the problem is most people never really think it through .
they never really codify it or qualify it or quantify it , and say , " this is what i believe in .
this is why i believe what i believe . "
i don 't personally have enough faith to be an atheist .
but you may , you may .
your worldview , though , does determine everything else in your life , because it determines your decisions ; it determines your relationships ; it determines your level of confidence .
it determines , really , everything in your life .
what we believe , obviously -- and you know this -- determines our behavior , and our behavior determines what we become in life .
so all of this money started pouring in , and all of this fame started pouring in , and i go , what do i do with this ?
my wife and i first made five decisions on what to do with the money .
we said , " first , we 're not going to use it on ourselves . "
i didn 't go out and buy a bigger house .
i don 't own a guesthouse .
i still drive the same four-year-old ford that i 've driven .
we just said , we 're not going to use it on us .
the second thing was , i stopped taking a salary from the church that i pastor .
third thing is , i added up all that the church had paid me over the last 25 years , and i gave it back .
and i gave it back because i didn 't want anybody thinking that i do what i do for money -- i don 't .
in fact , personally , i 've never met a priest or a pastor or a minister who does it for money .
i know that 's a stereotype . i 've never met one of them .
believe me , there 's a whole lot easier ways to make money .
pastors are like on 24-hours-a-day call . they 're like doctors .
i left late today . i 'd hoped to be here yesterday , because my father-in-law is in his last , probably , 48 hours before he dies of cancer .
and i 'm watching a guy who 's lived his life -- he 's now in his mid-80s -- and he 's dying with peace . you know , the test of your worldview is not how you act in the good times .
the test of your worldview is how you act at the funeral .
and having been through literally hundreds if not thousands of funerals , it makes a difference .
it makes a difference what you believe .
so , we gave it all back , and then we set up three foundations , working on some of the major problems of the world : illiteracy , poverty , pandemic diseases -- particularly hiv / aids -- and set up these three foundations , and put the money into that .
the last thing we did is we became what i call " reverse tithers . "
and that is , when my wife and i got married 30 years ago , we started tithing .
now , that 's a principle in the bible that says give 10 percent of what you get back to charity , give it away to help other people .
so , we started doing that , and each year we would raise our tithe 1 percent .
so , our first year of marriage we went to 11 percent , second year we went to 12 percent , and the third year we went to 13 percent , and on and on and on . why did i do that ?
because every time i give , it breaks the grip of materialism in my life .
materialism is all about getting -- get , get , get , get all you can , can all you get , sit on the can and spoil the rest .
it 's all about more , having more .
and we think that the good life is actually looking good --
that 's most important of all -- looking good , feeling good and having the goods .
but that 's not the good life .
i meet people all the time who have those , and they 're not necessarily happy .
if money actually made you happy , then the wealthiest people in the world would be the happiest .
and that i know , personally , i know , is not true .
it 's just not true .
so , the good life is not about looking good , feeling good or having the goods ;
it 's about being good and doing good .
giving your life away .
significance in life doesn 't come from status , because you can always find somebody who 's got more than you .
it doesn 't come from sex .
it doesn 't come from salary .
it comes from serving .
it is in giving our lives away that we find meaning , we find significance .
that 's the way we were wired , i believe , by god .
and so we began to give away , and now after 30 years , my wife and i are reverse tithers -- we give away 90 percent and live on 10 .
that , actually , was the easy part .
the hard part is , what do i do with all this attention ?
because i start getting all kinds of invitations .
i just came off a nearly month-long speaking tour on three different continents , and i won 't go into that , but it was an amazing thing .
and i 'm going , what do i do with this notoriety that the book has brought ?
and being a pastor , i started reading the bible .
there 's a chapter in the bible called psalm 72 , and it 's solomon 's prayer for more influence .
when you read this prayer , it sounds incredibly selfish , self-centered .
it sounds like , he says , " god , i want you to make me famous . "
that 's what he prays .
he says , " i want you to make me famous .
i want you to spread the fame of my name through every land . i want you to give me power . i want you to make me famous .
i want you to give me influence . "
and it just sounds like the most egotistical request you could make if you were going to pray .
until you read the whole psalm , the whole chapter .
and then he says , " so that the king " -- he was the king of israel at that time at its apex in power -- " so that the king may care for the widow and orphan , support depressed , defend the defenseless , care for the sick , assist the poor , speak up for the foreigner , those in prison . "
basically , he 's talking about all the marginalized in society .
and as i read that , i looked at it , and i thought , you know , what this is saying is that the purpose of influence is to speak up for those who have no influence .
the purpose of influence is not to build your ego , or your net worth .
and , by the way , your net worth is not the same thing as your self-worth .
your value is not based on your valuables ; it 's based on a whole different set of things .
and so the purpose of influence is to speak up for those who have no influence .
and i had to admit , i can 't think of the last time i thought of widows and orphans .
they 're not on my radar .
i pastor a church in one of the most affluent areas of america -- a bunch of gated communities .
i have a church full of ceos and scientists .
and i could go five years and never , ever see a homeless person .
they 're just not in my pathway .
now , they 're 13 miles up the road in santa ana .
so , i had to say , " ok , i would use whatever affluence and whatever influence i 've got to help those who don 't have either of those . "
you know , there 's a story in the bible about moses .
whether you believe it 's true or not -- it really didn 't matter to me .
but moses , if you saw the movie , " the ten commandments , " moses goes out , and there 's this burning bush , and god talks to him .
and god says , " moses , what 's in your hand ? "
i think that 's one of the most important questions you 'll ever be asked .
what 's in your hand ?
moses says , " it 's a staff .
it 's a shepherd 's staff . "
and god says , " throw it down . "
and if you saw the movie , you know , he throws it down and it becomes a snake .
and then god says , " pick it up . "
and he picks it back up again , and it becomes a staff again .
now , i 'm reading this thing , and i 'm going , what is that all about ?
ok . what 's that all about ? well , i do know a couple of things .
number one , god never does a miracle to show off .
it 's not just , " wow , isn 't that cool ? "
and , by the way , my god doesn 't have to show up on cheese bread .
you know , if god 's going to show up , he 's not going to show up on cheese bread .
ok ? i just , this is why i love what michael does , because it 's like , ok , if he 's debunking it , then i don 't have to .
but god -- my god -- doesn 't show up on sprinkler images .
he got a few more powerful ways than that to do whatever he wants to do .
but he doesn 't do miracles just to show off .
second thing is , if god ever asks you a question , he already knows the answer .
obviously , if he 's god , then that would mean that when he asks the question , it 's for your benefit , not his .
so , he 's going , " what 's in your hand ? "
now , what was in moses ' hand ?
well , it was a shepherd 's staff . now , follow me on this .
this staff represented three things about moses ' life .
first , it represented his identity .
he was a shepherd . it 's the symbol of his own occupation .
i am a shepherd . it 's a symbol of his identity , his career , his job .
second , it 's a symbol of not only his identity ; it 's a symbol of his income , because all of his assets are tied up in sheep .
in those days nobody had bank accounts , or american express cards , or hedge funds .
your assets are tied up in your flocks .
so it 's a symbol of his identity , and it 's a symbol of his income .
and the third thing : it 's a symbol of his influence .
what do you do with a shepherd 's staff ?
well , you know , you move sheep from point a to point b with it , by hook or by crook .
you pull them or you poke them , one or the other .
so , he 's saying , " you 're going to lay down your identity .
what 's in your hand ? you 've got identity ; you 've got income ; you 've got influence .
what 's in your hand ? "
and he 's saying , " if you lay it down , i 'll make it come alive .
i 'll do some things you could never imagine possible . "
and if you 've watched that movie , " ten commandments , " all of those big miracles that happen in egypt are done through this staff .
last year , i was invited to speak at nba all-stars game .
and so , i 'm talking to the players , because most of the nba teams , nfl teams and all the other teams have done this 40 days of purpose , based on the book .
and i asked them , i said , " what 's in your hand ?
so , what 's in your hand ? " i said , " it 's a basketball , and that basketball represents your identity , who you are .
you 're an nba player . it represents your income .
you 're making a lot of money off that little ball .
and it represents your influence .
and even though you 're only going to be in the nba for a few years , you 're going to be an nba player for the rest of your life .
and that gives with you enormous influence .
so , what are you going to do with what you 've been given ? "
and i guess that 's the main reason i came up here today , to all of you very bright people at ted , is to say , " what 's in your hand ? "
what do you have that you 've been given ?
talent , background , education , freedom , networks , opportunities , wealth , ideas , creativity .
what are you doing with what you 've been given ?
that , to me , is the primary question about life .
that , to me , is what being purpose-driven is all about .
in the book i talk about how you 're wired to do certain things , you 're shaped .
this little cross takes spiritual gifts , heart , ability , personality and experiences .
these things shape you .
and if you want to know what you ought to be doing with your life , you need to look at your shape . what am i wired to do ?
why would god wire you to do something and then not have you do it ?
if you 're wired to be an anthropologist , you 'll be an anthropologist .
if you 're wired to be an undersea explorer , you 'll be an undersea explorer .
if you 're wired to make deals , you make deals .
if you 're wired to paint , you paint .
did you know that god smiles when you be you ?
when my little kids were little -- they 're all grown , now i have grandkids -- i used to go in and sit on the side of their bed , and i used to watch my kids sleep .
and i just watched their little bodies rise and lower , rise and lower .
and i would look at them -- this is not an accident .
rise and lower --
and i got joy out of just watching them sleep .
some people have the misguided idea that god only gets excited when you 're doing , quote , " spiritual things , " like going to church or helping the poor , or , you know , confessing or doing something like that .
the bottom line is , god gets pleasure watching you be you . why ?
he made you . and when you do what you were made to do , he goes , " that 's my boy .
that 's my girl .
you 're using the talent and ability that i gave you . "
so my advice to you is , look at what 's in your hand -- your identity , your influence , your income -- and say , " it 's not about me .
it 's about making the world a better place . "
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / nicholas _ negroponte _ takes _ olpc _ to _ colombia.html
ted follows nicholas negroponte to colombia as he delivers laptops inside territory once controlled by guerrillas . his partner ? colombia 's defense department , who see one laptop per child as an investment in the region .
one laptop per child , children , computers , design , education , global issues , philanthropy , politics , technology
423
negroponte takes olpc to colombia
it 's amazing , when you meet a head of state and you say , " what is your most precious natural resource ? " -- they will not say children at first .
and then when you say children , they will pretty quickly agree with you .
: we 're traveling today with the minister of defense of colombia , head of the army and the head of the police , and we 're dropping off 650 laptops today to children who have no television , no telephone and have been in a community cut off from the rest of the world for the past 40 years .
the importance of delivering laptops to this region is connecting kids who have otherwise been unconnected because of the farc , the guerrillas that started off 40 years ago as a political movement and then became a drug movement .
there are one billion children in the world , and 50 percent of them don 't have electricity at home or at school .
and in some countries -- let me pick afghanistan -- 75 percent of the little girls don 't go to school .
and i don 't mean that they drop out of school in the third or fourth grade -- they don 't go .
so in the three years since i talked at ted and showed a prototype , it 's gone from an idea to a real laptop .
we have half a million laptops today in the hands of children .
we have about a quarter of a million in transit to those and other children , and then there are another quarter of a million more that are being ordered at this moment .
so , in rough numbers , there are a million laptops .
that 's smaller than i predicted -- i predicted three to 10 million -- but is still a very large number .
in colombia , we have about 3,000 laptops .
it 's the minister of defense with whom we 're working , not the minister of education , because it is seen as a strategic defense issue in the sense of liberating these zones that had been completely closed off , in which the people who had been causing , if you will , 40 years ' worth of bombings and kidnappings and assassinations lived .
and suddenly , the kids have connected laptops .
they 've leapfrogged .
the change is absolutely monumental , because it 's not just opening it up , but it 's opening it up to the rest of the world .
so yes , they 're building roads , yes , they 're putting in telephone , yes , there will be television .
but the kids six to 12 years old are surfing the internet in spanish and in local languages , so the children grow up with access to information , with a window into the rest of the world .
before , they were closed off .
interestingly enough , in other countries , it will be the minister of finance who sees it as an engine of economic growth .
and that engine is going to see the results in 20 years .
it 's not going to happen , you know , in one year , but it 's an important , deeply economic and cultural change that happens through children .
thirty-one countries in total are involved , and in the case of uruguay , half the children already have them , and by the middle of 2009 , every single child in uruguay will have a laptop -- a little green laptop .
now what are some of the results ?
some of the results that go across every single country include teachers saying they have never loved teaching so much , and reading comprehension measured by third parties -- not by us -- skyrockets .
probably the most important thing we see is children teaching parents .
they own the laptops . they take them home .
and so when i met with three children from the schools , who had traveled all day to come to bogota , one of the three children brought her mother .
and the reason she brought her mother is that this six-year-old child had been teaching her mother how to read and write .
her mother had not gone to primary school .
and this is such an inversion , and such a wonderful example of children being the agents of change .
so now , in closing , people say , now why laptops ?
laptops are a luxury ; it 's like giving them ipods . no .
the reason you want laptops is that the word is education , not laptop .
this is an education project , not a laptop project .
they need to learn learning . and then , just think -- they can have , let 's say , 100 books .
in a village , you have 100 laptops , each with a different set of 100 books , and so that village suddenly has 10,000 books .
you and i didn 't have 10,000 books when we went to primary school .
sometimes school is under a tree , or in many cases , the teacher has only a fifth-grade education , so you need a collaborative model of learning , not just building more schools and training more teachers , which you have to do anyway .
so we 're once again doing " give one , get one . " last year , we ran a " give one , get one " program , and it generated over 100,000 laptops
that we were then able to give free .
and by being a zero-dollar laptop , we can go to countries that can 't afford it at all .
and that 's what we did . we went to haiti , we went to rwanda , afghanistan , ethiopia , mongolia .
places that are not markets , seeding it with the principles of saturation , connectivity , low ages , etc .
and then we can actually roll out large numbers .
so think of it this way : think of it as inoculating children against ignorance .
and think of the laptop as a vaccine .
you don 't vaccinate a few children .
you vaccinate all the children in an area .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / kathryn _ schulz _ on _ being _ wrong.html
most of us will do anything to avoid being wrong . but what if we 're wrong about that ? " wrongologist " kathryn schulz makes a compelling case for not just admitting but embracing our fallibility .
culture , failure
1126
kathryn schulz : on being wrong
so it 's 1995 , i 'm in college , and a friend and i go on a road trip from providence , rhode island to portland , oregon .
and you know , we 're young and unemployed , so we do the whole thing on back roads through state parks and national forests -- basically the longest route we can possibly take .
and somewhere in the middle of south dakota , i turn to my friend and i ask her a question that 's been bothering me for 2,000 miles .
" what 's up with the chinese character i keep seeing by the side of the road ? "
my friend looks at me totally blankly .
there 's actually a gentleman in the front row who 's doing a perfect imitation of her look .
and i 'm like , " you know , all the signs we keep seeing with the chinese character on them . " she just stares at me for a few moments , and then she cracks up , because she figures out what i 'm talking about .
and what i 'm talking about is this . right , the famous chinese character for picnic area .
i 've spent the last five years of my life thinking about situations exactly like this -- why we sometimes misunderstand the signs around us , and how we behave when that happens , and what all of this can tell us about human nature .
in other words , as you heard chris say , i 've spent the last five years thinking about being wrong .
this might strike you as a strange career move , but it actually has one great advantage : no job competition .
in fact , most of us do everything we can to avoid thinking about being wrong , or at least to avoid thinking about the possibility that we ourselves are wrong .
we get it in the abstract .
we all know everybody in this room makes mistakes .
the human species , in general , is fallible -- okay fine .
but when it comes down to me , right now , to all the beliefs i hold , here in the present tense , suddenly all of this abstract appreciation of fallibility goes out the window -- and i can 't actually think of anything i 'm wrong about .
and the thing is , the present tense is where we live .
we go to meetings in the present tense ; we go on family vacations in the present tense ; we go to the polls and vote in the present tense .
so effectively , we all kind of wind up traveling through life , trapped in this little bubble of feeling very right about everything .
i think this is a problem .
i think it 's a problem for each of us as individuals , in our personal and professional lives , and i think it 's a problem for all of us collectively as a culture .
so what i want to do today is , first of all , talk about why we get stuck inside this feeling of being right .
and second , why it 's such a problem .
and finally , i want to convince you that it is possible to step outside of that feeling and that if you can do so , it is the single greatest moral , intellectual and creative leap you can make .
so why do we get stuck in this feeling of being right ?
one reason , actually , has to do with a feeling of being wrong .
so let me ask you guys something -- or actually , let me ask you guys something , because you 're right here : how does it feel -- emotionally -- how does it feel to be wrong ?
dreadful . thumbs down .
embarrassing . okay , wonderful , great .
dreadful , thumbs down , embarrassing -- thank you , these are great answers , but they 're answers to a different question .
you guys are answering the question : how does it feel to realize you 're wrong ?
realizing you 're wrong can feel like all of that and a lot of other things , right ?
i mean it can be devastating , it can be revelatory , it can actually be quite funny , like my stupid chinese character mistake .
but just being wrong doesn 't feel like anything .
i 'll give you an analogy .
do you remember that loony tunes cartoon where there 's this pathetic coyote who 's always chasing and never catching a roadrunner ?
in pretty much every episode of this cartoon , there 's a moment where the coyote is chasing the roadrunner and the roadrunner runs off a cliff , which is fine -- he 's a bird , he can fly .
but the thing is , the coyote runs off the cliff right after him .
and what 's funny -- at least if you 're six years old -- is that the coyote 's totally fine too .
he just keeps running -- right up until the moment that he looks down and realizes that he 's in mid-air .
that 's when he falls .
when we 're wrong about something -- not when we realize it , but before that -- we 're like that coyote after he 's gone off the cliff and before he looks down .
you know , we 're already wrong , we 're already in trouble , but we feel like we 're on solid ground .
so i should actually correct something i said a moment ago .
it does feel like something to be wrong ; it feels like being right .
so this is one reason , a structural reason , why we get stuck inside this feeling of rightness .
i call this error blindness .
most of the time , we don 't have any kind of internal cue to let us know that we 're wrong about something , until it 's too late .
but there 's a second reason that we get stuck inside this feeling as well -- and this one is cultural .
think back for a moment to elementary school .
you 're sitting there in class , and your teacher is handing back quiz papers , and one of them looks like this .
this is not mine , by the way .
so there you are in grade school , and you know exactly what to think about the kid who got this paper .
it 's the dumb kid , the troublemaker , the one who never does his homework .
so by the time you are nine years old , you 've already learned , first of all , that people who get stuff wrong are lazy , irresponsible dimwits -- and second of all , that the way to succeed in life is to never make any mistakes .
we learn these really bad lessons really well .
and a lot of us -- and i suspect , especially a lot of us in this room -- deal with them by just becoming perfect little a students , perfectionists , over-achievers .
right , mr. cfo , astrophysicist , ultra-marathoner ?
you 're all cfo , astrophysicists , ultra-marathoners , it turns out .
okay , so fine .
except that then we freak out at the possibility that we 've gotten something wrong .
because according to this , getting something wrong means there 's something wrong with us .
so we just insist that we 're right , because it makes us feel smart and responsible and virtuous and safe .
so let me tell you a story .
a couple of years ago , a woman comes into beth israel deaconess medical center for a surgery .
beth israel 's in boston .
it 's the teaching hospital for harvard -- one of the best hospitals in the country .
so this woman comes in and she 's taken into the operating room .
she 's anesthetized , the surgeon does his thing -- stitches her back up , sends her out to the recovery room .
everything seems to have gone fine .
and she wakes up , and she looks down at herself , and she says , " why is the wrong side of my body in bandages ? "
well the wrong side of her body is in bandages because the surgeon has performed a major operation on her left leg instead of her right one .
when the vice president for health care quality at beth israel spoke about this incident , he said something very interesting .
he said , " for whatever reason , the surgeon simply felt that he was on the correct side of the patient . " the point of this story is that trusting too much in the feeling of being on the correct side of anything can be very dangerous .
this internal sense of rightness that we all experience so often is not a reliable guide to what is actually going on in the external world .
and when we act like it is , and we stop entertaining the possibility that we could be wrong , well that 's when we end up doing things like dumping 200 million gallons of oil into the gulf of mexico , or torpedoing the global economy .
so this is a huge practical problem .
but it 's also a huge social problem .
think for a moment about what it means to feel right .
it means that you think that your beliefs just perfectly reflect reality .
and when you feel that way , you 've got a problem to solve , which is , how are you going to explain all of those people who disagree with you ?
it turns out , most of us explain those people the same way , by resorting to a series of unfortunate assumptions .
the first thing we usually do when someone disagrees with us is we just assume they 're ignorant .
they don 't have access to the same information that we do , and when we generously share that information with them , they 're going to see the light and come on over to our team .
when that doesn 't work , when it turns out those people have all the same facts that we do and they still disagree with us , then we move on to a second assumption , which is that they 're idiots .
they have all the right pieces of the puzzle , and they are too moronic to put them together correctly .
and when that doesn 't work , when it turns out that people who disagree with us have all the same facts we do and are actually pretty smart , then we move on to a third assumption : they know the truth , and they are deliberately distorting it for their own malevolent purposes .
so this is a catastrophe .
this attachment to our own rightness keeps us from preventing mistakes when we absolutely need to and causes us to treat each other terribly .
but to me , what 's most baffling and most tragic about this is that it misses the whole point of being human .
it 's like we want to imagine that our minds are just these perfectly translucent windows and we just gaze out of them and describe the world as it unfolds .
and we want everybody else to gaze out of the same window and see the exact same thing .
that is not true , and if it were , life would be incredibly boring .
the miracle of your mind isn 't that you can see the world as it is .
it 's that you can see the world as it isn 't .
we can remember the past , and we can think about the future , and we can imagine what it 's like to be some other person in some other place .
and we all do this a little differently , which is why we can all look up at the same night sky and see this and also this and also this .
and yeah , it is also why we get things wrong .
1,200 years before descartes said his famous thing about " i think therefore i am , " this guy , st. augustine , sat down and wrote " fallor ergo sum " -- " i err therefore i am . "
augustine understood that our capacity to screw up , it 's not some kind of embarrassing defect in the human system , something we can eradicate or overcome .
it 's totally fundamental to who we are .
because , unlike god , we don 't really know what 's going on out there .
and unlike all of the other animals , we are obsessed with trying to figure it out .
to me , this obsession is the source and root of all of our productivity and creativity .
last year , for various reasons , i found myself listening to a lot of episodes of the public radio show this american life .
and so i 'm listening and i 'm listening , and at some point , i start feeling like all the stories are about being wrong .
and my first thought was , " i 've lost it .
i 've become the crazy wrongness lady . i just imagined it everywhere , " which has happened .
but a couple of months later , i actually had a chance to interview ira glass , who 's the host of the show .
and i mentioned this to him , and he was like , " no actually , that 's true .
in fact , " he says , " as a staff , we joke that every single episode of our show has the same crypto-theme .
and the crypto-theme is : ' i thought this one thing was going to happen and something else happened instead . ' and the thing is , " says ira glass , " we need this .
we need these moments of surprise and reversal and wrongness to make these stories work . " and for the rest of us , audience members , as listeners , as readers , we eat this stuff up .
we love things like plot twists and red herrings and surprise endings .
when it comes to our stories , we love being wrong .
but , you know , our stories are like this because our lives are like this .
we think this one thing is going to happen and something else happens instead .
george bush thought he was going to invade iraq , find a bunch of weapons of mass destruction , liberate the people and bring democracy to the middle east .
and something else happened instead .
and hosni mubarak thought he was going to be the dictator of egypt for the rest of his life , until he got too old or too sick and could pass the reigns of power onto his son .
and something else happened instead .
and maybe you thought you were going to grow up and marry your high school sweetheart and move back to your hometown and raise a bunch of kids together .
and something else happened instead .
and i have to tell you that i thought i was writing an incredibly nerdy book about a subject everybody hates for an audience that would never materialize .
and something else happened instead .
i mean , this is life .
for good and for ill , we generate these incredible stories about the world around us , and then the world turns around and astonishes us .
no offense , but this entire conference is an unbelievable monument to our capacity to get stuff wrong .
we just spent an entire week talking about innovations and advancements and improvements , but you know why we need all of those innovations and advancements and improvements ?
because half the stuff that 's the most mind-boggling and world-altering -- ted 1998 -- eh .
didn 't really work out that way , did it ?
where 's my jet pack , chris ?
so here we are again .
and that 's how it goes .
we come up with another idea .
we tell another story .
we hold another conference .
the theme of this one , as you guys have now heard seven million times , is the rediscovery of wonder .
and to me , if you really want to rediscover wonder , you need to step outside of that tiny , terrified space of rightness and look around at each other and look out at the vastness and complexity and mystery of the universe and be able to say , " wow , i don 't know .
maybe i 'm wrong . " thank you .
thank you guys .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / juan _ enriquez _ wants _ to _ grow _ energy.html
juan enriquez challenges our definition of bioenergy . oil , coal , gas and other hydrocarbons are not chemical but biological products , based on plant matter -- and thus , growable . our whole approach to fuel , he argues , needs to change .
biodiversity , biotech , business , energy , science , technology , tedbooks
193
juan enriquez wants to grow energy
what is bioenergy ? bioenergy is not ethanol .
bioenergy isn 't global warming . bioenergy is something which seems counterintuitive . bioenergy is oil . it 's gas . it 's coal . and part of building that bridge to the future , to the point where we can actually see the oceans in a rational way , or put up these geo-spatial orbits that will twirl or do microwaves or stuff , is going to depend on how we understand bioenergy and manage it . and to do that , you really have to look first at agriculture .
so we 've been planting stuff for 11,000 years . and in the measure that we plant stuff , what we learn from agriculture is you 've got to deal with pests , you 've got to deal with all types of awful things , you 've got to cultivate stuff . in the measure that you learn how to use water to cultivate , then you 're going to be able to spread beyond the nile .
you 're going to be able to power stuff , so irrigation makes a difference .
irrigation starts to make you be allowed to plant stuff where you want it , as opposed to where the rivers flood . you start getting this organic agriculture ; you start putting machinery onto this stuff . machinery , with a whole bunch of water , leads to very large-scale agriculture .
you put together machines and water , and you get landscapes that look like this . and then you get sales that look like this . it 's brute force . so what you 've been doing in agriculture is you start out with something that 's a reasonably natural system . you start taming that natural system . you put a lot of force behind that natural system . you put a whole bunch of pesticides and herbicides -- -- behind that natural system , and you end up with systems that look like this .
and it 's all brute force . and that 's the way we 've been approaching energy . so the lesson in agriculture is that you can actually change the system that 's based on brute force as you start merging that system and learning that system and actually applying biology . and you move from a discipline of engineering , you move from a discipline of chemistry , into a discipline of biology . and probably one of the most important human beings on the planet is this guy behind me .
this is a guy called norman borlaug . he won the nobel prize . he 's got the congressional medal of honor . he deserves all of this stuff . and he deserves this stuff because he probably has fed more people than any other human being alive because he researched how to put biology behind seeds . he did this in mexico . the reason why india and china no longer have these massive famines is because norman borlaug taught them how to grow grains in a more efficient way and launched the green revolution . that is something that a lot of people have criticized . but of course , those are people who don 't realize that china and india , instead of having huge amounts of starving people , are exporting grains .
and the irony of this particular system is the place where he did the research , which was mexico , didn 't adopt this technology , ignored this technology , talked about why this technology should be thought about , but not really applied .
and mexico remains one of the largest grain importers on the planet because it doesn 't apply technology that was discovered in mexico . and in fact , hasn 't recognized this man , to the point where there aren 't statues of this man all over mexico . there are in china and india . and the
institute that this guy ran has now moved to india . that is the difference between adopting technologies and discussing technologies .
now , it 's not just that this guy fed a huge amount of people in the world . it 's that this is the net effect in terms of what technology does , if you understand biology .
what happened in agriculture ? well , if you take agriculture over a century , agriculture in about 1900 would have been recognizable to somebody planting a thousand years earlier . yeah , the plows look different . the machines were tractors or stuff instead of mules , but the farmer would have understood : this is what the guy 's doing , this is why he 's doing it , this is where he 's going . what really started to change in agriculture is when you started moving from this brute force engineering and chemistry into biology , and that 's where you get your productivity increases . and as you do that stuff , here 's what happens to productivity .
basically , you go from 250 hours to produce 100 bushels , to 40 , to 15 , to five . agricultural labor productivity increased seven times , 1950 to 2000 , whereas the rest of the economy increased about 2.5 times . this is an absolutely massive increase in how much is produced per person .
the effect of this , of course , is it 's not just amber waves of grain , it is mountains of stuff .
and 50 percent of the eu budget is going to subsidize agriculture from mountains of stuff that people have overproduced .
this would be a good outcome for energy . and of
course , by now , you 're probably saying to yourself , " self , i thought i came to a talk about energy and here 's this guy talking about biology . "
so where 's the link between these two things ?
one of the ironies of this whole system is we 're discussing what to do about a system that we don 't understand . we don 't even know what oil is . we
don 't know where oil comes from . i mean , literally , it 's still a source of debate what this black river of stuff is and where it comes
from . the best assumption , and one of the best guesses in this stuff , is that this stuff comes out of this stuff , that these things absorb sunlight , rot under pressure for millions of years , and you get these black rivers .
now , the interesting thing about that thesis -- if that thesis turns out to be true -- is that oil , and all hydrocarbons , turned out to be concentrated sunlight . and if you think of bioenergy , bioenergy isn 't ethanol . bioenergy is taking the sun , concentrating it in amoebas , concentrating it in plants , and maybe that 's why you get these rainbows .
and as you 're looking at this system , if hydrocarbons are concentrated sunlight , then bioenergy works in a different way . and we 've got to start thinking of oil and other hydrocarbons as part of these solar panels .
maybe that 's one of the reasons why if you fly over west texas , the types of wells that you 're beginning to see don 't look unlike those pictures of kansas and those irrigated plots .
this is how you farm oil . and as you think of farming oil and how oil has evolved , we started with this brute force approach . and then what did we learn ? then we learned we had to go bigger . and then what 'd we learn ? then we have to go even bigger . and we are getting really destructive as we 're going out and farming this bioenergy .
these are the athabasca tar sands , and there 's an enormous amount -- first of mining , the largest trucks in the world are working here , and then you 've got to pull out this black sludge , which is basically oil that doesn 't flow . it 's tied to the sand . and then you 've got to use a lot of steam to separate it , which only works at today 's oil prices .
coal . coal turns out to be virtually the same stuff . it is probably plants , except that these have been burned and crushed under pressure .
so you take something like this , you burn it , you put it under pressure , and likely as not , you get this . although , again , i stress : we don 't know .
which is curious as we debate all this stuff . but as you think of coal , this is what burned wheat kernels look like . not entirely unlike coal .
and of course , coalmines are very dangerous places because in some of these coalmines , you get gas . when that gas blows up , people die . so you 're producing a biogas out of coal in some mines , but not in others .
any place you see a differential , there 're some interesting questions . there 's some questions as to what you should be doing with this stuff . but again , coal . maybe the same stuff , maybe the same system , maybe bioenergy , and you 're applying exactly the same technology .
here 's your brute force approach . once you get through your brute force approach , then you just rip off whole mountaintops . and you end up with the single largest source of carbon emissions , which are coal-fired gas plants . that is probably not the best use of bioenergy .
as you think of what are the alternatives to this system -- it 's important to find alternatives because it turns out that the u.s. is dwindling in its petroleum reserves , but it is not dwindling in its coal reserves , nor is china . there are huge coal reserves that are sitting out there , and we 've got to start thinking of them as biological energy , because if we keep treating them as chemical energy , or engineering energy , we 're going to be in deep doo-doo .
gas is a similar issue . gas is also a biological product . and as you think of gas , well , you 're familiar with gas . and here 's a different way of mining coal .
this is called coal bed methane . why is this picture interesting ? because if coal turns out to be concentrated plant life , the reason why you may get a differential in gas output between one mine and another -- the reason why one mine may blow up and another one may not blow up -- may be because there 's stuff eating that stuff and producing gas .
this is a well-known phenomenon . you eat certain things , you produce a lot of gas . it may turn out that biological processes in coalmines have the same process . if that is true , then one of the ways of getting the energy out of coal may not be to rip whole mountaintops off , and it may not be to burn coal . it may be to have stuff process that coal in a biological fashion as you did in agriculture .
that is what bioenergy is . it is not ethanol . it is not subsidies to a few companies . it is not importing corn into iowa because you 've built so many of these ethanol plants . it is beginning to understand the transition that occurred in agriculture , from brute force into biological force . and in the measure that you can do that , you can clean some stuff , and you can clean it pretty quickly .
we already have some indicators of productivity on
this stuff . ok , if you put steam into coal fields or petroleum fields that have been running for decades , you can get a really substantial increase , like an eight-fold increase , in your output . this is just the beginning stages of this stuff .
and as you think of biomaterials , this guy -- who did part of the sequencing of the human genome , who just doubled the databases of genes and proteins known on earth by sailing around the world -- has been thinking about how you structure this . and there 's a series of smart people thinking about this . and they 've been putting together companies like synthetic genomics , like , a cambria , like codon , and what those companies are trying to do is to think of , how do you apply biological principles to avoid brute force ?
think of it in the following terms . think of it as beginning to program stuff for specific purposes . think of the cell as a hardware . think of the genes as a software . and in the measure that you begin to think of life as code that is interchangeable , that can become energy , that can become food , that can become fiber , that can become human beings , that can become a whole series of things , then you 've got to shift your approach as to how you 're going to structure and deal and think about energy in a very different way .
what are the first principles of this stuff and where are we heading ? this is one of the gentle giants on the planet . he 's one of the nicest human beings you 've ever met . his name is hamilton smith . he won the nobel for figuring out how to cut genes -- something called restriction enzymes .
he was at hopkins when he did this , and he 's such a modest guy that the day he won , his mother called him and said , " i didn 't realize there was another ham smith at hopkins . do you know he just won the nobel ? " i mean , that was mom ,
but anyway , this guy is just a class act . you find him at the bench every single day , working on a pipette and building stuff . and one of the things this guy just built are these things .
what is this ? this is the first transplant of naked dna , where you take an entire dna operating system out of one cell , insert it into a different cell , and have that cell boot up as a separate species . that 's one month old . you will see stuff in the next month that will be just as important as this stuff .
and as you think about this stuff and what the implications of this are , we 're going to start not just converting ethanol from corn with very high subsidies . we 're going to start thinking about biology entering energy . it is very expensive to process this stuff , both in economic terms and in energy terms .
this is what accumulates in the tar sands of alberta . these are sulfur blocks . because as you separate that petroleum from the sand , and use an enormous amount of energy inside that vapor -- steam to separate this stuff -- you also have to separate out the sulfur . the difference between light crude and heavy crude -- well , it 's about 14 bucks a barrel . that 's why you 're building these pyramids of sulfur blocks . and by the way , the scale on these things is pretty large .
now , if you can take part of the energy content out of doing this , you reduce the system , and you really do start applying biological principles to energy . this has to be a bridge to the point where you can get to wind , to the point where you can get to solar , to the point where you can get to nuclear -- and hopefully you won 't build the next nuclear plant on a beautiful seashore next to an earthquake fault . just a thought .
but in the meantime , for the next decade at least , the name of the game is hydrocarbons . and be that oil , be that gas , be that coal , this is what we 're dealing with . and before i make this talk too long , here 's what 's happening in the current energy system .
86 percent of the energy we consume are hydrocarbons . that means 86 percent of the stuff we 're consuming are probably processed plants and amoebas and the rest of the stuff . and there 's a role in here for conservation . there 's a role in here for alternative stuff , but we 've also got to get that other portion right .
how we deal with that other portion is our bridge to the future . and as we think of this bridge to the future , one of the things you should ponder is : we are leaving about two-thirds of the oil today inside those wells . so we 're spending an enormous amount of money and leaving most of the energy down there . which , of course , requires more energy to go out and get energy . the ratios become idiotic by the time you get to ethanol . it may even be a one-to-one ratio on the energy input and the energy output . that is a stupid way of managing this system .
last point , last graph . one of the things that we 've got to do is to stabilize oil prices . this is what oil prices look like , ok ?
this is a very bad system because what happens is your hurdle rate gets set very low . people come up with really smart ideas for solar panels , or for wind , or for something else , and then guess what ?
the oil price goes through the floor . that company goes out of business , and then you can bring the oil price back up .
so if i had one closing and modest suggestion , let 's set a stable oil price in europe and the united states . how do you do that ? well , let 's put a tax on oil that is a non-revenue tax , and it basically says for the next 20 years , the price of oil will be -- whatever you want , 35 bucks , 40 bucks . if the opec price falls below that , we tax it . if the opec price goes above that , the tax goes away .
what does that do for entrepreneurs ? what does it do for companies ? it tells people , if you can produce energy for less than 35 bucks a barrel , or less than 40 bucks a barrel , or less than 50 bucks a barrel -- let 's debate it -- you will have a business . but let 's not put people through this cycle where it doesn 't pay to research because your company will go out of business as opec drives alternatives and keeps bioenergy from happening . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / chip _ conley _ measuring _ what _ makes _ life _ worthwhile.html
when the dotcom bubble burst , hotelier chip conley went in search of a business model based on happiness . in an old friendship with an employee and in the wisdom of a buddhist king , he learned that success comes from what you count .
buddhism , business , economics , happiness , money , psychology
889
chip conley : measuring what makes life worthwhile
i 'm going to talk about the simple truth in leadership in the 21st century .
in the 21st century , we need to actually look at -- and what i 'm actually going to encourage you to consider today -- is to go back to our school days when we learned how to count .
but i think it 's time for us to think about what we count .
because what we actually count truly counts .
let me start by telling you a little story .
this is van quach .
she came to this country in 1986 from vietnam .
she changed her name to vivian because she wanted to fit in here in america .
her first job was at an inner-city motel in san francisco as a maid .
i happened to buy that motel about three months after vivian started working there .
so vivian and i have been working together for 23 years .
with the youthful idealism of a 26-year-old , in 1987 , i started my company and i called it joie de vivre , a very impractical name , because i actually was looking to create joy of life .
and this first hotel that i bought , motel , was a pay-by-the-hour , no-tell motel in the inner-city of san francisco .
as i spent time with vivian , i saw that she had sort of a joie de vivre in how she did her work .
it made me question and curious : how could someone actually find joy in cleaning toilets for a living ?
so i spent time with vivian , and i saw that she didn 't find joy in cleaning toilets .
her job , her goal and her calling was not to become the world 's greatest toilet scrubber .
what counts for vivian was the emotional connection she created with her fellow employees and our guests .
and what gave her inspiration and meaning was the fact that she was taking care of people who were far away from home .
because vivian knew what it was like to be far away from home .
that very human lesson , more than 20 years ago , served me well during the last economic downturn we had .
in the wake of the dotcom crash and 9 / 11 , san francisco bay area hotels went through the largest percentage revenue drop in the history of american hotels .
we were the largest operator of hotels in the bay area , so we were particularly vulnerable .
but also back then , remember we stopped eating french fries in this country .
well , not exactly , of course not .
we started eating " freedom fries , "
