i suggest the house .
the reality , now here is something important .
what 's important about this is these shapes are duals of each other .
and you can see how the icosahedron withdraws into the dodecahedron and then they just merge into each other .
so , the whole concept of branes in the universe , if the universe is shaped like a dodecahedron this is a very good map of what could possibly be .
and that is , of course , what we are here to talk about .
what a coincidence !
october 9th , in france , jean-pierre luminet said that the universe is probably shaped like a dodecahedron , based on information that they got from this probe .
this would be a normal wave pattern .
but what they 're seeing , way out there in the far reaches of the microwave background , is this kind of odd undulation .
it doesn 't plug in to what they suspected a flat universe would be .
so , you can kind of get an idea from this extrapolating that back under this huge picture , so we get this idea of what the primal universe looked like .
and judging from this , it looks a little like a cheeseburger .
so , i 'm thinking the universe is either a dodecahedron or a cheeseburger .
and for me , that 's a win-win .
everybody goes , i 'm happy .
better really hurry up .
i just threw this in because as important as all of our intellectual abilities are , without heart and without love it 's just -- it 's all meaningless . and that , to me , is really beautiful .
except for that creepy guy in the background .
getting back to the point of my particular presentation , kepler , one of my great heroes , who realized that these five solids , which i spoke of earlier , were related somehow to the planets , but he couldn 't prove it . it freaked him out .
but it did lead to newton discovering gravity .
so , maps of things leading to organized understandings of the universe in which we emerge . now this is isaac from a vietnamese stamp .
i am not suggesting at all that my vietnamese brothers and sisters could maybe use a little art class here and there . but ...
that 's not a good picture .
not a good picture . now , my friends in the island of nevis are a little better . look at that ! that 's isaac newton .
that guy is rockin ' .
what a handsome cat .
once again , nicaragua let me down .
and copernicus looks like johnny carson , which is really weird .
i don 't get that at all .
once again , these guys rock it out .
isaac is kickin ' ass . man , he looks like a rock star .
this is freaky is a major way .
this is sierra leone .
they got little babies in there , floating in there .
man . i don 't really need to comment on this . but i didn 't know that isaac newton was in the moody blues . did you ?
when did this happen ?
it 's a different kind of course . and they 've got five apples ?
i mean these guys are extrapolating in realms that are not necessarily valid .
although five is a good number , of course .
ecuador , my friend kepler , as you can see , they call him juan .
juan ? no ! johannes , not juan .
it wasn 't carlos chaplain . it 's wrong .
rene descartes , of course . once again these grenada people , this is like way too sick for anybody 's imagination .
he 's all murky . there is little kids leaning on his leg , little ghosts flying around . we gotta clean this stuff up fast , ladies and gentlemen .
this is , of course , the cartesian coordinates .
once again , that 's sierra leone .
this is again , indicating how numbers relate to space relate to form , maps of the universe .
because that 's why we 're here , really , i think to figure stuff out and to love each other .
descartes .
before the horse .
now , monaco took descartes , and just flipped him around .
now , monaco is problematic for me , and i 'll show you why .
here is a map . all they have is a casino on it .
and why franklin delano roosevelt is on their map i don 't even want to hazard a guess .
but i 'd say he 'd been to hellespointica depressio recently .
this is the flag of monaco . ladies and gentlemen , the flag of indonesia . please examine .
not sure how this came to be , but it 's not right .
in monaco , " no , what are you talking about ?
they are so different .
look , ours is more red , it 's longer .
they stole our flag ! they stole our flag ! " bode 's law wasn 't even his law . it was a guy named titus .
and the reason i just bring this up because it is a law that doesn 't really work .
that 's jude law and some of his films recently didn 't work .
just a correlation that indicates how things are misinterpreted .
and i wonder if the photographer said , " okay , jude , could you touch your tooth ? that 's good . " just a tip , if you 're being photographed for press pictures , don 't touch your teeth .
prime numbers , gauss , one of my favorites .
golden section , i 've been obsessed with this thing since before i was born .
i know that scares a lot of you , but that was my purpose entirely .
there we can see fibonacci numbers related to the golden section , because fibonacci and golden section relate to the unfolding of the measured meter of matter , as i refer to it .
if fibonacci had been on paxil , that would be the fibonacci series .
" ten milligram , 20 milligram . "
" leonardo , dinner 's ready , put down those books and take your pills . "
" yes , mama . "
alright where is this going ? that 's a good question .
here is the premise that i began 27 years ago .
if numbers can express the laws of this incredible universe that we live , i reason , through some sort of reverse engineering , we could extrapolate from them some basic structural element of this universe .
and that 's what i did . twenty-seven years ago i started working on this .
and i tried to build a particle accelerator .
and that didn 't work out well .
so , then i thought a calculator is a metaphor .
i can just divide numbers , that 's like atom smashing .
that 's what i did . that 's how i found moleeds .
moleeds are what i believe the thing that will allow string theory to be proved .
they are the nodes on the string , patterns and relationships , 27 , 37 .
that was the first chart i came up with .
you can see , even if you don 't go for the numbers , the beauty of the symmetry .
the numbers from one to 36 , divided into six groups .
symmetry , pairs .
every top adds up to 37 .
bottom , all 74 .
there is so many intricate relationships that i 'm not going to go there now , because you would say , " hey , go back to the fluctus part . "
circle of fifths , acoustic harmony , geometric symmetry .
i knew those two were related .
once again , the cartesian kind of cross-over .
so , i said if i 'm going to put a circle , see what kind of patterns i get , boom , the red system .
look at that . you can 't just make this stuff up , ladies and gentlemen .
you can 't just go around going , " oh , i 'm going to put some triangles in a circle and they 're going to be symmetrical . and they 're all going to add up , and it 's going to be , oh yeah , i figured that out . "
this is beyond anything anybody could just make up .
there is the orange system .
and you 'll see over here , these are multiples of the number 27 .
and they recapitulate that shape , even though that 's a circle of nine and that 's a circle of 36 . it 's nuts .
that 's the green system . it all folds in half on the green system , right between 18 and 19 .
the blue system . the violet . it 's all there .
look at that ! i mean you cannot make that stuff up .
that just doesn 't fall out of a tree , ladies and gentlemen .
twenty-seven years of my life !
and i 'm presenting it here at ted . why ?
because this is the place if aliens land , i hope they come here .
" we are going to destroy the earth . hmmm ... maybe not . "
in this last year i have found these subsequent systems which allow for the mathematic possibilities of the calabi-yau manifolds in a way that doesn 't necessitate these little hidden dimensions .
which works mathematically , but it just doesn 't seem god-like to me .
it just seems like it 's not sexy and elegant , it 's hidden .
i don 't want hidden , i want to see it .
i found other pairs all have symmetry , even though , unlike the master one , their symmetry is split .
unbelievable . this is like crazy .
am i the only one that sees this ?
you know , i didn 't just draw this in a day , by the way .
you know , try making some charts like this at home .
you gotta be accurate ! there 's measurement involved , increments .
these are maps , by the way .
not stamps , but one day .
okay , i 'm getting to the punch . golden ratio , it 's crazy .
and look at this , built within it is the golden ratio .
i start looking at that , and look at them again .
they start looking like planets .
i go to jpl .
i look at the orbits of the planets .
i find 18 examples of it in our solar system .
i never told anybody . this is the first thing . this could be history .
kepler was right .
eighteen and 19 , the middle of the moleeds , 0.618 is the golden section . multiply them together , 18.618 x 19.618 is 365.247 .
which is .005 different from the number of days in a year .
hey , you can 't make this up .
thank you very much .
thank you .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / guy _ philippe _ goldstein _ how _ cyberattacks _ threaten _ real _ world _ peace.html
more and more , nations are waging attacks with cyber weapons -- silent strikes on another country 's computer systems that leave behind no trace . at tedxparis , guy-philippe goldstein shows how cyberattacks can leap between the digital and physical worlds to prompt armed conflict -- and how we might avert this global security hazard .
computers , global issues , politics , security , technology , war
1250
guy-philippe goldstein : how cyberattacks threaten real-world peace
good afternoon .
if you have followed diplomatic news in the past weeks , you may have heard of a kind of crisis between china and the u.s. regarding cyberattacks against the american company google .
many things have been said about this . some people have called a cyberwar what may actually be just a spy operation -- and obviously , a quite mishandled one .
however , this episode reveals the growing anxiety in the western world regarding these emerging cyber weapons .
it so happens that these weapons are dangerous . they 're of a new nature : they could lead the world into a digital conflict that could turn into an armed struggle .
these virtual weapons can also destroy the physical world .
in 1982 , in the middle of the cold war in soviet siberia , a pipeline exploded with a burst of 3 kilotons , the equivalent of a fourth of the hiroshima bomb .
now we know today -- this was revealed by thomas reed , ronald reagan 's former u.s. air force secretary -- this explosion was actually the result of a cia sabotage operation , in which they had managed to infiltrate the it management systems of that pipeline .
more recently , the u.s. government revealed that in september 2008 , more than 3 million people in the state of espirito santo in brazil were plunged into darkness , victims of a blackmail operation from cyber pirates .
even more worrying for the americans , in december 2008 the holiest of holies , the it systems of centcom , the central command managing the wars in iraq and afghanistan , may have been infiltrated by hackers who used these : plain but infected usb keys . and with these keys , they may have been able to get inside centcom 's systems , to see and hear everything , and maybe even infect some of them .
as a result , the americans take the threat very seriously . i 'll quote general james cartwright , vice chairman of the joint chiefs of staff , who says in a report to congress that cyberattacks could be as powerful as weapons of mass destruction .
moreover , the americans have decided to spend over 30 billion dollars in the next five years to build up their cyberwar capabilities .
and across the world today , we see a sort of cyber arms race , with cyberwar units built up by countries like north korea or even iran .
yet , what you 'll never hear from spokespeople from the pentagon or the french department of defence is that the question isn 't really who 's the enemy , but actually the very nature of cyber weapons .
and to understand why , we must look at how , through the ages , military technologies have maintained or destroyed world peace .
for example , if we 'd had tedxparis 350 years ago , we would have talked about the military innovation of the day -- the massive vauban-style fortifications -- and we could have predicted a period of stability in the world or in europe. which was indeed the case in europe between 1650 and 1750 .
similarly , if we 'd had this talk 30 or 40 years ago , we would have seen how the rise of nuclear weapons , and the threat of mutually assured destruction they imply , prevents a direct fight between the two superpowers .
however , if we 'd had this talk 60 years ago , we would have seen how the emergence of new aircraft and tank technologies , which give the advantage to the attacker , make the blitzkrieg doctrine very credible and thus create the possibility of war in europe .
so military technologies can influence the course of the world , can make or break world peace -- and there lies the issue with cyber weapons .
the first issue : imagine a potential enemy announcing they 're building a cyberwar unit , but only for their country 's defense .
okay , but what distinguishes it from an offensive unit ?
it gets even more complicated when the doctrines of use become ambiguous .
just 3 years ago , both the u.s. and france were saying they were investing militarily in cyberspace , strictly to defend their it systems .
but today both countries say the best defense is to attack .
and so , they 're joining china , whose doctrine of use for 15 years has been both defensive and offensive .
the second issue : your country could be under cyberattack with entire regions plunged into total darkness , and you may not even know who 's attacking you .
cyber weapons have this peculiar feature : they can be used without leaving traces .
this gives a tremendous advantage to the attacker ,
because the defender doesn 't know who to fight back against .
and if the defender retaliates against the wrong adversary , they risk making one more enemy and ending up diplomatically isolated .
this issue isn 't just theoretical .
in may 2007 , estonia was the victim of cyberattacks , that damaged its communication and banking systems .
estonia accused russia .
but nato , though it defends estonia , reacted very prudently . why ?
because nato couldn 't be 100 % sure that the kremlin was indeed behind these attacks .
so to sum up , on the one hand , when a possible enemy announces they 're building a cyberwar unit , you don 't know whether it 's for attack or defense . on the other hand , we know that these weapons give an advantage to attacking .
in a major article published in 1978 , professor robert jervis of columbia university in new york described a model to understand how conflicts could arise .
in this context , when you don 't know if the potential enemy is preparing for defense or attack , and if the weapons give an advantage to attacking , then this environment is most likely to spark a conflict .
this is the environment that 's being created by cyber weapons today , and historically it was the environment in europe at the onset of world war i .
so cyber weapons are dangerous by nature , but in addition , they 're emerging in a much more unstable environment .
if you remember the cold war , it was a very hard game , but a stable one played only by two players , which allowed for some coordination between the two superpowers .
today we 're moving to a multipolar world in which coordination is much more complicated , as we have seen at copenhagen . and this coordination may become even trickier with the introduction of cyber weapons .
why ? because no nation knows for sure whether its neighbor is about to attack .
so nations may live under the threat of what nobel prize winner thomas schelling called the " reciprocal fear of surprise attack , " as i don 't know if my neighbor is about to attack me or not -- i may never know -- so i might take the upper hand and attack first .
just last week , in a new york times article dated january 26 , 2010 , it was revealed for the first time that officials at the national security agency were considering the possibility of preemptive attacks in cases where the u.s. was about to be cyberattacked .
and these preemptive attacks might not just remain in cyberspace .
in may 2009 , general kevin chilton , commander of the u.s. nuclear forces , stated that in the event of cyberattacks against the u.s. , all options would be on the table .
cyber weapons do not replace conventional or nuclear weapons --
they just add a new layer to the existing system of terror .
but in doing so , they also add their own risk of triggering a conflict -- as we 've just seen , a very important risk -- and a risk we may have to confront with a collective security solution which includes all of us : european allies , nato members , our american friends and allies , our other western allies , and maybe , by forcing their hand a little , our russian and chinese partners .
the information technologies joel de rosnay was talking about , which were historically born from military research , are today on the verge of developing an offensive capability of destruction , which could tomorrow , if we 're not careful , completely destroy world peace .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jim _ toomey _ learning _ from _ sherman _ the _ shark.html
cartoonist jim toomey created the comic strip sherman 's lagoon , a wry look at underwater life starring sherman the talking shark . as he sketches some of his favorite sea creatures live onstage , toomey shares his love of the ocean and the stories it can tell .
animals , arts , entertainment , humor , oceans , science
939
jim toomey : learning from sherman the shark
cartoons are basically short stories .
i tried to find one that didn 't have a whole lot of words .
not all of them have happy endings .
so how did i get started cartooning ?
i doodled a lot as a kid , and if you spend enough time doodling , sooner or later , something happens : all your career options run out .
so you have to make a living cartooning .
actually , i fell in love with the ocean when i was a little boy , when i was about eight or nine .
this is some of my early work .
eventually , my mom took the red crayon away , so it was [ unclear ] .
but i 'd like to relay to you a childhood experience of mine that really made me see the ocean differently , and it 's become the foundation of my work because , i feel like , if in a day , i can see the ocean differently , then i can evoke that same kind of change in others , especially kids .
before that day , this is how i saw the ocean .
it 's just a big blue surface .
and this is how we 've seen the ocean since the beginning of time .
it 's a mystery .
there 's been a lot of folklore developed around the ocean , mostly negative .
and that prompted people to make maps like this , with all kinds of wonderful detail on the land , but when you get to the waters edge , the ocean looks like one giant puddle of blue paint .
and this is the way i saw the ocean at school -- as if to say , " all geography and science lessons stop at water 's edge .
this part 's not going to be on the test . " but that day i flew low over the islands -- it was a family trip to the caribbean , and i flew in a small plane low over the islands .
this is what i saw . i saw hills and valleys .
i saw forests and meadows .
i saw grottoes and secret gardens and places i 'd love to hide as a kid , if i could only breathe underwater .
and best of all , i saw the animals .
i saw a manta ray that looked as big as the plane i was flying in .
and i flew over a lagoon with a shark in it , and that was the day that my comic strip about a shark was born .
so from that day on , i was an ordinary kid walking around on dry land , but my head was down there , underwater .
up until that day , these were the animals that were most common in my life .
these were the ones i 'd like to draw -- all variations of four legs and fur .
but when you got to the ocean , my imagination was no competition for nature .
every time i 'd come up with a crazy cartoon character on the drawing board , i 'd find a critter in the ocean that was even crazier .
and the differences in scale between this tiny sea dragon and this enormous humpback whale was like something out of a science-fiction movie .
whenever i talk to kids , i always like to tell them , the biggest animal that ever lived is still alive .
it 's not a dinosaur ; it 's a whale , animals as big as office buildings still swimming around out there in our ocean .
speaking of dinosaurs , sharks are basically the same fish they were 300 million years ago .
so if you ever fantasize about going back in time and seeing what a dinosaur looked like , that 's what a dinosaur looks like .
so you have living dinosaurs and space aliens , animals that evolved in zero gravity in harsh conditions .
it 's just incredible ; no hollywood designer could come up with something more interesting than that .
or this fangtooth . the particles in the water make it look like it 's floating in outer space .
could you image if we looked through the hubble telescope and we saw that ?
it would start a whole new space race .
but instead , we stick a camera in the deep ocean , and we see a fish , and it doesn 't capture our imagination as a society .
we say to ourselves , " maybe we can make fish sticks with it or something . "
so , what i 'd like to do now is try a little drawing .
so , i 'm going to try to draw this fangtooth here .
i love to draw the deep sea fish , because they are so ugly , but beautiful in their own way .
maybe we can give him a little bioluminescence here -- give him a headlight , maybe a brake light , turn signals .
but it 's easy to see why these animals make such great cartoon characters , their shapes and sizes .
so some of them actually seem to have powers like superheroes in a comic book .
for instance , take these sea turtles .
they kind of have a sixth sense like superman 's x-ray vision .
they can sense the magnetic fields of the earth .
and they can use that sense to navigate hundreds of miles of open ocean .
i kind of give my turtle hands just to make them an easier cartoon character to work with .
or take this sea cucumber .
it 's not an animal we draw cartoons of or draw at all .
he 's like an underwater spiderman .
he shoots out these sticky webs to entangle his enemy .
of course , sea cucumbers shoot them out their rears , which , in my opinion , makes them much more interesting a superhero .
he can 't spin a web anytime ; he 's got to pull his pants down first .
or the blowfish .
the blowfish is like the incredible hulk .
it can change its body into a big , intimidating fish in a matter of seconds .
i 'm going to draw this blowfish uninflated .
and then i 'm going to attempt onscreen animation here .
let 's see .
try and inflate it .
" you talkin ' to me ? " see , he can inflate himself when he wants to be intimidating .
or take this swordfish .
could you imagine being born with a tool for a nose ?
do you think he wakes up in the morning , looks in the mirror and says , " somebody 's getting stabbed today . "
or this lionfish for instance .
imagine trying to make friends covered with razor-sharp poisonous barbs .
it 's not something you want to put on your facebook page , right ?
my characters are -- my lead character 's a shark named sherman .
he 's a great white shark .
and i kind of broke the mold with sherman .
i didn 't want to go with this ruthless predator image .
he 's kind of just out there making a living .
he 's sort of a homer simpson with fins .
and then his sidekick is a sea turtle , as i mentioned before , named filmore .
he uses his wonderful skills at navigation to wander the oceans , looking for a mate .
and he does manage to find them , but great navigation skills , lousy pick-up lines .
he never seems to settle on any particular girl .
i have a hermit crab named hawthorne , who doesn 't get a lot of respect as a hermit crab , so he kind of wishes he were a great white shark .
and then i 'll introduce you to one more character , this guy , ernest , who is basically a juvenile delinquent in a fish body .
so with characters , you can make stories .
sometimes making a story is as easy as putting two characters in a room and seeing what happens .
so , imagine a great white shark and a giant squid in the same bathroom .
or , sometimes i take them to places that people have never heard of because they 're underwater .
for instance , i took them skiing in the mid-atlantic range , which is this range of mountains in the middle of the atlantic .
i 've taken them to the sea of japan , where they met giant jellyfish .
i 've taken them camping in the kelp forests of california .
this next one here , i did a story on the census of marine life .
and that was a lot of fun because , as most of you know , it 's a real project we 've heard about .
but it was a chance for me to introduce readers to a lot of crazy undersea characters .
so we start off the story with ernest , who volunteers as a census taker .
he goes down and he meets this famous anglerfish .
then he meets the yeti crab , the famous vampire squid -- elusive , hard to find -- and the dumbo octopus , which looks so much like a cartoon in real life that really didn 't have to change a thing when i drew it .
i did another story on marine debris .
i was speaking to a lot of my friends in the conservation business , and they -- i asked them , " so what 's one issue you would like everyone to know more about ? "
and they said -- this one friend of mine said , " i 've got one word for you : plastic . "
and i told him , " well , i need something a little sexier than that .
plastic just is not going to do it . "
we sort of worked things out .
he wanted me to use words like polyvinyl chloride , which doesn 't really work in voice balloons very well .
i couldn 't fit them in .
so what i did was i made an adventure strip .
basically , this bottle travels a long way .
what i 'm trying to tell readers is that plastic doesn 't really go away ; it just continues to wash downstream . and a lot of it ends up washing into the ocean , which is a great story if you attach a couple characters to it , especially if they can 't stand each other , like these two .
so , i sent them to boise , idaho , where they dropped a plastic bottle into the boise sewer system .
and it ended up in the boise river and then on to the columbia river and then to the mouth of the columbia and to the pacific ocean and then on to this place called the great pacific garbage patch -- which is this giant pacific gyre in the north pacific , where a lot of this plastic ends up floating around -- and then back onto the lagoon .
so that was basically a buddy story with a plastic bottle following along .
so a lot of people remember the plastic bottle anyway , but we really talked about marine debris and plastic in the course of that one .
the third storyline i did about a year and a half ago was probably my most difficult .
it was on shark finning , and i felt really strongly about this issue . and i felt like , since my main character was a shark , the comic strip was a perfect vehicle for telling the public about this .
now , finning is the act of taking a shark , cutting the valuable fins off and throwing the live animal back in the water .
it 's cruel , it 's wasteful .
there 's nothing funny or entertaining about it , but i really wanted to take this issue on .
i had to kill my main character , who is a shark .
we start with sherman in a chinese restaurant , who gets a fortune that he 's about to get caught by a trawler , which he does .
and then he dies .
he gets finned , and then he gets thrown overboard .
ostensibly , he 's dead now .
and so i killed a character that 's been in the newspaper for 15 years .
so i got a lot of reader feedback on that one .
meanwhile , the other characters are talking about shark fin soup .
i do three or four strips after that where we explore the finning issue and the shark fin soup issue .
sherman 's up in shark heaven .
this is what i love about comic strips , you know .
you really don 't have to worry about the audience suspending its sense of disbelief because , if you start with a talking shark , readers pretty much check their disbelief at the door .
you can kind of do anything .
it becomes a near-death experience for sherman .
meanwhile , ernest finds his fins on the internet .
there was a real website based in china that actually sold shark fins , so i kind of exposed that .
and he clicks the " buy now " button .
and voila , next-day air , they show up , and they surgically reattach them .
i ended that series with a kind of a mail-in petition that encouraged our national marine fishery service , to force other countries to have a stronger stance with shark management .
thanks .
i 'd like to end with a little metaphor here .
i 've been trying to think of a metaphor to represent mission blue , and this is what i came up with .
imagine you 're in an enormous room , and it 's as dark as a cave .
and you can have anything in that room , anything you want , but you can 't see anything .
you 've been given one tool , a hammer .
so you wander around in the darkness , and you bump into something , and it feels like it 's made of stone .
it 's big , it 's heavy . you can 't carry it away , so you bang it with your hammer , and you break off a piece .
and you take the piece out into the daylight .
and you see you have a beautiful piece of white alabaster .
so you say to yourself , " well , that 's worth something . "
so you go back into the room , and you break this thing to pieces , and you haul it away .
and you find other things , and you break that up , and you haul those away .
and you 're getting all kinds of cool stuff .
and you hear other people doing the same thing .
so you get this sense of urgency , like you need to find as much stuff as possible as soon as possible .
and then some yells , " stop ! "
and they turn up the lights .
and you realize where you are ; you 're in the louvre .
and you 've taken all this complexity and beauty , and you 've turned it into a cheap commodity .
and that 's what we 're doing with the ocean .
and part of what mission blue is about is yelling , " stop ! "
so that each of us -- explorer , scientist , cartoonist , singer , chef -- can turn up the lights in their own way .
and that 's what i hope my comic strip does in a small way .
that 's why i like what i do .
thanks for listening .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / arthur _ benjamin _ does _ mathemagic.html
in a lively show , mathemagician arthur benjamin races a team of calculators to figure out 3-digit squares , solves another massive mental equation and guesses a few birthdays . how does he do it ? he 'll tell you .
education , entertainment , magic , math , performance
199
arthur benjamin does " mathemagic "
well , good morning ladies and gentlemen .
my name is art benjamin , and i am a " mathemagician . "
what that means is , i combine my loves of math and magic to do something i call " mathemagics . "
but before i get started , i have a quick question for the audience .
by any chance , did anyone happen to bring with them this morning a calculator ?
seriously , if you have a calculator with you , raise your hand , raise your hand .
i -- was -- your hand go up ?
now bring it out , bring it out . anybody else ?
i see , i see one way in the back .
you sir , that 's three ,
and anybody on this side here ?
ok , you over there on the aisle . would the four of you with calculators please bring out your calculators , then join me up on stage .
and let 's give these volunteers a nice round of applause .
that 's right . now , since i haven 't had the chance to work with these calculators , i need to make sure that they are all working properly .
would somebody get us started by giving us a two-digit number please ?
how about a two-digit number ?
audience : 22 .
arthur benjamin : 22 . and another two-digit number , sir ?
audience : 47 .
ab : multiply 22 times 47 , make sure you get 1,034 , or the calculators are not working . do all of you get 1,034 ? 1,034 ?
woman : no .
ab : 594 . let 's give three of them a nice round of applause there .
would you like to try a more standard calculator , just in case ?
ok , great .
what i 'm going to try and do then -- i notice that took some of you a little bit of time to get your answer .
that 's ok . i 'll give you a shortcut for multiplying even faster on the calculator .
there is something called the square of a number , which most of you know is taking a number and multiplying it by itself .
for instance , five squared would be ?
audience : 25 .
ab : 25 . now , the way we can square on most calculators -- let me demonstrate with this one -- is by taking the number , such as five , hitting " times " and then " equals , " and on most calculators that will give you the square .
on some of these ancient rpn calculators , you 've got an " x squared " button on it , will allow you to do the calculation even faster .
what i 'm going to try and do now is to square , in my head , four two-digit numbers faster than they can do on their calculators , even using the shortcut method .
what i 'll use is the second row this time , and i 'll get four of you -- one , two , three , four -- to each yell out a two-digit number , and if you would square the first number , and if you would square the second , the third and the fourth , i will try and race you to the answer . ok ?
so quickly , a two-digit number please .
audience : 37 .
ab : 37 squared , ok .
audience : 23 .
ab : 23 squared , ok .
audience : 59 .
ab : 59 squared , ok , and finally ?
audience : 93 .
ab : 93 squared . would you call out your answers , please ?
woman : 1369 . ab : 1369 .
woman : 529 .
ab : 529 .
man : 3481 .
ab : 3481 .
man : 8649 .
ab : thank you very much .
let me try to take this one step further .
i 'm going to try to square some three-digit numbers this time .
i won 't even write these down -- i 'll just call them out as they 're called out to me .
anyone i point to , call out a three-digit number .
anyone on our panel , verify the answer .
just give some indication if it 's right .
a three-digit number , sir , yes ?
audience : 987 .
ab : 987 squared is 974,169 .
yes ? good .
another , another three-digit -- -- another three-digit number , sir ?
audience : 457 .
ab : 457 squared is 205,849 .
205,849 ?
yes ?
ok , another , another three-digit number , sir ?
audience : 321 .
ab : 321 is 103,041 . 103,041 .
yes ? one more three-digit number please .
audience : oh , 722 .
ab : 722 is 500 -- ooh , that 's a harder one .
is that 513,284 ?
woman : yes .
ab : yes ? oh , one more , one more three-digit number please .
audience : 162 .
162 squared is 26,244 .
thank you very much .
let me try to take this one step further .
i 'm going to try to square a four-digit number this time .
now you can all take your time on this ; i will not beat you to the answer on this one , but i will try to get the answer right .
to make this a little bit more random , let 's take the fourth row this time , let 's say , one , two , three , four .
if each of you would call out a single digit between zero and nine , that will be the four-digit number that i 'll square .
audience : nine .
ab : nine .
audience : seven . ab : seven .
audience : five . ab : five .
audience : eight . ab : eight .
9,758 , this will take me a little bit of time , so bear with me .
95,218,564 ?
woman : yes .
ab : thank you very much .
now , i would attempt to square a five-digit number -- and i can -- but unfortunately most calculators cannot .
eight-digit capacity -- don 't you hate that ?
so , since we 've reached the limits of our calculators -- what 's that ? does yours go -- woman : i don 't know .
ab : does yours go higher ?
oh -- yours does ?
man : i can probably do it .
ab : i 'll talk to you later .
in the meanwhile , let me conclude the first part of my show by doing something a little trickier .
let 's take the largest number on the board here , 8649 .
would you each enter that on your calculator ?
and instead of squaring it this time , i want you to take that number and multiply it by any three-digit number that you want , but don 't tell me what you 're multiplying by -- just multiply it by any random three-digit number .
so you should have as an answer either a six-digit or probably a seven-digit number .
how many digits do you have , six or seven ?
seven , and yours ? woman : seven .
ab : seven ? seven ?
and , uncertain .
man : yeah .
ab : seven . is there any possible way that i could know what seven digit numbers you have ? say " no . "
good . then i shall attempt the impossible -- or at least the improbable .
what i 'd like each of you to do is to call out for me any six of your seven digits , any six of them , in any order you 'd like .
one digit at a time , i shall try and determine the digit you 've left out .
so , starting with your seven-digit number , call out any six of them please .
woman : one , ok , 197042 .
ab : did you leave out the number 6 ?
woman : yes , ab : good , ok , that 's one .
you have a seven-digit number , call out any six of them please .
woman : 44875 .
ab : i think i only heard five numbers . i -- wait -- 44875 -- did you leave out the number 6 ?
woman : yes . ab : same as she did , ok . you 've got a seven-digit number -- call out any six of them loud and clear .
man : 079044 . ab : i think you left out the number 3 ?
that 's three . the odds of me getting all four of these right by random guessing would be one in 10,000 : 10 to the fourth power .
ok , any six of them .
really scramble them up this time , please .
man : 263972 .
ab : did you leave out the number 7 ?
and let 's give all four of these people a nice round of applause .
thank you very much .
for my next number -- while i mentally recharge my batteries , i have one more question for the audience .
by any chance , does anybody here happen to know the day of the week that they were born on ?
if you think you know your birth day , raise your hand .
let 's see , starting with -- let 's start with a gentleman first ,
ok sir , what year was it , first of all ? that 's why i start with a gentleman first .
what year ?
audience : 1953 .
ab : 1953 , and the month ?
audience : november . ab : november what ?
audience : 23rd .
ab : 23rd -- was that a monday ? audience : yes .
yes , good . somebody else ? who else would like -- see i don 't -- haven 't seen any women 's hands up .
ok , it 's -- how about you , what year ?
audience : 1949 . ab : 1949 , and the month ?
audience : october . ab : october what ?
audience : fifth .
ab : fifth -- was that a wednesday ?
yes , my -- i 'll go way to the back right now , how about you ?
yell it out , what year ? audience : 1959 .
ab : 1959 , ok -- and the month ?
audience : february .
ab : february what ? audience : sixth .
ab : sixth -- was that a friday ? audience : yes .
good , how about the person behind her ?
call -- call -- what year was it ?
audience : 1947 . ab : 1947 , and the month ?
audience : may . ab : may what ?
audience : seventh . ab : seventh -- would that be a wednesday ?
audience : yes .
ab : thank you very much .
anybody here who 'd like to know the day of the week they were born ?
we can do it that way .
of course , i could just make up an answer and you wouldn 't know , so i come prepared for that .
i brought with me a book of calendars .
it goes as far back into the past as 1800 , ' cause you never know .
i didn 't mean to look at you , sir -- you were just sitting there .
anyway , chris , you can help me out here , if you wouldn 't mind .
this is a book of calendars , and i 'll ask -- who was it that wanted to know their birth day ? you sir ? ok .
what year was it , first of all ?
audience : 1966 .
ab : ' 66 -- turn to the calendar with 1966 -- and what month ?
audience : april . ab : april what ?
audience : 17th . ab : 17th -- i believe that was a sunday .
can you confirm , chris ?
chris anderson : yes . ab : yeah , ok . i 'll tell you what , chris : as long as you have that book in front of you , do me a favor , turn to a year outside of the 1900s ,
either into the 1800s or way into the 2000s -- that 'll be a much greater challenge for me .
what year , chris , would you like ?
ca : 1824 .
ab : 1824 , ok .
and what month ? ca : june .
ab : june what ? ca : sixth .
ab : sixth -- was that a sunday ?
ca : it was . ab : and it was cloudy .
good , thank you very much .
but i 'd like to wrap things up now by alluding to something from earlier in the presentation .
there was a gentleman up here who had a 10-digit calculator .
where is he , would you stand up , 10-digit guy ?
ok , well stand up for me just for a second , so i can see where you are .
ok , oh , ok -- you have a 10-digit calculator , sir , as well ?
ok , what i 'm going to try and do , is to square in my head a five-digit number requiring a 10-digit calculator .
but to make my job more interesting for you , as well as for me , i 'm going to do this problem thinking out loud .
so you can actually , honestly hear what 's going on in my mind while i do a calculation of this size .
now , i have to apologize to our magician friend lennart green .
i know as a magician we 're not supposed to reveal our secrets , but i 'm not too afraid that people are going to start doing my show next week , so -- i think we 're ok .
so , let 's see , let 's take a -- let 's take a different row of people , starting with you .
i 'll get five digits : one , two , three , four -- oh , i did this row already . let 's do the row before you , starting with you sir : one , two , three , four , five .
call out a single digit -- that will be the five-digit number that i will try to square . go ahead .
audience : five . ab : five .
audience : seven . ab : seven .
audience : six . ab : six .
audience : eight . ab : eight .
audience : three . ab : three .
57,683 squared . yuck .
let me explain to you how i 'm going to attempt this problem .
i 'm going to break the problem down into three parts .
i 'll do 57,000 squared , plus 683 squared , plus 57,000 times 683 times two .
add all those numbers together , and with any luck , arrive at the answer .
now , let me recap .
thank you .
while i explain something else -- -- i know , that you can use , right ?
while i do these calculation [ s ] , you might hear certain words , as opposed to numbers , creep into the calculation .
let me explain what that is .
this is a phonetic code , a mnemonic device that i use , that allows me to convert numbers into words .
i store them as words , and later on retrieve them as numbers .
i know it sounds complicated ; it 's not -- i just don 't want you to think you 're seeing something out of " rain man " here .
there 's definitely a method to my madness -- definitely , definitely . sorry .
if you want to talk to me about adhd afterwards , you can talk to me then . all right -- by the way , one last instruction , for my judges with the calculators -- ok , you know who you are -- there is at least a 50 percent chance that i will make a mistake here .
if i do , don 't tell me what the mistake is ;
just say , " you 're close , " or something like that , and i 'll try and figure out the answer -- which could be pretty entertaining in itself .
if , however , i am right , whatever you do , don 't keep it to yourself , ok ?
make sure everybody knows that i got the answer right , because this is my big finish , ok .
so , without any more stalling , here we go .
i 'll start the problem in the middle , with 57 times 683 .
now , 57 times 68 is 3,400 , plus 476 is 3876 , that 's 38,760 plus 171 , 38,760 plus 171 is 38,931 .
38,931 ; double that to get 77,862 .
77,862 becomes cookie fission , cookie fission is 77,822 .
that seems right , i 'll go on . cookie fission , ok .
next , i do 57 squared , which is 3,249 , so i can say , three billion . take the 249 , add that to cookie , 249 , oops , but i see a carry coming -- 249 -- add that to cookie , 250 plus 77 , is 327 million -- fission , fission , ok , finally , we do 683 squared , that 's 700 times 666 , plus 17 squared is 466,489 , rev up if i need it , rev up , take the 466 , add that to fission , to get , oh gee -- 328,489 .
audience : yeah !
ab : good .
thank you very much .
i hope you enjoyed mathemagics . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / clifford _ stoll _ on _ everything.html
clifford stoll captivates his audience with a wildly energetic sprinkling of anecdotes , observations , asides -- and even a science experiment . after all , by his own definition , he 's a scientist : " once i do something , i want to do something else . "
culture , education , science , technology , web
237
clifford stoll on ... everything
i 'm delighted to be here .
i 'm honored by the invitation , and thanks .
i would love to talk about stuff that i 'm interested in , but unfortunately , i suspect that what i 'm interested in won 't interest many other people .
first off , my badge says i 'm an astronomer .
i would love to talk about my astronomy , but i suspect that the number of people who are interested in radiative transfer in non-gray atmospheres and polarization of light in jupiter 's upper atmosphere are the number of people who 'd fit in a bus shelter .
so i 'm not going to talk about that .
it would be just as much fun to talk about some stuff that happened in 1986 and 1987 , when a computer hacker is breaking into our systems over at lawrence berkeley labs .
and i caught the guys , and they turned out to be working for what was then the soviet kgb , and stealing information and selling it .
and i 'd love to talk about that -- and it 'd be fun -- but , 20 years later ...
i find computer security , frankly , to be kind of boring .
it 's tedious .
i 'm -- the first time you do something , it 's science .
the second time , it 's engineering .
a third time , it 's just being a technician .
i 'm a scientist . once i do something , i do something else .
so , i 'm not going to talk about that .
nor am i going to talk about what i think are obvious statements from my first book , " silicon snake oil , " or my second book , nor am i going to talk about why i believe computers don 't belong in schools .
i feel that there 's a massive and bizarre idea going around that we have to bring more computers into schools .
my idea is : no ! no !
get them out of schools , and keep them out of schools .
and i 'd love to talk about this , but i think the argument is so obvious to anyone who 's hung around a fourth grade classroom that it doesn 't need much talking about -- but i guess i may be very wrong about that , and everything else that i 've said .
so don 't go back and read my dissertation .
it probably has lies in it as well .
having said that , i outlined my talk about five minutes ago .
and if you look at it over here , the main thing i wrote on my thumb was the future .
i 'm supposed to talk about the future , yes ?
oh , right . and my feeling is , asking me to talk about the future is bizarre , because i 've got gray hair , and so , it 's kind of silly for me to talk about the future .
in fact , i think that if you really want to know what the future 's going to be , if you really want to know about the future , don 't ask a technologist , a scientist , a physicist .
no ! don 't ask somebody who 's writing code .
no , if you want to know what society 's going to be like in 20 years , ask a kindergarten teacher .
they know .
in fact , don 't ask just any kindergarten teacher , ask an experienced one .
they 're the ones who know what society is going to be like in another generation .
i don 't . nor , i suspect , do many other people who are talking about what the future will bring .
certainly , all of us can imagine these cool new things that are going to be there .
but to me , things aren 't the future .
what i ask myself is , what 's society is going to be like , when the kids today are phenomenally good at text messaging and spend a huge amount of on-screen time , but have never gone bowling together ?
change is happening , and the change that is happening is not one that is in software .
but that 's not what i 'm going to talk about .
i 'd love to talk about it , it 'd be fun , but i want to talk about what i 'm doing now . what am i doing now ?
oh -- the other thing that i think i 'd like to talk about is right over here . right over here .
is that visible ? what i 'd like to talk about is one-sided things .
i would dearly love to talk about things that have one side .
because i love mobius loops . i not only love mobius loops , but i 'm one of the very few people , if not the only person in the world , that makes klein bottles .
right away , i hope that all of your eyes glaze over .
this is a klein bottle .
for those of you in the audience who know , you roll your eyes and say , yup , i know all about it .
it 's one sided . it 's a bottle whose inside is its outside .
it has zero volume . and it 's non-orientable .
it has wonderful properties .
if you take two mobius loops and sew their common edge together , you get one of these , and i make them out of glass .
and i 'd love to talk to you about this , but i don 't have much in the way of ... things to say because -- however , the " d " in ted of course stands for design .
just two weeks ago i made -- you know , i 've been making small , medium and big klein bottles for the trade .
but what i 've just made -- and i 'm delighted to show you , first time in public here .
this is a klein bottle wine bottle , which , although in four dimensions it shouldn 't be able to hold any fluid at all , it 's perfectly capable of doing so because our universe has only three spatial dimensions .
and because our universe is only three spatial dimensions , it can hold fluids .
so it 's highly -- that one 's the cool one .
that was a month of my life .
but although i would love to talk about topology with you , i 'm not going to .
instead , i 'm going to mention my mom , who passed away last summer .
had collected photographs of me , as mothers will do .
could somebody put this guy up ?
and i looked over her album and she had collected a picture of me , standing -- well , sitting -- in 1969 , in front of a bunch of dials .
and i looked at it , and said , oh my god , that was me , when i was working at the electronic music studio !
as a technician , repairing and maintaining the electronic music studio at suny buffalo . and wow !
way back machine . and i said to myself , oh yeah !
and it sent me back .
soon after that , i found in another picture that she had , a picture of me .
this guy over here of course is me .
this man is robert moog , the inventor of the moog synthesizer , who passed away this past august .
robert moog was a generous , kind person , extraordinarily competent engineer .
a musician who took time from his life to teach me , a sophomore , a freshman at suny buffalo .
he 'd come up from trumansburg to teach me not just about the moog synthesizer , but we 'd be sitting there -- i 'm studying physics at the time . this is 1969 , 70 , 71 .
we 're studying physics , i 'm studying physics , and he 's saying , " that 's a good thing to do .
don 't get caught up in electronic music if you 're doing physics . "
mentoring me . he 'd come up and spend hours and hours with me .
he wrote a letter of recommendation for me to get into graduate school .
in the background , my bicycle .
i realize that this picture was taken at a friend 's living room .
bob moog came by and hauled a whole pile of equipment to show greg flint and i things about this .
we sat around talking about fourier transforms ,
bessel functions , modulation transfer functions , stuff like this .
bob 's passing this past summer has been a loss to all of us .
anyone who 's a musician has been profoundly influenced by robert moog .
and i 'll just say what i 'm about to do . what i 'm about to do -- i hope you can recognize that there 's a distorted sine wave , almost a triangular wave upon this hewlett-packard oscilloscope .
oh , cool . i can get to this place over here , right ?
kids . kids is what i 'm going to talk about -- is that okay ?
it says kids over here , that 's what i 'd like to talk about .
i 've decided that , for me at least , i don 't have a big enough head .
so i think locally and i act locally .
i feel that the best way i can help out anything is to help out very , very locally .
so ph.d. this , and degree there , and the yadda yadda .
i was talking about this stuff to some schoolteachers about a year ago .
and one of them , several of them would come up to me and say , " well , how come you ain 't teaching ? "
and i said , " well , i 've taught graduate -- i 've had graduate students , i 've taught undergraduate classes . "
no , they said , " if you 're so into kids and all this stuff , how come you ain 't over here on the front lines ?
put your money where you mouth is . "
is true . is true . i teach eighth-grade science four days a week .
not just showing up every now and then .
no , no , no , no , no . i take attendance .
i take lunch hour .
this is not -- no , no , no , this is not claps .
i strongly suggest that this is a good thing for each of you to do .
not just show up to class every now and then .
teach a solid week . okay , i 'm teaching three-quarters time , but good enough .
one of the things that i 've done for my science students is to tell them , " look , i 'm going to teach you college-level physics .
no calculus , i 'll cut out that .
you won 't need to know trig .
but you will need to know eighth-grade algebra , and we 're going to do serious experiments .
none of this open-to-chapter-seven-and-do-all-the-odd-problem-sets .
we 're going to be doing genuine physics . "
and that 's one of the things i thought i 'd do right now .
oh , before i even turn that on , one of the things that we did about three weeks ago in my class -- this is through the lens , and one of the things we used a lens for was to measure the speed of light .
my students in el cerrito -- with my help , of course , and with the help of a very beat up oscilloscope -- measured the speed of light .
we were off by 25 percent . how many eighth graders do you know of who have measured the speed of light ?
in addition to that , we 've measured the speed of sound .
i 'd love to measure the speed of light here .
i was all set to do it and i was thinking , " aw man , "
i was just going to impose upon the powers that be , and measure the speed of light .
and i 'm all set to do it . i 'm all set to do it , but then it turns out that to set up here , you have like 10 minutes to set up !
and there 's no time to do it .
so , next time , maybe , i 'll measure the speed of light !
but meanwhile , let 's measure the speed of sound !
well , the obvious way to measure the speed of sound is to bounce sound off something and look at the echo .
but , probably -- one of my students , ariel [ unclear ] , said , " could we measure the speed of light using the wave equation ? "
and all of you know the wave equation is the frequency times the wavelength of any wave ...
is a constant . when the frequency goes up , the wavelength comes down . wavelength goes up , frequency goes down . so , if we have a wave here -- over here , that 's what 's interesting -- as the pitch goes up , things get closer , pitch goes down , things stretch out .
right ? this is simple physics .
all of you know this from eighth grade , remember ?
what they didn 't tell you in physics -- in eighth-grade physics -- but they should have , and i wish they had , was that if you multiply the frequency times the wavelength of sound or light , you get a constant .
and that constant is the speed of sound .
so , in order to measure the speed of sound , all i 've got to do is know its frequency . well , that 's easy .
i 've got a frequency counter right here .
set it up to around a , above a , above a. there 's an a , more or less .
now , so i know the frequency .
it 's 1.76 kilohertz . i measure its wavelength .
all i need now is to flip on another beam , and the bottom beam is me talking , right ?
so anytime i talk , you 'd see it on the screen .
i 'll put it over here , and as i move this away from the source , you 'll notice the spiral .
the slinky moves . we 're going through different nodes of the wave , coming out this way .
those of you who are physicists , i hear you rolling your eyes , but bear with me .
to measure the wavelength , all i need to do is measure the distance from here -- one full wave -- over to here .
from here to here is the wavelength of sound .
so , i 'll put a measuring tape here , measuring tape here , move it back over to here .
i 've moved the microphone 20 centimeters .
0.2 meters from here , back to here , 20 centimeters .
ok , let 's go back to mr. elmo .
and we 'll say the frequency is 1.76 kilohertz , or 1760 .
the wavelength was 0.2 meters .
let 's figure out what this is .
1.76 times 0.2 over here is 352 meters per second .
if you look it up in the book , it 's really 343 .
but , here with kludgy material , and lousy drink -- we 've been able to measure the speed of sound to -- not bad . pretty good .
all of which comes to what i wanted to say .
go back to this picture of me a million years ago .
it was 1971 , the vietnam war was going on , and i 'm like , " oh my god ! "
i 'm studying physics : landau , lipschitz , resnick and halliday .
i 'm going home for a midterm . a riot 's going on on campus .
there 's a riot ! hey , elmo 's done : off .
there 's a riot going on on campus , and the police are chasing me , right ?
i 'm walking across campus . cop comes and looks at me and says , " you ! you 're a student . "
pulls out a gun . goes boom !
and a tear gas canister the size of a pepsi can goes by my head . whoosh !
i get a breath of tear gas and i can 't breathe .
this cop comes after me with a rifle .
he wants to clunk me over the head !
i 'm saying , " i got to clear out of here ! "
i go running across campus quick as i can . i duck into hayes hall .
it 's one of these bell-tower buildings .
the cop 's chasing me .
chasing me up the first floor , second floor , third floor .
chases me into this room .
the entranceway to the bell tower .
i slam the door behind me , climb up , go past this place where i see a pendulum ticking .
and i 'm thinking , " oh yeah , the square root of the length is proportional to its period . "
i keep climbing up , go back .
i go to a place where a dowel splits off .
there 's a clock , clock , clock , clock .
the time 's going backwards because i 'm inside of it .
i 'm thinking of lorenz contractions and einsteinian relativity .
i climb up , and there 's this place , way in the back , that you climb up this wooden ladder .
i pop up the top , and there 's a cupola .
a dome , one of these ten-foot domes .
i 'm looking out and i 'm seeing the cops bashing students ' heads , shooting tear gas , and watching students throwing bricks .
and i 'm asking , " what am i doing here ? why am i here ? "
then i remember what my english teacher in high school said . namely , that when they cast bells , they write inscriptions on them .
so , i wipe the pigeon manure off one of the bells , and i look at it .
i 'm asking myself , " why am i here ? "
so , at this time , i 'd like to tell you the words inscribed upon the hayes hall tower bells : " all truth is one .
in this light , may science and religion endeavor here for the steady evolution of mankind , from darkness to light , from narrowness to broad-mindedness , from prejudice to tolerance .
it is the voice of life , which calls us to come and learn . "
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / graham _ hill _ less _ stuff _ more _ happiness.html
writer and designer graham hill asks : can having less stuff , in less room , lead to more happiness ? he makes the case for taking up less space , and lays out three rules for editing your life .
culture , design , happiness , media , shopping
1238
graham hill : less stuff , more happiness
what 's in the box ?
whatever it is must be pretty important , because i 've traveled with it , moved it , from apartment to apartment to apartment .
sound familiar ?
did you know that we americans have about three times the amount of space we did 50 years ago ?
three times .
so you 'd think , with all this extra space , we 'd have plenty of room for all our stuff .
nope .
there 's a new industry in town , a 22 billion-dollar , 2.2 billion sq. ft. industry : that of personal storage .
so we 've got triple the space , but we 've become such good shoppers that we need even more space .
so where does this lead ?
lots of credit card debt , huge environmental footprints , and perhaps not coincidentally , our happiness levels flat-lined over the same 50 years .
well i 'm here to suggest there 's a better way , that less might actually equal more .
i bet most of us have experienced at some point the joys of less : college -- in your dorm , traveling -- in a hotel room , camping -- rig up basically nothing , maybe a boat .
whatever it was for you , i bet that , among other things , this gave you a little more freedom , a little more time .
so i 'm going to suggest that less stuff and less space are going to equal a smaller footprint .
it 's actually a great way to save you some money .
and it 's going to give you a little more ease in your life .
so i started a project called life edited at lifeedited.org to further this conversation and to find some great solutions in this area .
first up : crowd-sourcing my 420 sq. ft. apartment in manhattan with partners mutopo and jovoto.com .
i wanted it all -- home office , sit down dinner for 10 , room for guests , and all my kite surfing gear .
with over 300 entries from around the world , i got it , my own little jewel box .
by buying a space that was 420 sq. ft. instead of 600 , immediately i 'm saving 200 grand .
smaller space is going to make for smaller utilities -- save some more money there , but also a smaller footprint .
and because it 's really designed around an edited set of possessions -- my favorite stuff -- and really designed for me , i 'm really excited to be there .
so how can you live little ?
three main approaches .
first of all , you have to edit ruthlessly .
we 've got to clear the arteries of our lives .
and that shirt that i hadn 't worn in years ?
it 's time for me to let it go .
we 've got to cut the extraneous out of our lives , and we 've got to learn to stem the inflow .
we need to think before we buy .
ask ourselves , " is that really going to make me happier ? truly ? " by all means , we should buy and own some great stuff .
but we want stuff that we 're going to love for years , not just stuff .
secondly , our new mantra : small is sexy .
we want space efficiency .
we want things that are designed for how they 're used the vast majority of the time , not that rare event .
why have a six burner stove when you rarely use three ?
so we want things that nest , we want things that stack , and we want it digitized .
you can take paperwork , books , movies , and you can make it disappear -- it 's magic .
finally , we want multifunctional spaces and housewares -- a sink combined with a toilet , a dining table becomes a bed -- same space , a little side table stretches out to seat 10 .
in the winning life edited scheme in a render here , we combine a moving wall with transformer furniture to get a lot out of the space .
look at the coffee table -- it grows in height and width to seat 10 .
my office folds away ,
easily hidden .
my bed just pops out of the wall with two fingers .
guests ? move the moving wall , have some fold-down guest beds .
and of course , my own movie theater .
so i 'm not saying that we all need to live in 420 sq. ft .
but consider the benefits of an edited life .
go from 3,000 to 2,000 , from 1,500 to 1,000 .
most of us , maybe all of us , are here pretty happily for a bunch of days with a couple of bags , maybe a small space , a hotel room .
so when you go home and you walk through your front door , take a second and ask yourselves , " could i do with a little life editing ?
would that give me a little more freedom ?
maybe a little more time ? " what 's in the box ?
it doesn 't really matter .
i know i don 't need it .
what 's in yours ?
maybe , just maybe , less might equal more .
so let 's make room for the good stuff .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / stuart _ brown _ says _ play _ is _ more _ than _ fun _ it _ s _ vital.html
a pioneer in research on play , dr. stuart brown says humor , games , roughhousing , flirtation and fantasy are more than just fun . plenty of play in childhood makes for happy , smart adults -- and keeping it up can make us smarter at any age .
brain , children , education , entertainment , gaming , happiness , health , psychology , science
483
stuart brown says play is more than fun
so , here we go : a flyby of play . it 's got to be serious if the new york times puts a cover story of their february 17th sunday magazine about play .
at the bottom of this , it says , " it 's deeper than gender .
seriously , but dangerously fun .
and a sandbox for new ideas about evolution . "
not bad , except if you look at that cover , what 's missing ?
you see any adults ?
well , lets go back to the 15th century . this is a courtyard in europe , and a mixture of 124 different kinds of play .
all ages , solo play , body play , games , taunting .
and there it is . and i think this is a typical picture of what it was like in a courtyard then .
i think we may have lost something in our culture .
so i 'm gonna take you through what i think is a remarkable sequence .
north of churchill , manitoba , in october and november , there 's no ice on hudson bay .
and this polar bear that you see , this 1200-pound male , he 's wild and fairly hungry .
and norbert rosing , a german photographer , is there on scene , making a series of photos of these huskies , who are tethered .
and from out of stage left comes this wild , male polar bear , with a predatory gaze .
any of you who 've been to africa or had a junkyard dog come after you , there is a fixed kind of predatory gaze that you know you 're in trouble .
but on the other side of that predatory gaze is a female husky in a play bow , wagging her tail .
and something very unusual happens .
that fixed behavior -- which is rigid and stereotyped and ends up with a meal -- changes .
and this polar bear stands over the husky ,
no claws extended , no fangs taking a look .
and they begin an incredible ballet .
a play ballet .
this is in nature : it overrides a carnivorous nature and what otherwise would have been a short fight to the death .
and if you 'll begin to look closely at the husky that 's bearing her throat to the polar bear , and look a little more closely , they 're in an altered state .
they 're in a state of play .
and it 's that state that allows these two creatures to explore the possible .
they are beginning to do something that neither would have done without the play signals .
and it is a marvelous example of how a differential in power can be overridden by a process of nature that 's within all of us .
now how did i get involved in this ?
john mentioned that i 've done some work with murderers , and i have .
the texas tower murderer opened my eyes , in retrospect , when we studied his tragic mass murder , to the importance of play , in that that individual , by deep study , was found to have severe play deprivation .
charles whitman was his name .
and our committee , which consisted of a lot of hard scientists , did feel at the end of that study that the absence of play and a progressive suppression of developmentally normal play led him to be more vulnerable to the tragedy that he perpetrated .
and that finding has stood the test of time -- unfortunately even into more recent times , at virginia tech .
and other studies of populations at risk sensitized me to the importance of play , but i didn 't really understand what it was .
and it was many years in taking play histories of individuals before i really began to recognize that i didn 't really have a full understanding of it .
and i don 't think any of us has a full understanding of it , by any means .
but there are ways of looking at it that i think can give you -- give us all a taxonomy , a way of thinking about it .
and this image is , for humans , the beginning point of play .
when that mother and infant lock eyes , and the infant 's old enough to have a social smile , what happens -- spontaneously -- is the eruption of joy on the part of the mother .
and she begins to babble and coo and smile , and so does the baby .
if we 've got them wired up with an electroencephalogram , the right brain of each of them becomes attuned , so that the joyful emergence of this earliest of play scenes and the physiology of that is something we 're beginning to get a handle on .
and i 'd like you to think that every bit of more complex play builds on this base for us humans .
and so now i 'm going to take you through sort of a way of looking at play , but it 's never just singularly one thing .
we 're going to look at body play , which is a spontaneous desire to get ourselves out of gravity .
this is a mountain goat .
if you 're having a bad day , try this : jump up and down , wiggle around -- you 're going to feel better .
and you may feel like this character , who is also just doing it for its own sake .
it doesn 't have a particular purpose , and that 's what 's great about play .
if its purpose is more important than the act of doing it , it 's probably not play .
and there 's a whole other type of play , which is object play .
and this japanese macaque has made a snowball , and he or she 's going to roll down a hill .
and -- they don 't throw it at each other , but this is a fundamental part of being playful .
the human hand , in manipulation of objects , is the hand in search of a brain ;
the brain is in search of a hand ; and play is the medium by which those two are linked in the best way .
jpl we heard this morning -- jpl is an incredible place .
they have located two consultants , frank wilson and nate johnson ,
who are -- frank wilson is a neurologist , nate johnson is a mechanic .
he taught mechanics in a high school in long beach , and found that his students were no longer able to solve problems .
and he tried to figure out why . and he came to the conclusion , quite on his own , that the students who could no longer solve problems , such as fixing cars , hadn 't worked with their hands .
frank wilson had written a book called " the hand . "
they got together -- jpl hired them .
now jpl , nasa and boeing , before they will hire a research and development problem solver -- even if they 're summa cum laude from harvard or cal tech -- if they haven 't fixed cars , haven 't done stuff with their hands early in life , played with their hands , they can 't problem-solve as well .
so play is practical , and it 's very important .
now one of the things about play is that it is born by curiosity and exploration .
but it has to be safe exploration .
this happens to be ok -- he 's an anatomically interested little boy and that 's his mom . other situations wouldn 't be quite so good .
but curiosity , exploration , are part of the play scene .
if you want to belong , you need social play .
and social play is part of what we 're about here today , and is a byproduct of the play scene .
rough and tumble play .
these lionesses , seen from a distance , looked like they were fighting .
but if you look closely , they 're kind of like the polar bear and husky : no claws , flat fur , soft eyes , open mouth with no fangs , balletic movements , curvilinear movements -- all specific to play .
and rough-and-tumble play is a great learning medium for all of us .
preschool kids , for example , should be allowed to dive , hit , whistle , scream , be chaotic , and develop through that a lot of emotional regulation and a lot of the other social byproducts -- cognitive , emotional and physical -- that come as a part of rough and tumble play .
spectator play , ritual play -- we 're involved in some of that .
those of you who are from boston know that this was the moment -- rare -- where the red sox won the world series .
but take a look at the face and the body language of everybody in this fuzzy picture , and you can get a sense that they 're all at play .
imaginative play .
i love this picture because my daughter , who 's now almost 40 , is in this picture , but it reminds me of her storytelling and her imagination , her ability to spin yarns at this age -- preschool .
a really important part of being a player is imaginative solo play .
and i love this one , because it 's also what we 're about .
we all have an internal narrative that 's our own inner story .
the unit of intelligibility of most of our brains is the story .
i 'm telling you a story today about play .
well , this bushman , i think , is talking about the fish that got away that was that long , but it 's a fundamental part of the play scene .
so what does play do for the brain ?
well , a lot .
we don 't know a whole lot about what it does for the human brain , because funding has not been exactly heavy for research on play .
i walked into the carnegie asking for a grant .
they 'd given me a large grant when i was an academician for the study of felony drunken drivers , and i thought i had a pretty good track record ,
and by the time i had spent half an hour talking about play , it was obvious that they were not -- did not feel that play was serious .
i think that -- that 's a few years back -- i think that wave is past , and the play wave is cresting , because there is some good science .
nothing lights up the brain like play .
three-dimensional play fires up the cerebellum , puts a lot of impulses into the frontal lobe -- the executive portion -- helps contextual memory be developed , and -- and , and , and .
so it 's -- for me , its been an extremely nourishing scholarly adventure to look at the neuroscience that 's associated with play , and to bring together people who in their individual disciplines hadn 't really thought of it that way .
and that 's part of what the national institute for play is all about .
and this is one of the ways you can study play -- is to get a 256-lead electroencephalogram .
i 'm sorry i don 't have a playful-looking subject , but it allows mobility , which has limited the actual study of play .
and we 've got a mother-infant play scenario that we 're hoping to complete underway at the moment .
the reason i put this here is also to queue up my thoughts about objectifying what play does .
the animal world has objectified it .
in the animal world , if you take rats , who are hardwired to play at a certain period of their juvenile years and you suppress play -- they squeak , they wrestle , they pin each other , that 's part of their play .
if you stop that behavior on one group that you 're experimenting with , and you allow it in another group that you 're experimenting with , and then you present those rats with a cat odor-saturated collar , they 're hardwired to flee and hide .
pretty smart -- they don 't want to get killed by a cat .
so what happens ?
they both hide out .
the non-players never come out -- they die .
the players slowly explore the environment , and begin again to test things out .
that says to me , at least in rats -- and i think they have the same neurotransmitters that we do and a similar cortical architecture -- that play may be pretty important for our survival .
and , and , and -- there are a lot more animal studies that i could talk about .
now , this is a consequence of play deprivation .
this took a long time -- i had to get homer down and put him through the fmri and the spect and multiple eegs , but as a couch potato , his brain has shrunk .
and we do know that in domestic animals and others , when they 're play deprived , they don 't -- and rats also -- they don 't develop a brain that is normal .
now , the program says that the opposite of play is not work , it 's depression .
and i think if you think about life without play -- no humor , no flirtation , no movies , no games , no fantasy and , and , and .
try and imagine a culture or a life , adult or otherwise without play .
and the thing that 's so unique about our species is that we 're really designed to play through our whole lifetime .
and we all have capacity to play signal .
nobody misses that dog i took a picture of on a carmel beach a couple of weeks ago .
what 's going to follow from that behavior is play .
and you can trust it .
the basis of human trust is established through play signals .
and we begin to lose those signals , culturally and otherwise , as adults .
that 's a shame .
i think we 've got a lot of learning to do .
now , jane goodall has here a play face along with one of her favorite chimps .
so part of the signaling system of play has to do with vocal , facial , body , gestural .
you know , you can tell -- and i think when we 're getting into collective play , its really important for groups to gain a sense of safety through their own sharing of play signals .
you may not know this word ,
but it should be your biological first name and last name .
because neoteny means the retention of immature qualities into adulthood .
and we are , by physical anthropologists , by many , many studies , the most neotenous , the most youthful , the most flexible , the most plastic of all creatures .
and therefore , the most playful .
and this gives us a leg up on adaptability .
now , there is a way of looking at play that i also want to emphasize here , which is the play history .
your own personal play history is unique , and often is not something we think about particularly .
this is a book written by a consummate player by the name of kevin carroll .
kevin carroll came from extremely deprived circumstances : alcoholic mother , absent father , inner-city philadelphia , black , had to take care of a younger brother .
found that when he looked at a playground out of a window into which he had been confined , he felt something different .
and so he followed up on it .
and his life -- the transformation of his life from deprivation and what one would expect -- potentially prison or death -- he become a linguist , a trainer for the 76ers and now is a motivational speaker .
and he gives play as a transformative force over his entire life .
now there 's another play history that i think is a work in progress .
those of you who remember al gore , during the first term and then during his successful but unelected run for the presidency , may remember him as being kind of wooden and not entirely his own person ,
at least in public .
and looking at his history , which is common in the press , it seems to me , at least -- looking at it from a shrink 's point of view -- that a lot of his life was programmed .
summers were hard , hard work , in the heat of tennessee summers .
he had the expectations of his senatorial father and washington , d.c .
and although i think he certainly had the capacity for play -- because i do know something about that -- he wasn 't as empowered , i think , as he now is by paying attention to what is his own passion and his own inner drive , which i think has its basis in all of us in our play history .
so what i would encourage on an individual level to do , is to explore backwards as far as you can go to the most clear , joyful , playful image that you have ,
whether it 's with a toy , on a birthday or on a vacation .
and begin to build to build from the emotion of that into how that connects with your life now .
and you 'll find , you may change jobs -- which has happened to a number people when i 've had them do this -- in order to be more empowered through their play .
or you 'll be able to enrich your life by prioritizing it and paying attention to it .
most of us work with groups , and i put this up because the d.school , the design school at stanford , thanks to david kelley and a lot of others who have been visionary about its establishment , has allowed a group of us to get together and create a course called " from play to innovation . " and you 'll see this course is to investigate the human state of play , which is kind of like the polar bear-husky state and its importance to creative thinking :
" to explore play behavior , its development and its biological basis ;
to apply those principles , through design thinking , to promote innovation in the corporate world ;
and the students will work with real-world partners on design projects with widespread application . "
this is our maiden voyage in this .
we 're about two and a half , three months into it , and it 's really been fun .
there is our star pupil , this labrador , who taught a lot of us what a state of play is , and an extremely aged and decrepit professor in charge there .
and brendan boyle , rich crandall -- and on the far right is , i think , a person who will be in cahoots with george smoot for a nobel prize -- stuart thompson , in neuroscience .
so we 've had brendan , who 's from ideo , and the rest of us sitting aside and watching these students as they put play principles into practice in the classroom .
and one of their projects was to see what makes meetings boring , and to try and do something about it .
so what will follow is a student-made film about just that .
narrator : flow is the mental state of apparition in which the person is fully immersed in what he or she is doing .
characterized by a feeling of energized focus , full involvement and success in the process of the activity .
an important key insight that we learned about meetings is that people pack them in one after another , disruptive to the day .
attendees at meetings don 't know when they 'll get back to the task that they left at their desk .
but it doesn 't have to be that way .
some sage and repeatedly furry monks at this place called the d.school designed a meeting that you can literally step out of when it 's over .
take the meeting off , and have peace of mind that you can come back to me .
because when you need it again , the meeting is literally hanging in your closet .
the wearable meeting .
because when you put it on , you immediately get everything you need to have a fun and productive and useful meeting .
but when you take it off --
that 's when the real action happens .
stuart brown : so i would encourage you all to engage not in the work-play differential -- where you set aside time to play -- but where your life becomes infused minute by minute , hour by hour , with body , object , social , fantasy , transformational kinds of play .
and i think you 'll have a better and more empowered life .
thank you .
john hockenberry : so it sounds to me like what you 're saying is that there may be some temptation on the part of people to look at your work and go -- i think i 've heard this , in my kind of pop psychological understanding of play , that somehow , the way animals and humans deal with play , is that it 's some sort of rehearsal for adult activity .
your work seems to suggest that that is powerfully wrong .
sb : yeah , i don 't think that 's accurate , and i think probably because animals have taught us that .
if you stop a cat from playing -- which you can do , and we 've all seen how cats bat around stuff -- they 're just as good predators as they would be if they hadn 't played .
and if you imagine a kid pretending to be king kong , or a race car driver , or a fireman , they don 't all become race car drivers or firemen , you know .
so there 's a disconnect between preparation for the future -- which is what most people are comfortable in thinking about play as -- and thinking of it as a separate biological entity .
and this is where my chasing animals for four , five years really changed my perspective from a clinician to what i am now , which is that play has a biological place , just like sleep and dreams do .
and if you look at sleep and dreams biologically , animals sleep and dream , and they rehearse and they do some other things that help memory and that are a very important part of sleep and dreams .
the next step of evolution in mammals and creatures with divinely superfluous neurons will be to play .
and the fact that the polar bear and husky or magpie and a bear or you and i and our dogs can crossover and have that experience sets play aside as something separate .
and its hugely important in learning and crafting the brain .
so it 's not just something you do in your spare time .
jh : how do you keep -- and i know you 're part of the scientific research community , and you have to justify your existence with grants and proposals like everyone else -- how do you prevent -- and some of the data that you 've produced , the good science that you 're talking about you 've produced , is hot to handle .
how do you prevent either the media 's interpretation of your work or the scientific community 's interpretation of the implications of your work , kind of like the mozart metaphor , where , " oh , mris show
that play enhances your intelligence .
well , let 's round these kids up , put them in pens and make them play for months at a time ; they 'll all be geniuses and go to harvard . "
how do you prevent people from taking that sort of action on the data that you 're developing ?
sb : well , i think the only way i know to do it is to have accumulated the advisers that i have who go from practitioners -- who can establish through improvisational play or clowning or whatever -- a state of play .
so people know that it 's there .
and then you get an fmri specialist , and you get frank wilson , and you get other kinds of hard scientists , including neuroendocrinologists .
and you get them into a group together focused on play , and it 's pretty hard not to take it seriously .
unfortunately , that hasn 't been done sufficiently for the national science foundation , national institute of mental health or anybody else to really look at it in this way seriously .
i mean you don 't hear about anything that 's like cancer or heart disease associated with play .
and yet i see it as something that 's just as basic for survival -- long term -- as learning some of the basic things about public health .
jh : stuart brown , thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / homaro _ cantu _ ben _ roche _ cooking _ as _ alchemy.html
homaro cantu and ben roche come from moto , a chicago restaurant that plays with new ways to cook and eat food . but beyond the fun and flavor-tripping , there 's a serious intent : can we use new food technology for good ?
agriculture , business , creativity , culture , food
1304
homaro cantu + ben roche : cooking as alchemy
ben roche : so i 'm ben , by the way . homaro cantu : and i 'm homaro .
br : and we 're chefs . so when moto opened in 2004 , people didn 't really know what to expect . a lot of people thought that it was a japanese restaurant , and maybe it was the name , maybe it was the logo , which was like a japanese character , but anyway , we had all these requests for japanese food , which is really not what we did . and after about the ten thousandth request for a maki roll , we decided to give the people what they wanted . so this picture is an example of printed food , and this was the first foray into what we like to call flavor transformation . so this is all the ingredients , all the flavor of , you know , a standard maki roll , printed onto a little piece of paper .
hc : so our diners started to get bored with this idea , and we decided to give them the same course twice , so here we actually took an element from the maki roll and and took a picture of a dish and then basically served that picture with the dish .
so this dish in particular is basically champagne with seafood .
the champagne grapes that you see are actually carbonated grapes . a little bit of seafood and some creme fraiche and the picture actually tastes exactly like the dish .
br : but it 's not all just edible pictures .
we decided to do something a little bit different and transform flavors that were very familiar -- so in this case , we have carrot cake .
so we take a carrot cake , put it in a blender , and we have kind of like a carrot cake juice , and then that went into a balloon frozen in liquid nitrogen to create this hollow shell of carrot cake ice cream , i guess , and it comes off looking like , you know , jupiter 's floating around your plate .
so yeah , we 're transforming things into something that you have absolutely no reference for .
hc : and here 's something we have no reference to eat . this is a cigar , and basically it 's a cuban cigar made out of a cuban pork sandwich , so we take these spices that go into the pork shoulder , we fashion that into ash . we take
the sandwich and wrap it up in a collard green , put an edible label that bears no similarity to a cohiba cigar label , and we put it in a dollar ninety-nine ashtray and charge you about twenty bucks for it .
hc : delicious .
br : that 's not it , though .
instead of making foods that look like things that you wouldn 't eat , we decided to make ingredients look like dishes that you know .
so this is a plate of nachos .
the difference between our nachos and the other guy 's nachos , is that this is actually a dessert .
so the chips are candied , the ground beef is made from chocolate , and the cheese is made from a shredded mango sorbet that gets shredded into liquid nitrogen to look like cheese .
and after doing all of this dematerialization and reconfiguring of this , of these ingredients , we realized that it was pretty cool , because as we served it , we learned that the dish actually behaves like the real thing , where the cheese begins to melt .
so when you 're looking at this thing in the dining room , you have this sensation that this is actually a plate of nachos , and it 's not really until you begin tasting it that you realize this is a dessert , and it 's just kind of like a mind-ripper .
hc : so we had been creating all of these dishes out of a kitchen that was more like a mechanic 's shop than a kitchen , and the next logical step for us was to install a state-of-the-art laboratory , and that 's what we have here .
so we put this in the basement , and we got really serious about food , like serious experimentation .
br : one of the really cool things about the lab , besides that we have a new science lab in the kitchen , is that , you know , with this new equipment , and this new approach , all these different doors to creativity that we never knew were there began to open , and so the experiments and the food and the dishes that we created , they just kept going further and further out there .
hc : let 's talk about flavor transformation , and let 's actually make some cool stuff .
you see a cow with its tongue hanging out .
what i see is a cow about to eat something delicious . what is that cow eating ?
and why is it delicious ?
so the cow , basically , eats three basic things in their feed : corn , beets , and barley , and so what i do is i actually challenge my staff with these crazy , wild ideas . can we take what the cow eats , remove the cow , and then make some hamburgers out of that ?
and basically the reaction tends to be kind of like this .
br : yeah , that 's our chef de cuisine , chris jones . this is not the only guy that just flips out when we assign a ridiculous task , but a lot of these ideas , they 're hard to understand .
they 're hard to just get automatically .
there 's a lot of research and a lot of failure , trial and error -- i guess , more error -- that goes into each and every dish , so we don 't always get it right , and it takes a while for us to be able to explain that to people .
hc : so , after about a day of chris and i staring at each other , we came up with something that was pretty close to the hamburger patty , and as you can see it basically forms like hamburger meat .
this is made from three ingredients : beets , barley , corn , and so it actually cooks up like hamburger meat , looks and tastes like hamburger meat , and not only that , but it 's basically removing the cow from the equation .
so replicating food , taking it into that next level is where we 're going .
br : and it 's definitely the world 's first bleeding veggie burger , which is a cool side effect .
and a miracle berry , if you 're not familiar with it , is a natural ingredient , and it contains a special property .
it 's a glycoprotein called miraculin , a naturally occurring thing . it still freaks me out every time i eat it , but it has a unique ability to mask certain taste receptors on your tongue , so that primarily sour taste receptors , so normally things that would taste very sour or tart , somehow begin to taste very sweet .
hc : you 're about to eat a lemon , and now it tastes like lemonade .
let 's just stop and think about the economic benefits of something like that .
we could eliminate sugar across the board for all confectionary products and sodas , and we can replace it with all-natural fresh fruit .
br : so you see us here cutting up some watermelon . the idea with this is that we 're going to eliminate tons of food miles , wasted energy , and overfishing of tuna by creating tuna , or any exotic produce or item from a very far-away place , with local , organic produce ; so we have a watermelon from wisconsin .
hc : so if miracle berries take sour things and turn them into sweet things , we have this other pixie dust that we put on the watermelon , and it makes it go from sweet to savory .
so after we do that , we put it into a vacuum bag , add a little bit of seaweed , some spices , and we roll it , and this starts taking on the appearance of tuna .
so the key now is to make it behave like tuna .
br : and then after a quick dip into some liquid nitrogen to get that perfect sear , we really have something that looks , tastes and behaves like the real thing .
hc : so the key thing to remember here is , we don 't really care what this tuna really is .
as long as it 's good for you and good for the environment , it doesn 't matter .
but where is this going ?
how can we take this idea of tricking your tastebuds and leapfrog it into something that we can do today that could be a disruptive food technology ?
so here 's the next challenge .
i told the staff , let 's just take a bunch of wild plants , think of them as food ingredients . as long as they 're non-poisonous to the human body , go out around chicago sidewalks , take it , blend it , cook it and then have everybody flavor-trip on it at moto .
let 's charge them a boatload of cash for this and see what they think .
br : yeah , so you can imagine , a task like this -- this is another one of those assignments that the kitchen staff hated us for . but we really had to almost relearn how to cook in general , because these are ingredients , you know , plant life that we 're , one , unfamiliar with , and two , we have no reference for how to cook these things because people don 't eat them .
so we really had to think about new , creative ways to flavor , new ways to cook and to change texture -- and that was the main issue with this challenge .
hc : so this is where we step into the future and we leapfrog ahead .
so developing nations and first-world nations , imagine if you could take these wild plants and consume them , food miles would basically turn into food feet .
this disruptive mentality of what food is would essentially open up the encyclopedia of what raw ingredients are , even if we just swapped out , say , one of these for flour , that would eliminate so much energy and so much waste .
and to give you a simple example here as to what we actually fed these customers , there 's a bale of hay there and some crab apples .
and basically we took hay and crab apples and made barbecue sauce out of those two ingredients .
people swore they were eating barbecue sauce , and this is free food .
br : thanks , guys .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / alisa _ miller _ shares _ the _ news _ about _ the _ news.html
alisa miller , head of public radio international , talks about why -- though we want to know more about the world than ever -- the us media is actually showing less . eye-opening stats and graphs .
google , business , economics , entertainment , global issues , media , news , short talk
248
alisa miller shares the news about the news
how does the news shape the way we see the world ?
here 's the world based on the way it looks -- based on landmass .
and here 's how news shapes what americans see .
this map -- -- this map shows the number of seconds that american network and cable news organizations dedicated to news stories , by country , in february of 2007 -- just one year ago .
now , this was a month when north korea agreed to dismantle its nuclear facilities .
there was massive flooding in indonesia .
and in paris , the ipcc released its study confirming man 's impact on global warming .
the u.s. accounted for 79 percent of total news coverage .
and when we take out the u.s. and look at the remaining 21 percent , we see a lot of iraq -- that 's that big green thing there -- and little else .
the combined coverage of russia , china and india , for example , reached just one percent .
when we analyzed all the news stories and removed just one story , here 's how the world looked .
what was that story ? the death of anna nicole smith .
this story eclipsed every country except iraq , and received 10 times the coverage of the ipcc report .
and the cycle continues ; as we all know , britney has loomed pretty large lately .
so , why don 't we hear more about the world ?
one reason is that news networks have reduced the number of their foreign bureaus by half .
aside from one-person abc mini-bureaus in nairobi , new delhi and mumbai , there are no network news bureaus in all of africa , india or south america -- places that are home to more than two billion people .
the reality is that covering britney is cheaper .
and this lack of global coverage is all the more disturbing when we see where people go for news .
local tv news looms large , and unfortunately only dedicates 12 percent of its coverage to international news .
and what about the web ?
the most popular news sites don 't do much better .
last year , pew and the colombia j-school analyzed the 14,000 stories that appeared on google news ' front page .
and they , in fact , covered the same 24 news events .
similarly , a study in e-content showed that much of global news from u.s. news creators is recycled stories from the ap wire services and reuters , and don 't put things into a context that people can understand their connection to it .
so , if you put it all together , this could help explain why today 's college graduates , as well as less educated americans , know less about the world than their counterparts did 20 years ago .
and if you think it 's simply because we are not interested , you would be wrong .
in recent years , americans who say they closely follow global news most of the time grew to over 50 percent .
the real question : is this distorted worldview what we want for americans in our increasingly interconnected world ?
i know we can do better .
and can we afford not to ? thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / nathan _ wolfe _ hunts _ for _ the _ next _ aids.html
virus hunter nathan wolfe is outwitting the next pandemic by staying two steps ahead : discovering deadly new viruses where they first emerge -- passing from animals to humans among poor subsistence hunters in africa -- before they claim millions of lives .
aids , africa , adventure , biodiversity , biology , disease , exploration , global issues , health , microbiology , pandemic , primates , science , virus
499
nathan wolfe 's jungle search for viruses
when most people think about the beginnings of aids , they 're gonna think back to the 1980s .
and certainly , this was the decade in which we discovered aids and the virus that causes it , hiv .
but in fact this virus crossed over into humans many decades before , from chimpanzees , where the virus originated , into humans who hunt these apes .
this photo was taken before the great depression in brazzaville , congo .
at this time , there were thousands of individuals , we think , that were infected with hiv .
so i have a couple of really important questions for you .
if this virus was in thousands of individuals at this point , why was it the case that it took us until 1984 to be able to discover this virus ?
ok now , more importantly , had we been there in the ' 40s and ' 50s , ' 60s , had we seen this disease , had we understood exactly what was going on with it , how might that have changed and completely transformed the nature of the way this pandemic moved ?
in fact , this is not unique to hiv . the vast majority of viruses come from animals .
and you can kind of think of this as a pyramid of this bubbling up of viruses from animals into human populations .
but only at the very top of this pyramid do these things become completely human .
nevertheless , we spend the vast majority of our energy focused on this level of the pyramid , trying to tackle things that are already completely adapted to human beings , that are going to be very very difficult to address -- as we 've seen in the case of hiv .
so during the last 15 years , i 've been working to actually study the earlier interface here -- what i 've labeled " viral chatter , " which was a term coined by my mentor don burke .
this is the idea that we can study the sort of pinging of these viruses into human populations , the movement of these agents over into humans ; and by capturing this moment , we might be able to move to a situation where we can catch them early .
ok , so this is a picture , and i 'm going to show you some pictures now from the field .
this is a picture of a central african hunter .
it 's actually a fairly common picture .
one of the things i want you to note from it is blood -- that you see a tremendous amount of blood contact .
this was absolutely key for us . this is a very intimate form of connection .
so if we 're going to study viral chatter , we need to get to these populations who have intensive contact with wild animals .
and so we 've been studying people like this individual .
we collect blood from them , other specimens .
we look at the diseases , which are in the animals as well as the humans .
and ideally , this is going to allow us to catch these things early on , as they 're moving over into human populations .
and the basic objective of this work is not to just go out once and look at these individuals , but to establish thousands of individuals in these populations that we would monitor continuously on a regular basis .
when they were sick , we would collect specimens from them .
we would actually enlist them -- which we 've done now -- to collect specimens from animals .
we give them these little pieces of filter paper .
when they sample from animals , they collect the blood on the filter paper and this allows us to identify yet-unknown viruses from exactly the right animals -- the ones that are actually being hunted .
narrator : deep in a remote region of cameroon , two hunters stalk their prey .
their names are patrice and patee .
they 're searching for bush meat ; forest animals they can kill to feed their families .
patrice and patee set out most days to go out hunting in the forest around their homes .
they have a series of traps , of snares that they 've set up to catch wild pigs , snakes , monkeys , rodents -- anything they can , really .
patrice and patee have been out for hours but found nothing .
the animals are simply gone .
we stop for a drink of water .
then there is a rustle in the brush .
a group of hunters approach ,
their packs loaded with wild game .
there 's at least three viruses that you know about , which are in this particular monkey .
nathan wolfe : this species , yeah . and there 's many many more pathogens that are present in these animals .
these individuals are at specific risk , particularly if there 's blood contact , they 're at risk for transmission and possibly infection with novel viruses .
narrator : as the hunters display their kills , something surprising happens .
they show us filter paper they 've used to collect the animals ' blood .
the blood will be tested for zoonotic viruses , part of a program dr. wolfe has spent years setting up .
nw : so this is from this animal right here , greater spot-nosed guenon .
every person who has one of those filter papers has at least , at a minimum , been through our basic health education about the risks associated with these activities , which presumably , from our perspective , gives them the ability to decrease their own risk , and then obviously the risk to their families , the village , the country , and the world .
nw : ok , before i continue , i think it 's important to take just a moment to talk about bush meat . bush meat is the hunting of wild game .
ok ? and you can consider all sorts of different bush meat .
i 'm going to be talking about this .
when your children and grandchildren sort of pose questions to you about this period of time , one of the things they 're gonna ask you , is how it was they we allowed some of our closest living relatives , some of the most valuable and endangered species on our planet , to go extinct because we weren 't able to address some of the issues of poverty in these parts of the world .
but in fact that 's not the only question they 're going to ask you about this .
they 're also going to ask you the question that when we knew that this was the way that hiv entered into the human population , and that other diseases had the potential to enter like this , why did we let these behaviors continue ?
why did we not find some other solution to this ?
they 're going to say , in regions of profound instability throughout the world , where you have intense poverty , where populations are growing and you don 't have sustainable resources like this , this is going to lead to food insecurity .
but they 're also going to ask you probably a different question .
it 's one that i think we all need to ask ourselves , which is , why we thought the responsibility rested with this individual here .
now this is the individual -- you can see just right up over his right shoulder -- this is the individual that hunted the monkey from the last picture that i showed you .
ok , take a look at his shirt .
you know , take a look at his face .
bush meat is one of the central crises , which is occurring in our population right now , in humanity , on this planet .
but it can 't be the fault of somebody like this .
ok ? and solving it cannot be his responsibility alone .
there 's no easy solutions , but what i 'm saying to you is that we neglect this problem at our own peril .
so , in 1998 , along with my mentors don burke and colonel mpoudi-ngole , we went to actually start this work in central africa , to work with hunters in this part of the world .
and my job -- at that time i was a post-doctoral fellow , and i was really tasked with setting this up .
so i said to myself , " ok , great -- we 're gonna collect all kinds of specimens . we 're gonna go to all these different locations . it 's going to be wonderful . "
you know , i looked at the map ; i picked out 17 sites ; i figured , no problem .
needless to say , i was drastically wrong . this is challenging work to do .
fortunately , i had and continue to have an absolutely wonderful team of colleagues and collaborators in my own team , and that 's the only way that this work can really occur .
we have a whole range of challenges about this work .
one of them is just obtaining trust from individuals that we work with in the field .
the person you see on the right hand side is paul delong-minutu .
he 's one of the best communicators that i 've really ever dealt with .
when i arrived i didn 't speak a word of french , and i still seemed to understand what it was he was saying .
paul worked for years on the cameroonian national radio and television , and he spoke about health issues . he was a health correspondent .
so we figured we 'd hire this person -- when we got there he could be a great communicator .
when we would get to these rural villages , though , what we found out is that no one had television , so they wouldn 't recognize his face .
but -- when he began to speak they would actually recognize his voice from the radio .
and this was somebody who had incredible potential to spread aspects of our message , whether it be with regards to wildlife conservation or health prevention .
often we run into obstacles . this is us coming back from one of these very rural sites , with specimens from 200 individuals that we needed to get back to the lab within 48 hours .
i like to show this shot -- this is ubald tamoufe , who 's the lead investigator in our cameroon site .
ubald laughs at me when i show this photo because of course you can 't see his face .
but the reason i like to show the shot is because you can see that he 's about to solve this problem .
which -- which he did , which he did .
just a few quick before and after shots .
this was our laboratory before .
this is what it looks like now .
early on , in order to ship our specimens , we had to have dry ice . to get dry ice we had to go to the breweries -- beg , borrow , steal to get these folks to give it to us .
now we have our own liquid nitrogen .
i like to call our laboratory the coldest place in central africa -- it might be .
and here 's a shot of me , this is the before shot of me .
no comment .
so what happened ? so during the 10 years that we 've been doing this work , we actually surprised ourselves .
we made a number of discoveries .
and what we 've found is that if you look in the right place , you can actually monitor the flow of these viruses into human populations .
that gave us a tremendous amount of hope .
what we 've found is a whole range of new viruses in these individuals , including new viruses in the same group as hiv -- so , brand new retroviruses .
and let 's face it , any new retrovirus in the human population -- it 's something we should be aware of .
it 's something we should be following . it 's not something that we should be surprised by .
needless to say in the past these viruses entering into these rural communities might very well have gone extinct .
that 's no longer the case . logging roads provide access to urban areas .
and critically , what happens in central africa doesn 't stay in central africa .
so , once we discovered that it was really possible that we could actually do this monitoring , we decided to move this from research , to really attempt to phase up to a global monitoring effort .
through generous support and partnership scientifically with google.org and the skoll foundation , we were able to start the global viral forecasting initiative and begin work in four different sites in africa and asia .
needless to say , different populations from different parts of the world have different sorts of contact .
so it 's not just hunters in central africa .
it 's also working in live animal markets -- these wet markets -- which is exactly the place where sars emerged in asia .
but really , this is just the beginning from our perspective .
our objective right now , in addition to deploying to these sites and getting everything moving , is to identify new partners because we feel like this effort needs to be extended to probably 20 or more sites throughout the world -- to viral hotspots -- because really the idea here is to cast an incredibly wide net so that we can catch these things , ideally , before they make it to blood banks , sexual networks , airplanes . and that 's really our objective .
there was a time not very long ago when the discovery of unknown organisms was something that held incredible awe for us .
it had potential to really change the way that we saw ourselves , and thought about ourselves .
many people , i think , on our planet right now despair , and they think we 've reached a point where we 've discovered most of the things .
i 'm going tell you right now : please don 't despair .
if an intelligent extra-terrestrial was taxed with writing the encyclopedia of life on our planet , 27 out of 30 of these volumes would be devoted to bacteria and virus , with just a few of the volumes left for plants , fungus and animals , humans being a footnote ; interesting footnote but a footnote nonetheless .
this is honestly the most exciting period ever for the study of unknown life forms on our planet .
the dominant things that exist here we know almost nothing about .
and yet finally , we have the tools , which will allow us to actually explore that world and understand them .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / golan _ levin _ ted2009.html
golan levin , an artist and engineer , uses modern tools -- robotics , new software , cognitive research -- to make artworks that surprise and delight . watch as sounds become shapes , bodies create paintings , and a curious eye looks back at the curious viewer .
art , arts , creativity , design , poetry , software , technology
606
golan levin makes art that looks back at you
hello ! my name is golan levin .
i 'm an artist and an engineer ,
which is , increasingly , a more common kind of hybrid .
but i still fall into this weird crack where people don 't seem to understand me .
and i was looking around and i found this wonderful picture .
it 's a letter from " artforum " in 1967 saying " we can 't imagine ever doing a special issue on electronics or computers in art . " and they still haven 't .
and lest you think that you all , as the digerati , are more enlightened , i went to the apple iphone app store the other day .
where 's art ? i got productivity . i got sports .
and somehow the idea that one would want to make art for the iphone , which my friends and i are doing now , is still not reflected in our understanding of what computers are for .
so , from both directions , there is kind of , i think , a lack of understanding about what it could mean to be an artist who uses the materials of his own day , or her own day ,
which i think artists are obliged to do , is to really explore the expressive potential of the new tools that we have .
in my own case , i 'm an artist , and i 'm really interested in expanding the vocabulary of human action , and basically empowering people through interactivity .
i want people to discover themselves as actors , as creative actors , by having interactive experiences .
a lot of my work is about trying to get away from this .
this a photograph of the desktop of a student of mine .
and when i say desktop , i don 't just mean the actual desk where his mouse has worn away the surface of the desk .
if you look carefully , you can even see a hint of the apple menu , up here in the upper left , where the virtual world has literally punched through to the physical .
so this is , as joy mountford once said , " the mouse is probably the narrowest straw you could try to suck all of human expression through . "
and the thing i 'm really trying to do is enabling people to have more rich kinds of interactive experiences .
how can we get away from the mouse and use our full bodies as a way of exploring aesthetic experiences , not necessarily utilitarian ones .
so i write software . and that 's how i do it .
and a lot of my experiences resemble mirrors in some way .
because this is , in some sense , the first way , that people discover their own potential as actors , and discover their own agency .
by saying " who is that person in the mirror ? oh it 's actually me . "
and so , to give an example , this is a project from last year ,
which is called the interstitial fragment processor .
and it allows people to explore the negative shapes that they create when they 're just going about their everyday business .
so as people make shapes with their hands or their heads and so forth , or with each other , these shapes literally produce sounds and drop out of thin air --
basically taking what 's often this , kind of , unseen space , or this undetected space , and making it something real , that people then can appreciate and become creative with .
so again , people discover their creative agency in this way .
and their own personalities come out in totally unique ways .
so in addition to using full-body input , something that i 've explored now , for a while , has been the use of the voice ,
which is an immensely expressive system for us , vocalizing .
song is one of our oldest ways of making ourselves heard and understood .
and i came across this fantastic research by wolfgang kohler , the so-called father of gestalt psychology , from 1927 , who submitted to an audience like yourselves the following two shapes .
and he said one of them is called maluma .
and one of them is called taketa . which is which ?
anyone want to hazard a guess ?
maluma is on top . yeah . so .
as he says here , most people answer without any hesitation .
so what we 're really seeing here is a phenomenon called phonaesthesia ,
which is a kind of synesthesia that all of you have .
and so , whereas dr. oliver sacks has talked about how perhaps one person in a million actually has true synesthesia , where they hear colors or taste shapes , and things like this ,
phonaesthesia is something we can all experience to some extent .
it 's about mappings between different perceptual domains , like hardness , sharpness , brightness and darkness , and the phonemes that we 're able to speak with .
so 70 years on , there 's been some research where cognitive psychologists have actually sussed out the extent to which , you know , l , m and b are more associated with shapes that look like this ,
and p , t and k are perhaps more associated with shapes like this .
and here we suddenly begin to have a mapping between curvature that we can exploit numerically , a relative mapping between curvature and shape .
so it occurred to me , what happens if we could run these backwards ?
and thus was born the project called remark ,
which is a collaboration with zachary lieberman and the ars electronica futurelab .
and this is an interactive installation which presents the fiction that speech casts visible shadows .
so the idea is you step into a kind of a magic light . and as you do , you see the shadows of your own speech .
and they sort of fly away , out of your head .
if a computer speech recognition system is able to recognize what you 're saying , then it spells it out .
and if it isn 't then it produces a shape which is very phonaesthetically tightly coupled to the sounds you made .
so let 's bring up a video of that .
thanks . so . and this project here , i was working with the great abstract vocalist , jaap blonk .
and he is a world expert in performing " the ursonate , " which is a half-an-hour nonsense poem by kurt schwitters , written in the 1920s ,
which is half an hour of very highly patterned nonsense .
and it 's almost impossible to perform .
but jaap is one of the world experts in performing it .
and in this project we 've developed a form of intelligent real-time subtitles .
so these are our live subtitles , that are being produced by a computer that knows the text of " the ursonate " -- fortunately jaap does too , very well --
and it is delivering that text at the same time as jaap is .
so all the text you 're going to see is real-time generated by the computer , visualizing what he 's doing with his voice .
here you can see the set-up where there is a screen with the subtitles behind him .
okay . so ...
the full videos are online if you are interested .
i got a split reaction to that during the live performance ,
because there is some people who understand live subtitles are a kind of an oxymoron ,
because usually there is someone making them afterwards .
and then a bunch of people who were like , " what 's the big deal ?
i see subtitles all the time on television . "
you know ? they don 't imagine the person in the booth , typing it all .
so in addition to the full body , and in addition to the voice , another thing that i 've been really interested in , most recently , is the use of the eyes , or the gaze , in terms of how people relate to each other .
it 's a really profound amount of nonverbal information that 's communicated with the eyes .
and it 's one of the most interesting technical challenges that 's very currently active in the computer sciences :
being able to have a camera that can understand , from a fairly big distance away , how these little tiny balls are actually pointing in one way or another to reveal what you 're interested in , and where your attention is directed .
so there is a lot of emotional communication that happens there .
and so i 've been beginning , with a variety of different projects , to understand how people can relate to machines with their eyes .
and basically to ask the questions : what if art was aware that we were looking at it ?
how could it respond , in a way , to acknowledge or subvert the fact that we 're looking at it ?
and what could it do if it could look back at us ?
and so those are the questions that are happening in the next projects .
in the first one which i 'm going to show you , called eyecode , it 's a piece of interactive software in which , if we read this little circle , " the trace left by the looking of the previous observer looks at the trace left by the looking of previous observer . "
the idea is that it 's an image wholly constructed from its own history of being viewed by different people in an installation .
so let me just switch over so we can do the live demo .
so let 's run this and see if it works .
okay . ah , there is lots of nice bright video .
there is just a little test screen that shows that it 's working .
and what i 'm just going to do is -- i 'm going to hide that . and you can see here that what it 's doing is it 's recording my eyes every time i blink .
hello ? and i can ... hello ... okay .
and no matter where i am , what 's really going on here is that it 's an eye-tracking system that tries to locate my eyes .
and if i get really far away i 'm blurry .
you know , you 're going to have these kind of blurry spots like this that maybe only resemble eyes in a very very abstract way .
but if i come up really close and stare directly at the camera on this laptop then you 'll see these nice crisp eyes .
you can think of it as a way of , sort of , typing , with your eyes .
and what you 're typing are recordings of your eyes as you 're looking at other peoples ' eyes .
so each person is looking at the looking of everyone else before them .
and this exists in larger installations where there are thousands and thousands of eyes that people could be staring at , as you see who 's looking at the people looking at the people looking before them .
so i 'll just add a couple more . blink . blink .
and you can see , just once again , how it 's sort of finding my eyes and doing its best to estimate when it 's blinking .
alright . let 's leave that .
so that 's this kind of recursive observation system .
thank you .
the last couple pieces i 'm going to show are basically in the new realm of robotics -- for me , new for me .
it 's called opto-isolator .
and i 'm going to show a video of the older version of it , which is just a minute long . okay .
in this case , the opto-isolator is blinking in response to one 's own blinks .
so it blinks one second after you do .
this is a device which is intended to reduce the phenomenon of gaze down to the simplest possible materials .
just one eye , looking at you , and eliminating everything else about a face ,
but just to consider gaze in an isolated way as a kind of , as an element .
and at the same time , it attempts to engage in what you might call familiar psycho-social gaze behaviors .
like looking away if you look at it too long because it gets shy ,
or things like that .
okay . so the last project i 'm going to show is this new one called snout .
it 's an eight-foot snout , with a googly eye .
and inside it 's got an 800-pound robot arm that i borrowed , from a friend .
it helps to have good friends .
i 'm at carnegie mellon ; we 've got a great robotics institute there .
i 'd like to show you thing called snout , which is --
the idea behind this project is to make a robot that appears as if it 's continually surprised to see you .
the idea is that basically --
if it 's constantly like " huh ? ... huh ? "
that 's why its other name is doubletaker , taker of doubles .
it 's always kind of doing a double take : " what ? "
and the idea is basically , can it look at you and make you feel as if like , " what ? is it my shoes ? "
" got something on my hair ? " here we go . alright .
checking him out ...
for you nerds , here 's a little behind-the-scenes .
it 's got a computer vision system ,
and it tries to look at the people who are moving around the most .
those are its targets .
up there is the skeleton ,
which is actually what it 's trying to do . it 's really about trying to create a novel body language for a new creature .
hollywood does this all the time , of course .
but also have the body language communicate something to the person who is looking at it .
this language is communicating that it is surprised to see you , and it 's interested in looking at you .
thank you very much . that 's all i 've got for today .
and i 'm really happy to be here . thank you so much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / evan _ williams _ on _ listening _ to _ twitter _ users.html
in the year leading up to this talk , the web tool twitter exploded in size . co-founder evan williams reveals that many of the ideas driving that growth came from unexpected uses invented by the users themselves .
business , communication , culture , entertainment , social change , social media , technology
473
evan williams on listening to twitter users
four years ago , on the ted stage , i announced a company i was working with at the time called odeo .
and because of that announcement , we got a big article in the new york times , which led to more press , which led to more attention , and me deciding to become ceo of that company -- whereas i was just an adviser -- and raising a round of venture capital and ramping up hiring . one of the guys i hired was an engineer named jack dorsey , and a year later we were trying to decide which way to go with odeo , and jack presented an idea he 'd been tinkering around with for a number of years that was based around sending simple status updates to friends .
we were also playing with sms at the time at odeo , so we kind of put two and two together , and in early 2006 we launched twitter as a side project at odeo .
now , it 's hard to justify doing a side project at a startup , where focus is so critical , but i had actually launched blogger as a side project to my previous company , thinking it was just a little thing we 'd do on the side , and it ended up taking over not only the company , but my life over the next five or six years .
so i learned to follow hunches even though you can 't necessarily justify them or know where they 're going to go .
and that 's kind of what 's happened with twitter , time after time .
so , for those of you unfamiliar , twitter is based around a very simple , seemingly trivial concept .
you say what you 're doing in 140 characters or less , and people who are interested in you get those updates .
if they 're really interested , they get the update as a text message on their cell phone .
so , for instance , i may twitter right now that i 'm giving a talk at ted .
it 's a normal everyday thing .
and in my case , when i hit send , up to 60,000 people will receive that message in a matter of seconds .
now , the fundamental idea is that twitter lets people share moments of their lives whenever they want , be they momentous occasions or mundane ones .
it is by sharing these moments as they 're happening that lets people feel more connected and in touch , despite distance , and in real time .
this was the primary use we saw for twitter from the beginning , and what got us excited .
what we didn 't anticipate was the many , many other uses that would evolve from this very simple system . one of the things we realized was how important twitter could be during real-time events .
when the wildfires broke out in san diego , in october of 2007 , people turned to twitter to report what was happening and to find information from neighbors about what was happening around them .
but it wasn 't just individuals .
the l.a. times actually turned to twitter to dispense information as well , and put a twitter feed on the front page , and the l.a. fire department and red cross used it to dispense news and updates as well . at this event , dozens of people are twittering and thousands of people are following along because they want to know what it feels like to be here and what 's happening . among the other interesting things that have cropped up are many things from businesses , from marketing and communications and predictable things , to an insanely popular korean-barbecue taco truck that drives around l.a. and twitters where it stops , causing a line to form around the block . politicians have recently begun twittering . in fact , there are 47 members of congress who currently have twitter accounts . and they 're tweeting , in some cases , from behind closed-door sessions with the president . in this case , this guy 's not liking what he 's hearing .
the president himself is our most popular twitter user , although his tweets have dropped off as of late , while senator mccain 's have picked up .
as have this guy 's .
twitter was originally designed as a broadcast medium :
you send one message and it goes out to everybody , and you receive the messages you 're interested in .
one of the many ways that users shaped the evolution of twitter was by inventing a way to reply to a specific person or a specific message . so , this syntax , the " @ username " that shaquille o 'neal 's using here to reply to one of his fans , was completely invented by users , and we didn 't build it into the system until it already became popular and then we made it easier .
this is one of the many ways that users have shaped the system .
another is via the api .
we built an application-programming interface , which basically means that programmers can write software that interacts with twitter .
we currently know about over 2,000 pieces of software that can send twitter updates -- interfaces for mac , windows , your iphone , your blackberry --
as well as things like a device that lets an unborn baby twitter when it kicks or a plant twitter when it needs water . probably the most important third-party development came from a little company in virginia called summize . summize built a twitter search engine . and they tapped into the fact that , if you have millions of people around the world talking about what they 're doing and what 's around them , you have an incredible resource to find out about any topic or event while it 's going on . this really changed how we perceived twitter . for instance , here 's what people are saying about ted . this is another way that our mind was shifted , and twitter wasn 't what we thought it was . we liked this so much we actually bought the company and are folding it into the main product . this not only lets you view twitters in different ways , but it introduces new use cases as well .
one of my favorites is what happened a few months ago when there was a gas shortage in atlanta . some users figured out that they would twitter when they found gas -- where it was , and how much it cost -- and then appended the keyword " # atlgas " so that other people search for that and find gas themselves . and this trend of people using this communication network to help each other out goes far beyond the original idea of just keeping up with family and friends . it 's happened more and more lately , whether it 's raising money for homeless people or to dig wells in africa or for a family in crisis . people have raised tens of thousands of dollars over twitter in a matter of days on several occasions . it seems like when you give people easier ways to share information , more good things happen . i have no idea what will happen next with twitter .
i 've learned to follow the hunch , but never assume where it will go . thanks .
chris anderson : we 're not quite done yet .
so , look , if we could have this screen live ...
this is actually the most terrifying thing that any speaker can do after they 've been to an event . it 's totally intimidating .
so , this would be the twitter search screen . let 's type a couple of random words into twitter .
for example : " evan williams . " ... " give people more information and follow your hunch @ # ted . "
... " currently listening to evan williams . "
oh ... " evan williams is just dying on stage here at ted .
worst talk ever ! " evan williams : nice . thanks .
ca : just kidding . but , literally in the eight minutes he was talking , there are about fifty tweets that already came on the talk .
so he 'll see every aspect of the reaction : the fact that barack obama is the biggest twitterer , the fact that it came out of ted ... i don 't think there 's any other way of getting instant feedback that way . you have build something very fascinating , and it looks like its best times are still ahead of it .
so , thank you very much , evan .
that was very interesting . ew : thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / chimamanda _ adichie _ the _ danger _ of _ a _ single _ story.html
our lives , our cultures , are composed of many overlapping stories . novelist chimamanda adichie tells the story of how she found her authentic cultural voice -- and warns that if we hear only a single story about another person or country , we risk a critical misunderstanding .
africa , book , culture , storytelling , third world , writing
652
chimamanda adichie : the danger of a single story
i 'm a storyteller .
and i would like to tell you a few personal stories about what i like to call " the danger of the single story . "
i grew up on a university campus in eastern nigeria .
my mother says that i started reading at the age of two , although i think four is probably close to the truth .
so i was an early reader , and what i read were british and american children 's books .
i was also an early writer ,
and when i began to write , at about the age of seven , stories in pencil with crayon illustrations that my poor mother was obligated to read , i wrote exactly the kinds of stories i was reading :
all my characters were white and blue-eyed ,
they played in the snow , they ate apples ,
how lovely it was that the sun had come out .
now , this despite the fact that i lived in nigeria .
i had never been outside nigeria .
we didn 't have snow , we ate mangoes ,
and we never talked about the weather , because there was no need to .
my characters also drank a lot of ginger beer because the characters in the british books i read drank ginger beer .
never mind that i had no idea what ginger beer was .
and for many years afterwards , i would have a desperate desire to taste ginger beer .
but that is another story .
what this demonstrates , i think , is how impressionable and vulnerable we are in the face of a story , particularly as children .
because all i had read were books in which characters were foreign , i had become convinced that books by their very nature had to have foreigners in them and had to be about things with which i could not personally identify .
things changed when i discovered african books .
there weren 't many of them available , and they weren 't quite as easy to find as the foreign books .
but because of writers like chinua achebe and camara laye i went through a mental shift in my perception of literature .
i realized that people like me , girls with skin the color of chocolate , whose kinky hair could not form ponytails , could also exist in literature .
i started to write about things i recognized .
now , i loved those american and british books i read .
they stirred my imagination . they opened up new worlds for me .
but the unintended consequence was that i did not know that people like me could exist in literature .
so what the discovery of african writers did for me was this : it saved me from having a single story of what books are .
i come from a conventional , middle-class nigerian family .
my father was a professor .
my mother was an administrator .
and so we had , as was the norm , live-in domestic help , who would often come from nearby rural villages .
so the year i turned eight we got a new house boy .
his name was fide .
the only thing my mother told us about him was that his family was very poor .
my mother sent yams and rice , and our old clothes , to his family .
and when i didn 't finish my dinner my mother would say , " finish your food ! don 't you know ? people like fide 's family have nothing . "
so i felt enormous pity for fide 's family .
then one saturday we went to his village to visit ,
and his mother showed us a beautifully patterned basket made of dyed raffia that his brother had made .
i was startled .
it had not occurred to me that anybody in his family could actually make something .
all i had heard about them was how poor they were , so that it had become impossible for me to see them as anything else but poor .
their poverty was my single story of them .
years later , i thought about this when i left nigeria to go to university in the united states .
i was 19 .
my american roommate was shocked by me .
she asked where i had learned to speak english so well , and was confused when i said that nigeria happened to have english as its official language .
she asked if she could listen to what she called my " tribal music , " and was consequently very disappointed when i produced my tape of mariah carey .
she assumed that i did not know how to use a stove .
what struck me was this : she had felt sorry for me even before she saw me .
her default position toward me , as an african , was a kind of patronizing , well-meaning pity .
my roommate had a single story of africa :
a single story of catastrophe .
in this single story there was no possibility of africans being similar to her in any way ,
no possibility of feelings more complex than pity ,
no possibility of a connection as human equals .
i must say that before i went to the u.s. i didn 't consciously identify as african . but in the u.s. whenever africa came up people turned to me .
never mind that i knew nothing about places like namibia .
but i did come to embrace this new identity ,
and in many ways i think of myself now as african .
although i still get quite irritable when africa is referred to as a country ,
the most recent example being my otherwise wonderful flight from lagos two days ago , in which there was an announcement on the virgin flight about the charity work in " india , africa and other countries . "
so after i had spent some years in the u.s. as an african , i began to understand my roommate 's response to me . if i had not grown up in nigeria , and if all i knew about africa were from popular images , i too would think that africa was a place of beautiful landscapes , beautiful animals , and incomprehensible people , fighting senseless wars , dying of poverty and aids , unable to speak for themselves and waiting to be saved by a kind , white foreigner .
i would see africans in the same way that i , as a child , had seen fide 's family .
this single story of africa ultimately comes , i think , from western literature .
now , here is a quote from the writing of a london merchant called john locke , who sailed to west africa in 1561 and kept a fascinating account of his voyage .
after referring to the black africans as " beasts who have no houses , " he writes , " they are also people without heads , having their mouth and eyes in their breasts . "
now , i 've laughed every time i 've read this .
and one must admire the imagination of john locke .
but what is important about his writing is that it represents the beginning of a tradition of telling african stories in the west :
a tradition of sub-saharan africa as a place of negatives , of difference , of darkness , of people who , in the words of the wonderful poet rudyard kipling , are " half devil , half child . "
and so i began to realize that my american roommate must have throughout her life seen and heard different versions of this single story , as had a professor , who once told me that my novel was not " authentically african . "
now , i was quite willing to contend that there were a number of things wrong with the novel , that it had failed in a number of places ,
but i had not quite imagined that it had failed at achieving something called african authenticity .
in fact i did not know what african authenticity was .
the professor told me that my characters were too much like him , an educated and middle-class man .
my characters drove cars .
they were not starving .
therefore they were not authentically african .
but i must quickly add that i too am just as guilty in the question of the single story .
a few years ago , i visited mexico from the u.s .
the political climate in the u.s. at the time was tense ,
and there were debates going on about immigration .
and , as often happens in america , immigration became synonymous with mexicans .
there were endless stories of mexicans as people who were fleecing the healthcare system , sneaking across the border , being arrested at the border , that sort of thing .
i remember walking around on my first day in guadalajara , watching the people going to work , rolling up tortillas in the marketplace , smoking , laughing .
i remember first feeling slight surprise .
and then i was overwhelmed with shame .
i realized that i had been so immersed in the media coverage of mexicans that they had become one thing in my mind , the abject immigrant .
i had bought into the single story of mexicans and i could not have been more ashamed of myself .
so that is how to create a single story , show a people as one thing , as only one thing , over and over again , and that is what they become .
it is impossible to talk about the single story without talking about power .
there is a word , an igbo word , that i think about whenever i think about the power structures of the world , and it is " nkali . "
it 's a noun that loosely translates to " to be greater than another . "
like our economic and political worlds , stories too are defined by the principle of nkali :
how they are told , who tells them , when they 're told , how many stories are told , are really dependent on power .
power is the ability not just to tell the story of another person , but to make it the definitive story of that person .
the palestinian poet mourid barghouti writes that if you want to dispossess a people , the simplest way to do it is to tell their story and to start with , " secondly . "
start the story with the arrows of the native americans , and not with the arrival of the british , and you have an entirely different story .
start the story with the failure of the african state , and not with the colonial creation of the african state , and you have an entirely different story .
i recently spoke at a university where a student told me that it was such a shame that nigerian men were physical abusers like the father character in my novel .
i told him that i had just read a novel called american psycho -- -- and that it was such a shame that young americans were serial murderers .
now , obviously i said this in a fit of mild irritation .
but it would never have occurred to me to think that just because i had read a novel in which a character was a serial killer that he was somehow representative of all americans .
this is not because i am a better person than that student , but because of america 's cultural and economic power , i had many stories of america .
i had read tyler and updike and steinbeck and gaitskill .
i did not have a single story of america .
when i learned , some years ago , that writers were expected to have had really unhappy childhoods to be successful , i began to think about how i could invent horrible things my parents had done to me .
but the truth is that i had a very happy childhood , full of laughter and love , in a very close-knit family .
but i also had grandfathers who died in refugee camps .
my cousin polle died because he could not get adequate healthcare .
one of my closest friends , okoloma , died in a plane crash because our fire trucks did not have water .
i grew up under repressive military governments that devalued education , so that sometimes my parents were not paid their salaries .
and so , as a child , i saw jam disappear from the breakfast table , then margarine disappeared , then bread became too expensive , then milk became rationed .
and most of all , a kind of normalized political fear invaded our lives .
all of these stories make me who i am .
but to insist on only these negative stories is to flatten my experience and to overlook the many other stories that formed me .
the single story creates stereotypes ,
and the problem with stereotypes is not that they are untrue , but that they are incomplete .
they make one story become the only story .
of course , africa is a continent full of catastrophes :
there are immense ones , such as the horrific rapes in congo
and depressing ones , such as the fact that 5,000 people apply for one job vacancy in nigeria .
but there are other stories that are not about catastrophe ,
and it is very important , it is just as important , to talk about them .
i 've always felt that it is impossible to engage properly with a place or a person without engaging with all of the stories of that place and that person .
the consequence of the single story is this : it robs people of dignity .
it makes our recognition of our equal humanity difficult .
it emphasizes how we are different rather than how we are similar .
so what if before my mexican trip i had followed the immigration debate from both sides , the u.s. and the mexican ?
what if my mother had told us that fide 's family was poor and hardworking ?
what if we had an african television network that broadcast diverse african stories all over the world ?
what the nigerian writer chinua achebe calls " a balance of stories . "
what if my roommate knew about my nigerian publisher , mukta bakaray , a remarkable man who left his job in a bank to follow his dream and start a publishing house ?
now , the conventional wisdom was that nigerians don 't read literature .
he disagreed . he felt that people who could read , would read , if you made literature affordable and available to them .
shortly after he published my first novel i went to a tv station in lagos to do an interview ,
and a woman who worked there as a messenger came up to me and said , " i really liked your novel . i didn 't like the ending .
now you must write a sequel , and this is what will happen ... "
and she went on to tell me what to write in the sequel .
i was not only charmed , i was very moved .
here was a woman , part of the ordinary masses of nigerians , who were not supposed to be readers .
she had not only read the book , but she had taken ownership of it and felt justified in telling me what to write in the sequel .
now , what if my roommate knew about my friend fumi onda , a fearless woman who hosts a tv show in lagos , and is determined to tell the stories that we prefer to forget ?
what if my roommate knew about the heart procedure that was performed in the lagos hospital last week ?
what if my roommate knew about contemporary nigerian music ,
talented people singing in english and pidgin , and igbo and yoruba and ijo , mixing influences from jay-z to fela to bob marley to their grandfathers .
what if my roommate knew about the female lawyer who recently went to court in nigeria to challenge a ridiculous law that required women to get their husband 's consent before renewing their passports ?
what if my roommate knew about nollywood , full of innovative people making films despite great technical odds ,
films so popular that they really are the best example of nigerians consuming what they produce ?
what if my roommate knew about my wonderfully ambitious hair braider , who has just started her own business selling hair extensions ?
or about the millions of other nigerians who start businesses and sometimes fail , but continue to nurse ambition ?
every time i am home i am confronted with the usual sources of irritation for most nigerians : our failed infrastructure , our failed government ,
but also by the incredible resilience of people who thrive despite the government , rather than because of it .
i teach writing workshops in lagos every summer ,
and it is amazing to me how many people apply , how many people are eager to write , to tell stories .
my nigerian publisher and i have just started a non-profit called farafina trust ,
and we have big dreams of building libraries and refurbishing libraries that already exist
and providing books for state schools that don 't have anything in their libraries ,
and also of organizing lots and lots of workshops , in reading and writing , for all the people who are eager to tell our many stories .
stories matter .
many stories matter .
stories have been used to dispossess and to malign ,
but stories can also be used to empower and to humanize .
stories can break the dignity of a people ,
but stories can also repair that broken dignity .
the american writer alice walker wrote this about her southern relatives who had moved to the north .
she introduced them to a book about the southern life that they had left behind :
" they sat around , reading the book themselves , listening to me read the book , and a kind of paradise was regained . "
i would like to end with this thought : that when we reject the single story , when we realize that there is never a single story about any place , we regain a kind of paradise .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / noreena _ hertz _ how _ to _ use _ experts _ and _ when _ not _ to.html
we make important decisions every day -- and we often rely on experts to help us decide . but , says economist noreena hertz , relying too much on experts can be limiting and even dangerous . she calls for us to start democratizing expertise -- to listen not only to " surgeons and ceos , but also to shop staff . "
business , choice , culture , economics
1079
noreena hertz : how to use experts -- and when not to
it 's monday morning .
in washington , the president of the united states is sitting in the oval office , assessing whether or not to strike al qaeda in yemen .
at number 10 downing street , david cameron is trying to work out whether to cut more public sector jobs in order to stave off a double-dip recession .
in madrid , maria gonzalez is standing at the door , listening to her baby crying and crying , trying to work out whether she should let it cry until it falls asleep or pick it up and hold it .
and i am sitting by my father 's bedside in hospital , trying to work out whether i should let him drink the one-and-a-half-liter bottle of water that his doctors just came in and said , " you must make him drink today , " -- my father 's been nil by mouth for a week -- or whether , by giving him this bottle , i might actually kill him .
we face momentous decisions with important consequences throughout our lives ,
and we have strategies for dealing with these decisions .
we talk things over with our friends , we scour the internet , we search through books . but still , even in this age of google and tripadvisor and amazon recommends , it 's still experts that we rely upon most -- especially when the stakes are high and the decision really matters .
because in a world of data deluge and extreme complexity , we believe that experts are more able to process information than we can -- that they are able to come to better conclusions than we could come to on our own .
and in an age that is sometimes nowadays frightening or confusing , we feel reassured by the almost parental-like authority of experts who tell us so clearly what it is we can and cannot do .
but i believe that this is a big problem , a problem with potentially dangerous consequences for us as a society , as a culture and as individuals .
it 's not that experts have not massively contributed to the world -- of course they have .
the problem lies with us : we 've become addicted to experts .
we 've become addicted to their certainty , their assuredness , their definitiveness , and in the process , we have ceded our responsibility , substituting our intellect and our intelligence for their supposed words of wisdom .
we 've surrendered our power , trading off our discomfort with uncertainty for the illusion of certainty that they provide .
this is no exaggeration .
in a recent experiment , a group of adults had their brains scanned in an mri machine as they were listening to experts speak .
the results were quite extraordinary .
as they listened to the experts ' voices , the independent decision-making parts of their brains switched off .
it literally flat-lined .
and they listened to whatever the experts said and took their advice , however right or wrong .
but experts do get things wrong .
did you know that studies show that doctors misdiagnose four times out of 10 ?
did you know that if you file your tax returns yourself , you 're statistically more likely to be filing them correctly than if you get a tax adviser to do it for you ?
and then there 's , of course , the example that we 're all too aware of : financial experts getting it so wrong that we 're living through the worst recession since the 1930s .
for the sake of our health , our wealth and our collective security , it 's imperative that we keep the independent decision-making parts of our brains switched on .
and i 'm saying this as an economist who , over the past few years , has focused my research on what it is we think and who it is we trust and why ,
but also -- and i 'm aware of the irony here -- as an expert myself , as a professor , as somebody who advises prime ministers , heads of big companies , international organizations , but an expert who believes that the role of experts needs to change , that we need to become more open-minded , more democratic and be more open to people rebelling against our points of view .
so in order to help you understand where i 'm coming from , let me bring you into my world , the world of experts .
now there are , of course , exceptions , wonderful , civilization-enhancing exceptions . but what my research has shown me is that experts tend on the whole to form very rigid camps , that within these camps , a dominant perspective emerges that often silences opposition , that experts move with the prevailing winds , often hero-worshipping their own gurus .
alan greenspan 's proclamations that the years of economic growth would go on and on , not challenged by his peers , until after the crisis , of course .
you see , we also learn that experts are located , are governed , by the social and cultural norms of their times -- whether it be the doctors in victorian england , say , who sent women to asylums for expressing sexual desire , or the psychiatrists in the united states who , up until 1973 , were still categorizing homosexuality as a mental illness .
and what all this means is that paradigms take far too long to shift , that complexity and nuance are ignored and also that money talks -- because we 've all seen the evidence of pharmaceutical companies funding studies of drugs that conveniently leave out their worst side effects , or studies funded by food companies of their new products , massively exaggerating the health benefits of the products they 're about to bring by market .
the study showed that food companies exaggerated typically seven times more than an independent study .
and we 've also got to be aware that experts , of course , also make mistakes .
they make mistakes every single day -- mistakes born out of carelessness .
a recent study in the archives of surgery reported surgeons removing healthy ovaries , operating on the wrong side of the brain , carrying out procedures on the wrong hand , elbow , eye , foot , and also mistakes born out of thinking errors .
a common thinking error of radiologists , for example -- when they look at ct scans -- is that they 're overly influenced by whatever it is that the referring physician has said that he suspects the patient 's problem to be .
so if a radiologist is looking at the scan of a patient with suspected pneumonia , say , what happens is that , if they see evidence of pneumonia on the scan , they literally stop looking at it -- thereby missing the tumor sitting three inches below on the patient 's lungs .
i 've shared with you so far some insights into the world of experts .
these are , of course , not the only insights i could share , but i hope they give you a clear sense at least of why we need to stop kowtowing to them , why we need to rebel and why we need to switch our independent decision-making capabilities on .
but how can we do this ?
well for the sake of time , i want to focus on just three strategies .
first , we 've got to be ready and willing to take experts on and dispense with this notion of them as modern-day apostles .
this doesn 't mean having to get a ph.d. in every single subject , you 'll be relieved to hear .
but it does mean persisting in the face of their inevitable annoyance when , for example , we want them to explain things to us in language that we can actually understand .
why was it that , when i had an operation , my doctor said to me , " beware , ms. hertz , of hyperpyrexia , " when he could have just as easily said , " watch out for a high fever . "
you see , being ready to take experts on is about also being willing to dig behind their graphs , their equations , their forecasts , their prophecies , and being armed with the questions to do that -- questions like : what are the assumptions that underpin this ?
what is the evidence upon which this is based ?
what has your investigation focused on ?
and what has it ignored ?
it recently came out that experts trialing drugs before they come to market typically trial drugs first , primarily on male animals and then , primarily on men .
it seems that they 've somehow overlooked the fact that over half the world 's population are women .
and women have drawn the short medical straw because it now turns out that many of these drugs don 't work nearly as well on women as they do on men -- and the drugs that do work well work so well that they 're actively harmful for women to take .
being a rebel is about recognizing that experts ' assumptions and their methodologies can easily be flawed .
second , we need to create the space for what i call " managed dissent . "
if we are to shift paradigms , if we are to make breakthroughs , if we are to destroy myths , we need to create an environment in which expert ideas are battling it out , in which we 're bringing in new , diverse , discordant , heretical views into the discussion , fearlessly , in the knowledge that progress comes about , not only from the creation of ideas , but also from their destruction -- and also from the knowledge that , by surrounding ourselves by divergent , discordant , heretical views . all the research now shows us that this actually makes us smarter .
encouraging dissent is a rebellious notion because it goes against our very instincts , which are to surround ourselves with opinions and advice that we already believe or want to be true .
and that 's why i talk about the need to actively manage dissent .
google ceo eric schmidt is a practical practitioner of this philosophy .
in meetings , he looks out for the person in the room -- arms crossed , looking a bit bemused -- and draws them into the discussion , trying to see if they indeed are the person with a different opinion , so that they have dissent within the room .
managing dissent is about recognizing the value of disagreement , discord and difference .
but we need to go even further .
we need to fundamentally redefine who it is that experts are .
the conventional notion is that experts are people with advanced degrees , fancy titles , diplomas , best-selling books -- high-status individuals .
but just imagine if we were to junk this notion of expertise as some sort of elite cadre and instead embrace the notion of democratized expertise -- whereby expertise was not just the preserve of surgeons and ceo 's , but also shop-girls -- yeah .
best buy , the consumer electronics company , gets all its employees -- the cleaners , the shop assistants , the people in the back office , not just its forecasting team -- to place bets , yes bets , on things like whether or not a product is going to sell well before christmas , on whether customers ' new ideas are going to be or should be taken on by the company , on whether a project will come in on time .
by leveraging and by embracing the expertise within the company , best buy was able to discover , for example , that the store that it was going to open in china -- its big , grand store -- was not going to open on time .
because when it asked its staff , all its staff , to place their bets on whether they thought the store would open on time or not , a group from the finance department placed all their chips on that not happening .
it turned out that they were aware , as no one else within the company was , of a technological blip that neither the forecasting experts , nor the experts on the ground in china , were even aware of .
the strategies that i have discussed this evening -- embracing dissent , taking experts on , democratizing expertise , rebellious strategies -- are strategies that i think would serve us all well to embrace as we try to deal with the challenges of these very confusing , complex , difficult times .
for if we keep our independent decision-making part of our brains switched on , if we challenge experts , if we 're skeptical , if we devolve authority , if we are rebellious , but also if we become much more comfortable with nuance , uncertainty and doubt , and if we allow our experts to express themselves using those terms too , we will set ourselves up much better for the challenges of the 21st century .
for now , more than ever , is not the time to be blindly following , blindly accepting , blindly trusting .
now is the time to face the world with eyes wide open -- yes , using experts to help us figure things out , for sure -- i don 't want to completely do myself out of a job here -- but being aware of their limitations and , of course , also our own .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / shai _ agassi _ on _ electric _ cars.html
forget about the hybrid auto -- shai agassi says it 's electric cars or bust if we want to impact emissions . his company , better place , has a radical plan to take entire countries oil-free by 2020 .
alternative energy , business , cars , energy , global issues , green , solar , technology
512
shai agassi 's bold plan for electric cars
so how would you run a whole country without oil ?
that 's the question that sort of hit me in the middle of a davos afternoon about four years ago .
it never left my brain .
and i started playing with it more like a puzzle .
the original thought i had : this must be ethanol .
so i went out and researched ethanol ,
and found out you need the amazon in your backyard in every country .
about six months later i figured out it must be hydrogen , until some scientist told me the unfortunate truth , which is , you actually use more clean electrons than the ones you get inside a car , if you use hydrogen .
so that is not going to be the path to go .
and then sort of through a process of wandering around , i got to the thought that actually if you could convert an entire country to electric cars , in a way that is convenient and affordable , you could get to a solution .
now i started this from a point of view that it has to be something that scales en masse .
not how do you build one car ,
but how do you scale this so that it can become something that is used by 99 percent of the population ?
the thought that came to mind is that it needs to be as good as any car that you would have today .
so one , it has to be more convenient than a car .
and two , it has be more affordable than today 's cars .
affordable is not a 40,000 dollar sedan , right ?
alright ? that 's not something that we can finance or buy today .
and convenient is not something that you drive for an hour and charge for eight .
so we 're bound with the laws of physics and the laws of economics .
and so the thought that i started with was how do you do this , still within the boundary of the science we know today -- no time for science fair , no time for playing around with things or waiting for the magic battery to show up .
how do you do it within the economics that we have today ?
how do you do it from the power of the consumer up ?
and not from the power of an edict down .
on a random visit to tesla on some afternoon , i actually found out that the answer comes from separating between the car ownership and the battery ownership .
in a sense if you want to think about it this is the classic " batteries not included . "
now if you separate between the two , you could actually answer the need for a convenient car by creating a network , by creating a network before the cars show up .
the network has two components in them .
first component is you charge the car whenever you stop --
ends up that cars are these strange beasts that drive for about two hours and park for about 22 hours .
if you drive a car in the morning and drive it back in the afternoon the ratio of charge to drive is about a minute for a minute .
and so the first thought that came to mind is , everywhere we park we have electric power .
now it sounds crazy . but in some places around the world , like scandinavia , you already have that .
if you park your car and didn 't plug in the heater , when you come back you don 't have a car . it just doesn 't work .
now that last mile , last foot , in a sense , is the first step of the infrastructure .
the second step of the infrastructure needs to take care of the range extension .
see we 're bound by today 's technology on batteries , which is about 120 miles if you want to stay within reasonable space and weight limitations .
120 miles is a good enough range for a lot of people .
but you never want to get stuck .
so what we added is a second element to our network , which is a battery swap system .
you drive . you take your depleted battery out .
a full battery comes on . and you drive on .
you don 't do it as a human being . you do it as a machine .
it looks like a car wash . you come into your car wash .
and a plate comes up , holds your battery , takes it out , puts it back in , and
within two minutes you 're back on the road
and you can go again .
if you had charge spots everywhere , and you had battery swap stations everywhere , how often would you do it ? and it ends up that you 'd do swapping less times than you stop at a gas station .
as a matter of fact , we added to the contract .
we said that if you stop to swap your battery more than 50 times a year we start paying you money because it 's an inconvenience .
then we looked at the question of the affordability .
we looked at the question , what happens when the battery is disconnected from the car .
what is the cost of that battery ?
everybody tells us batteries are so expensive .
what we found out , when you move from molecules to electrons , something interesting happens .
we can go back to the original economics of the car and look at it again .
the battery is not the gas tank , in a sense .
remember in your car you have a gas tank .
you have the crude oil .
and you have refining and delivery of that crude oil as what we call petrol or gasoline .
the battery in this sense , is the crude oil .
we have a battery bay . it costs the same hundred dollars as the gas tank .
but the crude oil is replaced with a battery . just it doesn 't burn . it consumes itself
step after step after step .
it has 2,000 life cycles these days .
and so it 's sort of a mini well .
we were asked in the past when we bought an electric car to pay for the entire well , for the life of the car .
nobody wants to buy a mini well when they buy a car .
in a sense what we 've done is we 've created a new consumable .
you , today , buy gasoline miles .
and we created electric miles .
and the price of electric miles ends up being a very interesting number .
today 2010 , in volume , when we come to market , it is eight cents a mile .
those of you who have a hard time calculating what that means -- in the average consumer
environment we 're in in the u.s .
20 miles per gallon that 's a buck 50 , a buck 60 a gallon .
that 's cheaper than today 's gasoline , even in the u.s .
in europe where taxes are in place , that 's the equivalent to a minus 60 dollar barrel .
but e-miles follow moore 's law .
they go from eight cents a mile in 2010 , to four cents a mile in 2015 , to two cents a mile by 2020 .
why ? because batteries life cycle improve -- a bit of improvement on energy density , which reduces the price .
and these prices are actually with clean electrons .
we do not use any electrons that come from coal .
so in a sense this is an absolute zero-carbon , zero-fossil fuel electric mile at two cents a mile by 2020 .
now even if we get to 40 miles per gallon by 2020 , which is our desire .
imagine only 40 miles per gallon cars would be on the road .
that is an 80 cent gallon .
an 80 cent gallon means , if the entire pacific would convert to crude oil , and we 'd let any oil company bring it out and refine it , they still can 't compete with two cents a mile .
that 's a new economic factor , which is fascinating to most people .
now this would have been a wonderful paper .
that 's how i solved it in my head . it was a white paper i handed out to governments .
and some governments told me that it 's fascinating that the younger generation actually thinks about these things .
until i got to the true young global leader , shimon peres , president of israel ,
and he ran a beautiful manipulation on me .
first he let me go to the prime minister of the country ,
who told me , if you can find the money you need for this network , 200 million dollars , and if you can find a car company that will build that car in mass volume , in two million cars -- that 's what we needed in israel --
i 'll give you country to invest the 200 million into .
peres thought that was a great idea .
so we went out , and we looked at all the car companies .
we sent letters to all the car companies .
three of them never showed up . one of them asked us
if we would stay with hybrids and they would give us a discount .
but one of them carlos ghosn , ceo of renault and nissan , when asked about hybrids said something very fascinating .
he said hybrids are like mermaids .
when you want a fish you get a woman and when you need a woman you get a fish .
and ghosn came up and said , " i have the car , mr. peres ; i will build you the cars . "
and actually true to form , renault has put a billion and a half dollars in building nine different types of cars that fit this kind of model that will come into the market in mass volume -- mass volume being the first year , 100 thousand cars .
it 's the first mass-volume electric car ,
zero-emission electric car in the market .
i was running , as chris said , to be the ceo of a large software company called sap and then peres said , " well won 't you run this project ? "
and i said , " i 'm ready for ceo " and he said , " oh no no no no no . you 've got to explain to me , what is more important than saving your country and saving the world , that you would go and do ? "
and i had to quit and come and do this thing called a better place .
we then decided to scale it up .
we went to other countries . as i said we went to denmark .
and denmark set this beautiful policy ; it 's called the iq test .
it 's inversely proportional to taxes .
they put 180 percent tax on gasoline cars
and zero tax on zero-emission cars .
so if you want to buy a gasoline car in denmark , it costs you about 60,000 euros .
if you buy our car it 's about 20,000 euros .
if you fail the iq test they ask you to leave the country .
we then were sort of coined as the guys who run only in small islands .
i know most people don 't think of israel as a small island ,
but israel is an island -- it 's a transportation island .
if your car is driving outside israel it 's been stolen .
if you 're thinking about it in terms of islands , we decided to go to the biggest island that we could find ,
and that was australia . the third country we announced was australia .
it 's got three centers -- in brisbane , in melbourne , in sydney -- and one freeway , one electric freeway that connects them .
the next island was not too hard to find , and that was hawaii .
we decided to come into the u.s. and pick the two best places -- the one where you didn 't need any range extension .
hawaii you can drive around the island on one battery .
and if you really have a long day you can switch , and keep on driving around the island .
the second one was the san francisco bay area
where gavin newsom created a beautiful policy across all the mayors .
he decided that he 's going to take over the state , unofficially , and then officially ,
and then created this beautiful region one policy .
in the san francisco bay area not only do you have the highest concentration of priuses , but you also have the perfect range extender .
it 's called the other car .
as we stared scaling it up we looked at what is the problem to come up to the u.s. ?
why is this a big issue ?
and the most fascinating thing we 've learned is that , when you have small problems on the individual level , like the price of gasoline to drive every morning .
you don 't notice it , but when the aggregate comes up you 're dead . alright ?
so the price of oil , much like lots of other curves that we 've seen , goes along a depletion curve .
the foundation of this curve is that we keep losing the wells that are close to the ground .
and we keep getting wells that are farther away from the ground .
it becomes more and more and more expensive to dig them out .
you think , well it 's been up , it 's been down , its been up , it 's going to keep on going up and down .
here is the problem : at 147 dollars a barrel , which we were in six months ago , the u.s. spent a ton of money to get oil .
then we lost our economy and we went back down to 47 --
sometimes it 's 40 , sometimes it 's 50 .
now we 're running a stimulus package .
it 's called the trillion-dollar stimulus package .
we 're going to revive the economy . hopefully it happens between now and 2015 , somewhere in that space .
what happens when the economy recovers ?
by 2015 we would have had at least 250 million new cars even at the pace we 're going at right now .
that 's another 30 percent demand on oil .
that is another 25 million barrels a day .
that 's all the u.s. usage today .
in other words at some point when we 've recovered we go up to the peak .
and then we do the opec stimulus package also known as 200 dollars a barrel .
we take our money and we give it away .
you know what happens at that point ?
we go back down . it 's going to go up and down .
and the downs are going to be much longer
and the ups are going to be much shorter .
and that 's the difference between problems that are additive , like co2 , which we go slowly up and then we tip , and problems that are depletive , in which we lose what we have , which oscillate , and they oscillate until we lose everything we 've got .
now we actually looked at what the answer would be .
right ? remember in the campaign : one million hybrid cars by 2015 .
that is 0.5 percent of the u.s. oil consumption .
that is oh point oh well percent of the rest of the world .
that won 't do much difference .
we looked at an mit study : ten million electric cars on the global roads .
ten million out of 500 million we will add between now and then .
that is the most pessimistic number you can have .
it 's also the most optimistic number
because it means we will scale this industry from 100 thousand cars is 2011 , to 10 million cars by 2016 -- 100 x growth in less than five years .
you have to remember that the world today is bringing in so many cars .
we have 10 million cars by region .
that 's an enormous amount of cars .
china is adding those cars -- india , russia , brazil .
we have all these regions .
europe has solved it . they just put a tax on gasoline .
they 'll be the first in line to get off
because their prices are high .
china solves it by an edict . at some point they 'll just declare that no gasoline car will come into a city , and that will be it .
the indians don 't even understand why we think of it as a problem because most people in india fill two or three gallons every time .
for them to get a battery that goes 120 miles is an extension on range , not a reduction in range .
we 're the only ones who don 't have the price set right .
we don 't have the industry set right .
we don 't have any incentive to go and resolve it across the u.s .
now where is the car industry on that ?
very interesting . the car industry has been focused just on themselves .
they basically looked at it and said , " car 1.0 we 'll solve everything within the car itself . "
no infrastructure , no problem .
we forgot about the entire chain around us .
all this stuff that happens around .
we are looking at the emergence of a car 2.0 -- a whole new market , a whole new business model .
the business model in which the money that is actually coming in , to drive the car -- the minutes , the miles if you want , that you are all familiar with -- subsidize the price of the car , just like cellphones . you 'll pay for the miles .
and some of it will go back to the car maker .
some of it will go back to your own pocket .
but our cars are actually going to be cheaper than gasoline cars .
you 're looking at a world where cars are matched with windmills .
in denmark , we will drive all the cars in denmark from windmills , not from oil .
in israel , we 've asked to put a solar farm in the south of israel .
and people said , " oh that 's a very very large space that you 're asking for . "
and we said , " what if we had proven that in the same space we found oil for the country for the next hundred years ? "
and they said , " we tried . there isn 't any . "
we said , " no no , but what if we prove it ? "
and they said , " well you can dig . " and we decided to dig up ,
instead of digging down .
these are perfect matches to one another .
now all you need is about 10 percent of the electricity generated .
think of it as a project that spans over about 10 years .
that 's one percent a year .
now when we 're looking at solving big problems , we need to start thinking in two numbers .
and those are not 20 percent by 2020 .
the two numbers are zero -- as in zero footprint or zero oil --
and scale it infinity .
and when we go to cop15 at the end of this year
we can 't stop thinking of padding co2 .
we have to start thinking about giving kickers to countries that are willing to go to this kind of scale .
one car emits four tons .
and actually 700 and change million cars today emit 2.8 billion tons of co2 .
that 's , in the additive , about 25 percent of our problem .
cars and trucks add up to about 25 percent of the world 's co2 emissions .
we have to come and attack this problem with a focus , with an effort that actually says , we 're going to go to zero before the world ends .
i actually shared that with some legislators here in the u.s .
i shared it with a gentleman called bobby kennedy jr . , who is one of my idols .
i told him one of the reasons that his uncle was remembered is because he said we 're going to send a man to the moon , and we 'll do it by the end of the decade .
we didn 't say we 're going to send a man 20 percent to the moon .
and there will be about a 20 percent chance we 'll recover him .
he actually shared with me another story , which is from about 200 years ago .
200 years ago , in parliament , in great britain , there was a long argument
over economy versus morality .
25 percent -- just like 25 percent emissions today comes from cars --
25 percent of their energy for the entire industrial world in the u.k. came from a source of energy that was immoral : human slaves .
and there was an argument . should we stop using slaves ?
and what would it do to our economy ?
and people said , " well we need to take time to do it .
let 's not do it immediately . maybe we free the kids
and keep the slaves .
and after a month of arguments they decided to stop slavery ,
and the industrial revolution started within less than one year .
and the u.k. had 100 years of economic growth .
we have to make the right moral decision .
we have to make it immediately .
we need to have presidential leadership
just like we had in israel that said we will end oil .
and we need to do it not within 20 years or 50 years , but within this presidential term
because if we don 't , we will lose our economy , right after we 'd lost our morality .
thank you all very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / richard _ dawkins _ on _ militant _ atheism.html
richard dawkins urges all atheists to openly state their position -- and to fight the incursion of the church into politics and science . a fiery , funny , powerful talk .
god , atheism , culture , politics , religion , science
113
richard dawkins on militant atheism
that splendid music , the coming-in music -- " the elephant march " from " aida " -- is the music i 've chosen for my funeral -- -- and you can see why . it 's triumphal .
i won 't feel anything , but if i could , i would feel triumphal at having lived at all , and at having lived on this splendid planet , and having been given the opportunity to understand something about why i was here in the first place , before not being here .
can you understand my quaint english accent ?
like everybody else , i was entranced yesterday by the animal session .
robert full and frans lanting and others -- the beauty of the things they showed .
the only slight jarring note was when jeffrey katzenberg said of the mustang , " the most splendid creatures that god put on this earth . " now of course , we know that he didn 't really mean that , but in this country at the moment , you can 't be too careful .
i 'm a biologist , and the central theorem of our subject : the theory of design , darwin 's theory of evolution by natural selection .
in professional circles everywhere , it 's of course universally accepted .
in non-professional circles outside america , it 's largely ignored .
but in non-professional circles within america , it arouses so much hostility -- -- that it 's fair to say that american biologists are in a state of war .
the war is so worrying at present , with court cases coming up in one state after another , that i felt i had to say something about it .
if you want to know what i have to say about darwinism itself , i 'm afraid you 're going to have to look at my books , which you won 't find in the bookstore outside .
contemporary court cases often concern an allegedly new version of creationism , called " intelligent design , " or id .
don 't be fooled . there 's nothing new about id .
it 's just creationism under another name , rechristened -- i choose the word advisedly -- -- for tactical , political reasons .
the arguments of so-called id theorists are the same old arguments that had been refuted again and again , since darwin down to the present day .
there is an effective evolution lobby coordinating the fight on behalf of science , and i try to do all i can to help them , but they get quite upset when people like me dare to mention that we happen to be atheists as well as evolutionists .
they see us as rocking the boat , and you can understand why .
creationists , lacking any coherent scientific argument for their case , fall back on the popular phobia against atheism .
teach your children evolution in biology class , and they 'll soon move on to drugs , grand larceny and sexual pre-version .
in fact , of course , educated theologians from the pope down are firm in their support of evolution .
this book , " finding darwin 's god , " by kenneth miller , is one of the most effective attacks on intelligent design that i know , and it 's all the more effective because it 's written by a devout christian .
people like kenneth miller could be called a " godsend " to the evolution lobby -- -- because they expose the lie that evolutionism is , as a matter of fact , tantamount to atheism . people like me , on the other hand , rock the boat .
but here , i want to say something nice about creationists .
it 's not a thing i often do , so listen carefully .
i think they 're right about one thing .
i think they 're right that evolution is fundamentally hostile to religion .
i 've already said that many individual evolutionists , like the pope , are also religious , but i think they 're deluding themselves .
i believe a true understanding of darwinism is deeply corrosive to religious faith .
now , it may sound as though i 'm about to preach atheism , and i want to reassure you that that 's not what i 'm going to do .
in an audience as sophisticated as this one , that would be preaching to the choir .
no , what i want to urge upon you --
-- instead what i want to urge upon you is militant atheism .
but that 's putting it too negatively .
if i was a person who were interested in preserving religious faith , i would be very afraid of the positive power of evolutionary science , and indeed science generally , but evolution in particular , to inspire and enthrall , precisely because it is atheistic .
now , the difficult problem for any theory of biological design is to explain the massive statistical improbability of living things .
statistical improbability in the direction of good design -- " complexity " is another word for this .
the standard creationist argument -- there is only one ; they all reduce to this one -- takes off from a statistical improbability .
living creatures are too complex to have come about by chance ; therefore , they must have had a designer .
this argument of course , shoots itself in the foot .
any designer capable of designing something really complex has to be even more complex himself , and that 's before we even start on the other things he 's expected to do , like forgive sins , bless marriages , listen to prayers --
favor our side in a war --
-- disapprove of our sex lives and so on .
complexity is the problem that any theory of biology has to solve , and you can 't solve it by postulating an agent that is even more complex , thereby simply compounding the problem .
darwinian natural selection is so stunningly elegant because it solves the problem of explaining complexity in terms of nothing but simplicity .
essentially , it does it by providing a smooth ramp of gradual step-by-step increment .
but here , i only want to make the point that the elegance of darwinism is corrosive to religion precisely because it is so elegant , so parsimonious , so powerful , so economically powerful .
it has the sinewy economy of a beautiful suspension bridge .
the god theory is not just a bad theory .
it turns out to be , in principle , incapable of doing the job required of it .
so , returning to tactics and the evolution lobby , i want to argue that rocking the boat may be just the right thing to do .
my approach to attacking creationism is unlike the evolution lobby .
my approach to attacking creationism is to attack religion as a whole , and at this point i need to acknowledge the remarkable taboo against speaking ill of religion ,
and i 'm going to do so in the words of the late douglas adams , a dear friend who , if he never came to ted , certainly should have been invited .
richard dawkins : he was . good . i thought he must have been .
he begins this speech which was tape-recorded in cambridge shortly before he died .
he begins by explaining how science works through the testing of hypotheses that are framed to be vulnerable to disproof , and then he goes on .
i quote , " religion doesn 't seem to work like that .
it has certain ideas at the heart of it , which we call ' sacred ' or ' holy . ' what it means is : here is an idea or a notion that you 're not allowed to say anything bad about .
you 're just not . why not ? because you 're not .
why should it be that it 's perfectly legitimate to support the republicans or democrats , this model of economics versus that , macintosh instead of windows , but to have an opinion about how the universe began , about who created the universe -- no , that 's holy .
so , we 're used to not challenging religious ideas and it 's very interesting how much of a furor richard creates when he does it . " he meant me , not that one .
" everybody gets absolutely frantic about it , because you 're not allowed to say these things , yet when you look at it rationally , there is no reason why those ideas shouldn 't be as open to debate as any other , except that we 've agreed somehow between us that they shouldn 't be . " and that 's the end of the quote from douglas .
in my view , not only is science corrosive to religion ; religion is corrosive to science .
it teaches people to be satisfied with trivial , supernatural non-explanations and blinds them to the wonderful real explanations that we have within our grasp .
it teaches them to accept authority , revelation and faith instead of always insisting on evidence .
there 's douglas adams , magnificent picture from his book , " last chance to see . "
now , there 's a typical scientific journal , the quarterly review of biology .
and i 'm going to put together , as guest editor , a special issue on the question , " did an asteroid kill the dinosaurs ? "
and the first paper is a standard scientific paper presenting evidence , " iridium layer at the k-t boundary , potassium-argon dated crater in yucatan , indicate that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs . "
perfectly ordinary scientific paper .
now , the next one , " the president of the royal society has been vouchsafed a strong inner conviction " -- -- ... " that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs . "
" it has been privately revealed to professor huxtane that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs . "
" professor hordley was brought up to have total and unquestioning faith " -- -- ... " that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs . "
" professor hawkins has promulgated an official dogma binding on all loyal hawkinsians that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs . "
that 's inconceivable , of course .
but suppose --
-- in 1987 , a reporter asked george bush , sr. whether he recognized the equal citizenship and patriotism of americans who are atheists .
mr. bush 's reply has become infamous .
" no , i don 't know that atheists should be considered citizens , nor should they be considered patriots .
this is one nation under god . " bush 's bigotry was not an isolated mistake , blurted out in the heat of the moment and later retracted .
he stood by it in the face of repeated calls for clarification or withdrawal .
he really meant it .
more to the point , he knew it posed no threat to his election , quite the contrary .
democrats as well as republicans parade their religiousness if they want to get elected . both parties invoke " one nation under god . "
what would thomas jefferson have said ?
incidentally , i 'm not usually very proud of being british , but you can 't help making the comparison .
in practice , what is an atheist ?
an atheist is just somebody who feels about yahweh the way any decent christian feels about thor or baal or the golden calf .
as has been said before , we are all atheists about most of the gods that humanity has ever believed in . some of us just go one god further .
and however we define atheism , it 's surely the kind of academic belief that a person is entitled to hold without being vilified as an unpatriotic , unelectable non-citizen .
nevertheless , it 's an undeniable fact that to own up to being an atheist is tantamount to introducing yourself as mr. hitler or miss beelzebub .
and that all stems from the perception of atheists as some kind of weird , way-out minority .
natalie angier wrote a rather sad piece in the new yorker , saying how lonely she felt as an atheist .
she clearly feels in a beleaguered minority , but actually , how do american atheists stack up numerically ?
the latest survey makes surprisingly encouraging reading .
christianity , of course , takes a massive lion 's share of the population , with nearly 160 million .
but what would you think was the second largest group , convincingly outnumbering jews with 2.8 million , muslims at 1.1 million , and hindus , buddhists and all other religions put together ?
the second largest group , of nearly 30 million , is the one described as non-religious or secular .
you can 't help wondering why vote-seeking politicians are so proverbially overawed by the power of , for example , the jewish lobby .
the state of israel seems to owe its very existence to the american jewish vote , while at the same time consigning the non-religious to political oblivion .
this secular non-religious vote , if properly mobilized , is nine times as numerous as the jewish vote .
why does this far more substantial minority not make a move to exercise its political muscle ?
well , so much for quantity . how about quality ?
is there any correlation , positive or negative , between intelligence and tendency to be religious ?
the survey that i quoted , which is the aris survey , didn 't break down its data by socio-economic class or education , iq or anything else .
but a recent article by paul g. bell in the mensa magazine provides some straws in the wind .
mensa , as you know , is an international organization for people with very high iq .
and from a meta-analysis of the literature , bell concludes that , i quote , " of 43 studies carried out since 1927 on the relationship between religious belief and one 's intelligence or educational level , all but four found an inverse connection .
that is , the higher one 's intelligence or educational level , the less one is likely to be religious . "
well , i haven 't seen the original 42 studies and i can 't comment on that meta-anaysis but i would like to see more studies done along those lines .
and i know that there are , if i could put a little plug here , there are people in this audience easily capable of financing a massive research survey to settle the question , and i put the suggestion up -- for what it 's worth .
but let me know show you some data that have been properly published and analyzed on one special group , namely , top scientists .
in 1998 , larson and witham polled the cream of american scientists , those who 'd been honored by election to the national academy of sciences , and among this select group , belief in a personal god dropped to a shattering seven percent .
about 20 percent are agnostic , and the rest could fairly be called atheists .
similar figures obtained for belief in personal immortality .
among biological scientists , the figures are even lower : 5.5 percent , only , believe in god . physical scientists : it 's 7.5 percent .
i 've not seen corresponding figures for elite scholars in other fields , such history or philosophy , but i 'd be surprised if they were different .
so , we 've reached a truly remarkable situation , a grotesque mismatch between the american intelligentsia and the american electorate .
a philosophical opinion about the nature of the universe , which is held by the vast majority of top american scientists and probably the majority of the intelligentsia generally , is so abhorrent to the american electorate that no candidate for popular election dare affirm it in public .
if i 'm right , this means that high office in the greatest country in the world is barred to the very people best qualified to hold it -- the intelligentsia -- unless they are prepared to lie about their beliefs .
to put it bluntly , american political opportunities are heavily loaded against those who are simultaneously intelligent and honest .
i 'm not a citizen of this country , so i hope it won 't be thought unbecoming if i suggest that something needs to be done .
and i 've already hinted what that something is .
from what i 've seen of ted , i think this may be the ideal place to launch it .
again , i fear it will cost money .
we need a consciousness-raising , coming-out campaign for american atheists .
this could be similar to the campaign organized by homosexuals a few years ago , although heaven forbid that we should stoop to public outing of people against their will .
in most cases , people who out themselves will help to destroy the myth that there is something wrong with atheists .
on the contrary , they 'll demonstrate that atheists are often the kinds of people that could serve as decent role models for your children ,
the kinds of people an advertising agent could use to recommend a product ,
the kinds of people who are sitting in this room .
there should be a snowball effect , a positive feedback , such that the more names we have , the more we get .
there could be non-linearities , threshold effects .
when a critical mass has been attained , there 's an abrupt acceleration in recruitment .
and again , it will need money .
i suspect that the word " atheist " itself contains or remains a stumbling block far out of proportion to what it actually means , and a stumbling block to people who otherwise might be happy to out themselves .
so , what other words might be used to smooth the path , oil the wheels , sugar the pill ? darwin himself preferred " agnostic " -- and not only out of loyalty to his friend huxley , who coined the term .
darwin said , " i have never been an atheist in the same sense of denying the existence of a god .
i think that generally an ' agnostic ' would be the most correct description of my state of mind . "
he even became uncharacteristically tetchy with edward aveling .
aveling was a militant atheist who failed to persuade darwin to accept the dedication of his book on atheism -- incidentally , giving rise to a fascinating myth that karl marx tried to dedicate " das kapital " to darwin , which he didn 't . it was actually edward aveling .
what happened was that aveling 's mistress was marx 's daughter , and when both darwin and marx were dead , marx 's papers became muddled up with aveling 's papers and a letter from darwin saying , " my dear sir , thank you very much but i don 't want you to dedicate your book to me , " was mistakenly supposed to be addressed to marx , and that gave rise to this whole myth , which you 've probably heard .
it 's a sort of urban myth , that marx tried to dedicate " kapital " to darwin .
anyway , it was aveling , and when they met , darwin challenged aveling , " why do you call yourselves atheists ? "
" ' agnostic , ' " retorted aveling , " was simply ' atheist ' writ respectable , and ' atheist ' was simply ' agnostic ' writ aggressive . "
darwin complained , " but why should you be so aggressive ? "
darwin thought that atheism might be well and good for the intelligentsia , but that ordinary people were not , quote , " ripe for it . "
which is , of course , our old friend , the " don 't rock the boat " argument .
it 's not recorded whether aveling told darwin to come down off his high horse .
but in any case , that was more than 100 years ago . you think we might have grown up since then .
now , a friend , an intelligent lapsed jew , who incidentally observed the sabbath for reasons of cultural solidarity , describes himself as a " tooth fairy agnostic . "
he won 't call himself an atheist because it 's , in principle , impossible to prove a negative , but agnostic on its own might suggest that god 's existence was therefore on equal terms of likelihood as his non-existence .
so , my friend is strictly agnostic about the tooth fairy , but it isn 't very likely , is it ? like god .
hence the phrase , " tooth fairy agnostic . " bertrand russell made the same point using a hypothetical teapot in orbit about mars .
you would strictly have to be agnostic about whether there is a teapot in orbit about mars , but that doesn 't mean you treat the likelihood of its existence as on all fours with its non-existence .
the list of things which we strictly have to be agnostic about doesn 't stop at tooth fairies and teapots . it 's infinite .
if you want to believe one particular one of them -- unicorns or tooth fairies or teapots or yahweh -- the onus is on you to say why .
the onus is not on the rest of us to say why not .
we , who are atheists , are also a-fairiests and a-teapotists .
but we don 't bother to say so , and this is why my friend uses " tooth fairy agnostic " as a label for what most people would call atheist .
nonetheless , if we want to attract deep down atheists to come out publicly , we 're going to have find something better to stick on our banner than " tooth fairy " or " teapot agnostic . "
so , how about " humanist " ?
this has the advantage of a worldwide network of well-organized associations and journals and things already in place .
my problem with it only is its apparent anthropocentrism .
one of the things we 've learned from darwin is that the human species is only one among millions of cousins , some close , some distant .
and there are other possibilities like " naturalist , "
but that also has problems of confusion , because darwin would have thought naturalist -- " naturalist " means , of course , as opposed to " supernaturalist " --
and it is used sometimes --
darwin would have been confused by the other sense of " naturalist , " which he was , of course , and i suppose there might be others who would confuse it with nudism .
such people might be those belonging to the british lynch mob which last year attacked a pediatrician in mistake for a pedophile .
i think the best of the available alternatives for " atheist " is simply " non-theist . "
it lacks the strong connotation that there 's definitely no god , and it could therefore easily be embraced by teapot or tooth fairy agnostics .
it 's completely compatible with the god of the physicists .
when atheists like stephen hawking and albert einstein use the word " god , " they use it of course as a metaphorical shorthand for that deep , mysterious part of physics which we don 't yet understand .
" non-theist " will do for all that , yet unlike " atheist , " it doesn 't have the same phobic , hysterical responses .
but i think , actually , the alternative is to grasp the nettle of the word " atheism " itself , precisely because it is a taboo word carrying frissons of hysterical phobia .
critical mass may be harder to achieve with the word " atheist " than with the word " non-theist , " or some other non-confrontational word .
but if we did achieve it with that dread word -- " atheist " itself -- the political impact would be even greater .
now , i said that if i were religious , i 'd be very afraid of evolution . i 'd go further .
i would fear science in general if properly understood .
and this is because the scientific worldview is so much more exciting , more poetic , more filled with sheer wonder than anything in the poverty-stricken arsenals of the religious imagination .
as carl sagan , another recently dead hero , put it , " how is it that hardly any major religion has looked at science and concluded , ' this is better than we thought !
the universe is much bigger than our prophet said , grander , more subtle , more elegant ? ' instead they say , ' no , no , no !
my god is a little god , and i want him to stay that way . '
a religion , old or new , that stressed the magnificence of the universe as revealed by modern science might be able to draw forth reserves of reverence and awe hardly tapped by the conventional faiths . "
now , this is an elite audience , and i would therefore expect about 10 percent of you to be religious .
many of you probably subscribe to our polite cultural belief that we should respect religion , but i also suspect that a fair number of those secretly despise religion as much as i do .
if you 're one of them , and of course many of you may not be , but if you are one of them , i 'm asking you to stop being polite , come out and say so , and if you happen to be rich , give some thought to ways in which you might make a difference .
the religious lobby in this country is massively financed by foundations -- to say nothing of all the tax benefits -- by foundations such as the templeton foundation and the discovery institute .
we need an anti-templeton to step forward .
if my books sold as well as stephen hawking 's books , instead of only as well as richard dawkins ' books , i 'd do it myself .
people are always going on about , " how did september the 11th change you ? "
well , here 's how it changed me .
let 's all stop being so damned respectful .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / ngozi _ okonjo _ iweala _ on _ doing _ business _ in _ africa.html
we know the negative images of africa -- famine and disease , conflict and corruption . but , says ngozi okonjo-iweala , there 's another , less-told story happening in many african nations : one of reform , economic growth and business opportunity .
africa , featured , business , corruption , global issues , investment , women
127
ngozi okonjo-iweala : want to help africa ? do business here
thank you very much , chris . everybody who came up here said they were scared . i don 't know if i 'm scared , but this is my first time of addressing an audience like this .
and i don 't have any smart technology for you to look at .
there are no slides , so you 'll just have to be content with me .
what i want to do this morning is share with you a couple of stories and talk about a different africa .
already this morning there were some allusions to the africa that you hear about all the time : the africa of hiv / aids , the africa of malaria , the africa of poverty , the africa of conflict , and the africa of disasters .
while it is true that those things are going on , there 's an africa that you don 't hear about very much .
and sometimes i 'm puzzled , and i ask myself why .
this is the africa that is changing , that chris alluded to .
this is the africa of opportunity .
this is the africa where people want to take charge of their own futures and their own destinies .
and this is the africa where people are looking for partnerships to do this . that 's what i want to talk about today .
and i want to start by telling you a story about that change in africa .
on 15th of september 2005 , mr. diepreye alamieyeseigha , a governor of one of the oil-rich states of nigeria , was arrested by the london metropolitan police on a visit to london .
he was arrested because there were transfers of eight million dollars that went into some dormant accounts that belonged to him and his family .
this arrest occurred because there was cooperation between the london metropolitan police and the economic and financial crimes commission of nigeria -- led by one of our most able and courageous people : mr. nuhu ribadu .
alamieyeseigha was arraigned in london .
due to some slip-ups , he managed to escape dressed as a woman and ran from london back to nigeria where , according to our constitution , those in office as governors , president -- as in many countries -- have immunity and cannot be prosecuted . but what happened : people were so outraged by this behavior that it was possible for his state legislature to impeach him and get him out of office .
today , alams -- as we call him for short -- is in jail .
this is a story about the fact that people in africa are no longer willing to tolerate corruption from their leaders .
this is a story about the fact that people want their resources managed properly for their good , and not taken out to places where they 'll benefit just a few of the elite .
and therefore , when you hear about the corrupt africa -- corruption all the time -- i want you to know that the people and the governments are trying hard to fight this in some of the countries , and that some successes are emerging .
does it mean the problem is over ? the answer is no .
there 's still a long way to go , but that there 's a will there .
and that successes are being chalked up on this very important fight .
so when you hear about corruption , don 't just feel that nothing is being done about this -- that you can 't operate in any african country because of the overwhelming corruption . that is not the case .
there 's a will to fight , and in many countries , that fight is ongoing and is being won . in others , like mine , where there has been a long history of dictatorship in nigeria , the fight is ongoing and we have a long way to go .
but the truth of the matter is that this is going on .
the results are showing : independent monitoring by the world bank and other organizations show that in many instances the trend is downwards in terms of corruption , and governance is improving .
a study by the economic commission for africa showed a clear trend upwards in governance in 28 african countries .
and let me say just one more thing before i leave this area of governance .
that is that people talk about corruption , corruption .
all the time when they talk about it you immediately think about africa .
that 's the image : african countries . but let me say this : if alams was able to export eight million dollars into an account in london -- if the other people who had taken money , estimated at 20 to 40 billion now of developing countries ' monies sitting abroad in the developed countries -- if they 're able to do this , what is that ? is that not corruption ?
in this country , if you receive stolen goods , are you not prosecuted ?
so when we talk about this kind of corruption , let us also think about what is happening on the other side of the globe -- where the money 's going and what can be done to stop it .
i 'm working on an initiative now , along with the world bank , on asset recovery , trying to do what we can to get the monies that have been taken abroad -- developing countries ' moneys -- to get that sent back .
because if we can get the 20 billion dollars sitting out there back , it may be far more for some of these countries than all the aid that is being put together .
the second thing i want to talk about is the will for reform .
africans , after -- they 're tired , we 're tired of being the subject of everybody 's charity and care .
we are grateful , but we know that we can take charge of our own destinies if we have the will to reform .
and what is happening in many african countries now is a realization that no one can do it but us . we have to do it .
we can invite partners who can support us , but we have to start .
we have to reform our economies , change our leadership , become more democratic , be more open to change and to information .
and this is what we started to do in one of the largest countries on the continent , nigeria .
in fact , if you 're not in nigeria , you 're not in africa .
i want to tell you that .
one in four sub-saharan africans is nigerian , and it has 140 million dynamic people -- chaotic people -- but very interesting people . you 'll never be bored .
what we started to do was to realize that we had to take charge and reform ourselves .
and with the support of a leader who was willing , at the time , to do the reforms , we put forward a comprehensive reform program , which we developed ourselves .
not the international monetary fund . not the world bank , where i worked for 21 years and rose to be a vice president .
no one can do it for you . you have to do it for yourself .
we put together a program that would , one : get the state out of businesses it had nothing -- it had no business being in .
the state should not be in the business of producing goods and services because it 's inefficient and incompetent .
so we decided to privatize many of our enterprises .
we -- as a result , we decided to liberalize many of our markets .
can you believe that prior to this reform -- which started at the end of 2003 , when i left washington to go and take up the post of finance minister -- we had a telecommunications company that was only able to develop 4,500 landlines in its entire 30-year history ?
having a telephone in my country was a huge luxury .
you couldn 't get it . you had to bribe .
you had to do everything to get your phone .
when president obasanjo supported and launched the liberalization of the telecommunications sector , we went from 4,500 landlines to 32 million gsm lines , and counting .
nigeria 's telecoms market is the second-fastest growing in the world , after china . we are getting investments of about a billion dollars a year in telecoms . and nobody knows , except a few smart people .
the smartest one , first to come in , was the mtn company of south africa .
and in the three years that i was finance minister , they made an average of 360 million dollars profit per year .
360 million in a market -- in a country that is a poor country , with an average per capita income just under 500 dollars per capita .
so the market is there .
when they kept this under wraps , but soon others got to know .
nigerians themselves began to develop some wireless telecommunications companies , and three or four others have come in .
but there 's a huge market out there , and people don 't know about it , or they don 't want to know .
so privatization is one of the things we 've done .
the other thing we 've also done is to manage our finances better .
because nobody 's going to help you and support you if you 're not managing your own finances well .
and nigeria , with the oil sector , had the reputation of being corrupt and not managing its own public finances well .
so what did we try to do ? we introduced a fiscal rule that de-linked our budget from the oil price .
before we used to just budget on whatever oil we bring in , because oil is the biggest , most revenue-earning sector in the economy : 70 percent of our revenues come from oil .
we de-linked that , and once we did it , we began to budget at a price slightly lower than the oil price and save whatever was above that price .
we didn 't know we could pull it off ; it was very controversial .
but what it immediately did was that the volatility that had been present in terms of our economic development -- where , even if oil prices were high , we would grow very fast .
when they crashed , we crashed .
and we could hardly even pay anything , any salaries , in the economy .
that smoothened out . we were able to save , just before i left , 27 billion dollars . whereas -- and this went to our reserves -- when i arrived in 2003 , we had seven billion dollars in reserves .
by the time i left , we had gone up to almost 30 billion dollars . and as we speak now , we have about 40 billion dollars in reserves due to proper management of our finances .
and that shores up our economy , makes it stable .
our exchange rate that used to fluctuate all the time is now fairly stable and being managed so that business people have a predictability of prices in the economy .
we brought inflation down from 28 percent to about 11 percent .
and we had gdp grow from an average of 2.3 percent the previous decade to about 6.5 percent now .
so all the changes and reforms we were able to make have shown up in results that are measurable in the economy .
and what is more important , because we want to get away from oil and diversify -- and there are so many opportunities in this one big country , as in many countries in africa -- what was remarkable is that much of this growth came not from the oil sector alone , but from non-oil .
agriculture grew at better than eight percent .
as telecoms sector grew , housing and construction , and i could go on and on . and this is to illustrate to you that once you get the macro-economy straightened out , the opportunities in various other sectors are enormous .
we have opportunities in agriculture , like i said .
we have opportunities in solid minerals . we have a lot of minerals that no one has even invested in or explored . and we realized that without the proper legislation to make that possible , that wouldn 't happen . so we 've now got a mining code that is comparable with some of the best in the world .
we have opportunities in housing and real estate .
there was nothing in a country of 140 million people -- no shopping malls as you know them here .
this was an investment opportunity for someone that excited the imagination of people .
and now , we have a situation in which the businesses in this mall are doing four times the turnover that they had projected .
so , huge things in construction , real estate , mortgage markets . financial services : we had 89 banks . too many not doing their real business .
we consolidated them from 89 to 25 banks by requiring that they increase their capital -- share capital .
and it went from about 25 million dollars to 150 million dollars .
the banks -- these banks are now consolidated , and that strengthening of the banking system has attracted a lot of investment from outside .
barclays bank of the u.k. is bringing in 500 million .
standard chartered has brought in 140 million .
and i can go on . dollars , on and on , into the system .
we are doing the same with the insurance sector .
so in financial services , a great deal of opportunity .
in tourism , in many african countries , a great opportunity .
and that 's what many people know east africa for : the wildlife , the elephants , and so on .
but managing the tourism market in a way that can really benefit the people is very important .
so what am i trying to say ? i 'm trying to tell you that there 's a new wave on the continent .
a new wave of openness and democratization in which , since 2000 , more than two-thirds of african countries have had multi-party democratic elections .
not all of them have been perfect , or will be , but the trend is very clear .
i 'm trying to tell you that since the past three years , the average rate of growth on the continent has moved from about 2.5 percent to about five percent per annum .
this is better than the performance of many oecd countries .
so it 's clear that things are changing .
conflicts are down on the continent ; from about 12 conflicts a decade ago , we are down to three or four conflicts -- one of the most terrible , of course , of which is darfur .
and , you know , you have the neighborhood effect where if something is going on in one part of the continent , it looks like the entire continent is affected .
but you should know that this continent is not -- is a continent of many countries , not one country .
and if we are down to three or four conflicts , it means that there are plenty of opportunities to invest in stable , growing , exciting economies where there 's plenty of opportunity .
and i want to just make one point about this investment .
the best way to help africans today is to help them to stand on their own feet .
and the best way to do that is by helping create jobs .
there 's no issue with fighting malaria and putting money in that and saving children 's lives . that 's not what i 'm saying . that is fine .
but imagine the impact on a family : if the parents can be employed and make sure that their children go to school , that they can buy the drugs to fight the disease themselves .
if we can invest in places where you yourselves make money whilst creating jobs and helping people stand on their own feet , isn 't that a wonderful opportunity ? isn 't that the way to go ?
and i want to say that some of the best people to invest in on the continent are the women .
i have a cd here . i 'm sorry that i didn 't say anything on time .
otherwise , i would have liked you to have seen this .
it says , " africa : open for business . " and this is a video that has actually won an award as the best documentary of the year .
understand that the woman who made it is going to be in tanzania , where they 're having the session in june .
but it shows you africans , and particularly african women , who against all odds have developed businesses , some of them world-class .
one of the women in this video , adenike ogunlesi , making children 's clothes -- which she started as a hobby and grew into a business .
mixing african materials , such as we have , with materials from elsewhere .
so , she 'll make a little pair of dungarees with corduroys , with african material mixed in . very creative designs ,
has reached a stage where she even had an order from wal-mart .
for 10,000 pieces .
so that shows you that we have people who are capable of doing .
and the women are diligent . they are focused ; they work hard .
i could go on giving examples : beatrice gakuba of rwanda , who opened up a flower business and is now exporting to the dutch auction in amsterdam each morning and is employing 200 other women and men to work with her .
however , many of these are starved for capital to expand , because nobody believes outside of our countries that we can do what is necessary . nobody thinks in terms of a market .
nobody thinks there 's opportunity .
but i 'm standing here saying that those who miss the boat now , will miss it forever .
so if you want to be in africa , think about investing .
think about the beatrices , think about the adenikes of this world , who are doing incredible things , that are bringing them into the global economy , whilst at the same time making sure that their fellow men and women are employed , and that the children in those households get educated because their parents are earning adequate income .
so i invite you to explore the opportunities .
when you go to tanzania , listen carefully , because i 'm sure you will hear of the various openings that there will be for you to get involved in something that will do good for the continent , for the people and for yourselves .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / yochai _ benkler _ on _ the _ new _ open _ source _ economics.html
yochai benkler explains how collaborative projects like wikipedia and linux represent the next stage of human organization .
google , business , collaboration , economics , law , social change , technology , wikipedia
247
yochai benkler on the new open-source economics
one of the problems of writing , and working , and looking at the internet is that it 's very hard to separate fashion from deep change .
and so , to start helping that , i want to take us back to 1835 .
in 1835 , james gordon bennett founded the first mass-circulation newspaper in new york city .
and it cost about 500 dollars to start it , which was about the equivalent of 10,000 dollars of today .
by 15 years later , by 1850 , doing the same thing -- starting what was experienced as a mass--circulation daily paper -- would come to cost two and a half million dollars .
10,000 , two and a half million , 15 years .
that 's the critical change that is being inverted by the net .
and that 's what i want to talk about today , and how that relates to the emergence of social production .
starting with newspapers , what we saw was high cost as an initial requirement for making information , knowledge and culture , which led to a stark bifurcation between producers -- who had to be able to raise financial capital , just like any other industrial organization -- and passive consumers that could choose from a certain set of things that this industrial model could produce .
now , the term " information society , " " information economy , " for a very long time has been used as the thing that comes after
the industrial revolution . but in fact , for purposes of understanding what 's happening
today , that 's wrong . because for 150 years , we 've had an information economy .
it 's just been industrial ,
which means those who were producing had to have a way of raising money to pay those two and a half million dollars , and later , more for the telegraph , and the radio transmitter , and the television , and eventually the mainframe .
and that meant they were market based , or they were government owned , depending on what kind of system they were in . and this characterized and anchored the way information and knowledge were produced for the next 150 years .
now , let me tell you a different story . around june 2002 , the world of supercomputers had a bombshell .
the japanese had , for the first time , created the fastest supercomputer -- the nec earth simulator -- taking the primary from the u.s. , and about two years later -- this , by the way , is measuring the trillion floating-point operations per second that the computer 's capable of running --
sigh of relief : ibm [ blue gene ] has just edged ahead of the nec earth simulator .
all of this completely ignores the fact that throughout this period , there 's another supercomputer running in the world -- seti @ home . four and a half million users around the world , contributing their leftover computer cycles , whenever their computer isn 't working , by running a screen saver , and together sharing their resources to create a massive supercomputer that nasa harnesses to analyze the data coming from radio telescopes .
what this picture suggests to us is that we 've got a radical change in the way information production and exchange is capitalized . not that it 's become less capital intensive -- that there 's less money that 's required -- but that the ownership of this capital , the way the capitalization happens , is radically distributed . each of us , in these advanced economies , has one of these , or something rather like it -- a computer .
they 're not radically different from routers inside the middle of the network .
and computation , storage and communications capacity are in the hands of practically every connected person -- and these are the basic physical capital means necessary for producing information , knowledge and culture , in the hands of something like 600 million to a billion people around the planet .
what this means is that for the first time since the industrial revolution , the most important means , the most important components of the core economic activities -- remember , we are in an information economy -- of the most advanced economies , and there more than anywhere else , are in the hands of the population at large . this is completely different than what we 've seen since the industrial revolution . so we 've got communications and computation capacity in the hands of the entire population , and we 've got human creativity , human wisdom , human experience -- the other major experience , the other major input --
which unlike simple labor -- stand here turning this lever all day long -- is not something that 's the same or fungible among people .
any one of you who has taken someone else 's job , or tried to give yours to someone else , no matter how detailed the manual , you cannot transmit what you know , what you will intuit under a certain set of circumstances .
in that we 're unique , and each of us holds this critical input into production as we hold this machine .
what 's the effect of this ? so , the story that most people know is the story of free or open source software .
this is market share of apache web server -- one of the critical applications in web-based communications .
in 1995 , two groups of people said , " wow , this is really important , the web ! we need a much better web server ! "
one was a motley collection of volunteers who just decided , you know , we really need this , we should write one , and what are we going to do with what -- well , we 're gonna share it ! and other people will be able to develop it .
the other was microsoft .
now , if i told you that 10 years later , the motley crew of people , who didn 't control anything that they produced , acquired 20 percent of the market and was the red line , it would be amazing ! right ?
think of it in minivans . a group of automobile engineers on their weekends are competing with toyota . right ?
but , in fact , of course , the story is it 's the 70 percent , including the major e-commerce site -- 70 percent of a critical application on which web-based communications and applications work is produced in this form , in direct competition with microsoft . not in a side issue -- in a central strategic decision to try to capture a component of the net .
software has done this in a way that 's been very visible , because it 's measurable . but the thing to see is that this actually happens throughout the web .
so , nasa , at some point , did an experiment where they took images of mars that they were mapping , and they said , instead of having three or four fully trained ph.d.s doing this all the time , let 's break it up into small components , put it up on the web , and see if people , using a very simple interface , will actually spend five minutes here , 10 minutes there , clicking . after six months , 85,000 people used this to generate mapping at a faster rate than the images were coming in , which was , quote , " practically indistinguishable from the markings of a fully-trained ph.d. , " once you showed it to a number of people and computed the average .
now , if you have a little girl , and she goes and writes to -- well , not so little , medium little -- tries to do research on barbie .
and she 'll come to encarta , one of the main online encyclopedias . this is what you 'll find out about barbie . this is it , there 's nothing more to the definition , including , " manufacturers " -- plural -- " now more commonly produce ethnically diverse dolls , like this black barbie . " which is vastly better than what you 'll find in the encyclopedia.com , which is barbie , klaus .
on the other hand , if they go to wikipedia , they 'll find a genuine article -- and i won 't talk a lot about wikipedia , because jimmy wales is here -- but roughly equivalent to what you would find in the britannica , differently written , including the controversies over body image and commercialization , the claims about the way in which she 's a good role model , etc .
another portion is not only how content is produced , but how relevance is produced .
the claim to fame of yahoo ! was , we hire people to look -- originally , not anymore -- we hire people to look at websites and tell you -- if they 're in the index , they 're good . this , on the other hand , is what 60,000 passionate volunteers produce in the open directory project ,
each one willing to spend an hour or two on something they really care about , to say , this is good . so , this is the open directory project , with 60,000 volunteers , each one spending a little bit of time , as opposed to a few hundred fully paid employees . no one owns it , no one owns the output , it 's free for anyone to use and it 's the output of people acting out of social and psychological motivations to do something interesting .
this is not only outside of businesses . when you think of what is the critical innovation of google , the critical innovation is outsourcing the one most important thing -- the decision about what 's relevant -- to the community of the web as a whole , doing whatever they want to do : so , page rank .
the critical innovation here is instead of our engineers , or our people saying which is the most relevant , we 're going to go out and count what you , people out there on the web , for whatever reason -- vanity , pleasure -- produced links , and tied to each other . we 're going to count those , and count them up .
and again , here , you see barbie.com , but also , very quickly , adiosbarbie.com , the body image for every size . a contested cultural object , which you won 't find anywhere soon on overture , which is the classic market-based mechanism : whoever pays the most is highest on the list .
so , all of that is in the creation of content , of relevance , basic human expression .
but remember , the computers were also physical . just physical materials -- our pcs -- we share them together . we also see this in wireless .
it used to be wireless was one person owned the license , they transmitted in an area , and it had to be decided whether they would be licensed or based on property .
what we 're seeing now is that computers and radios are becoming so sophisticated that we 're developing algorithms to let people own machines , like wi-fi devices , and overlay them with a sharing protocol that would allow a community like this to build its own wireless broadband network simply from the simple principle : when i 'm listening , when i 'm not using , i can help you transfer your messages ;
and when you 're not using , you 'll help me transfer yours .
and this is not an idealized version . these are working models that at least in some places in the united states are being implemented , at least for public security .
if in 1999 i told you , let 's build a data storage and retrieval system .
it 's got to store terabytes . it 's got to be available 24 hours a day , seven days a week . it 's got to be available from anywhere in the world .
it has to support over 100 million users at any given moment . it 's got to be robust to attack , including closing the main index , injecting malicious files , armed seizure of some major nodes . you 'd say that would take years .
it would take millions . but of course , what i 'm describing is p2p file sharing .
right ? we always think of it as stealing music , but fundamentally , it 's a distributed data storage and retrieval system , where people , for very obvious reasons , are willing to share their bandwidth and their storage to create something .
so , essentially what we 're seeing is the emergence of a fourth transactional framework . it used to be that there were two primary dimensions along which
you could divide things . they could be market based , or non-market based ; they could be decentralized , or centralized .
the price system was a market-based and decentralized system .
if things worked better because you actually had somebody organizing them , you had firms , if you wanted to be in the market -- or you had governments or sometimes larger non-profits in the non-market .
it was too expensive to have decentralized social production , to have decentralized action in society . that was not about society itself .
that was , in fact , economic .
but what we 're seeing now is the emergence of this fourth system of social sharing and exchange .
not that it 's the first time that we do nice things to each other , or for each other , as social beings . we do it all the time .
it 's that it 's the first time that it 's having major economic impact .
what characterizes them is decentralized authority .
you don 't have to ask permission , as you do in a property-based system .
may i do this ? it 's open for anyone to create and innovate and share , if they want to , by themselves or with others , because property is one mechanism of coordination . but it 's not the only one .
instead , what we see are social frameworks for all of the critical things that we use property and contract in the market : information flows to decide what are interesting problems ; who 's available and good for something ; motivation structures -- remember , money isn 't always the best motivator .
if you leave a $ 50 check after dinner with friends , you don 't increase the probability of being invited back .
and if dinner isn 't entirely obvious , think of sex .
it also requires certain new organizational approaches .
and in particular , what we 've seen is task organization .
you have to hire people who know what they 're doing .
you have to hire them to spend a lot of time .
now , take the same problem , chunk it into little modules , and motivations become trivial .
five minutes , instead of watching tv ?
five minutes i 'll spend just because it 's interesting . just because it 's fun .
just because it gives me a certain sense of meaning , or , in places that are more involved , like wikipedia , gives me a certain set of social relations .
so , a new social phenomenon is emerging .
it 's creating , and it 's most visible when we see it as a new form of competition .
peer-to-peer networks assaulting the recording industry ; free and open source software taking market share from microsoft ; skype potentially threatening traditional telecoms ; wikipedia competing with online encyclopedias .
but it 's also a new source of opportunities for businesses .
as you see a new set of social relations and behaviors emerging , you have new opportunities . some of them are toolmakers .
instead of building well-behaved appliances -- things that you know what they 'll do in advance -- you begin to build more open tools . there 's a new set of values , a new set of things people value .
you build platforms for self-expression and collaboration .
like wikipedia , like the open directory project , you 're beginning to build platforms , and you see that as a model .
and you see surfers , people who see this happening , and in some sense build it into a supply chain , which is a very curious one . right ?
you have a belief : stuff will flow out of connected human beings .
that 'll give me something i can use , and i 'm going to contract with someone .
i will deliver something based on what happens . it 's very scary -- that 's what google does , essentially .
that 's what ibm does in software services , and they 've done reasonably well .
so , social production is a real fact , not a fad .
it is the critical long-term shift caused by the internet .
social relations and exchange become significantly more important than they ever were as an economic phenomenon . in some contexts , it 's even more efficient because of the quality of the information , the ability to find the best person , the lower transaction costs . it 's sustainable and growing fast .
but -- and this is the dark lining -- it is threatened by -- in the same way that it threatens -- the incumbent industrial systems .
so next time you open the paper , and you see an intellectual property decision , a telecoms decision , it 's not about something small and technical .
it is about the future of the freedom to be as social beings with each other , and the way information , knowledge and culture will be produced .
because it is in this context that we see a battle over how easy or hard it will be for the industrial information economy to simply go on as it goes , or for the new model of production to begin to develop alongside that industrial model , and change the way we begin to see the world and report what it is that we see .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / seth _ berkley _ hiv _ and _ flu _ the _ vaccine _ strategy.html
seth berkley explains how smart advances in vaccine design , production and distribution are bringing us closer than ever to eliminating a host of global threats -- from aids to malaria to flu pandemics .
aids , epidemiology , global issues , health , medicine
869
seth berkley : hiv and flu -- the vaccine strategy
do you worry about what is going to kill you ?
heart disease , cancer , a car accident ?
most of us worry about things we can 't control , like war , terrorism , the tragic earthquake that just occurred in haiti .
but what really threatens humanity ?
a few years ago , professor vaclav smil tried to calculate the probability of sudden disasters large enough to change history .
he called these , " massively fatal discontinuities , " meaning that they could kill up to 100 million people in the next 50 years .
he looked at the odds of another world war , of a massive volcanic eruption , even of an asteroid hitting the earth .
but he placed the likelihood of one such event above all others at close to 100 percent , and that is a severe flu pandemic .
now , you might think of flu as just a really bad cold ,
but it can be a death sentence .
every year , 36,000 people in the united states die of seasonal flu .
in the developing world , the data is much sketchier but the death toll is almost certainly higher .
you know , the problem is if this virus occasionally mutates so dramatically , it essentially is a new virus
and then we get a pandemic .
in 1918 , a new virus appeared that killed some 50 to 100 million people .
it spread like wildfire
and some died within hours of developing symptoms .
are we safer today ?
well , we seem to have dodged the deadly pandemic this year that most of us feared , but this threat could reappear at any time .
the good news is that we 're at a moment in time when science , technology , globalization is converging to create an unprecedented possibility : the possibility to make history by preventing infectious diseases that still account for one-fifth of all deaths and countless misery on earth . we can do this .
we 're already preventing millions of deaths with existing vaccines ,
and if we get these to more people , we can certainly save more lives .
but with new or better vaccines for malaria , tb , hiv , pneumonia , diarrhea , flu , we could end suffering that has been on the earth since the beginning of time .
so , i 'm here to trumpet vaccines for you . but first , i have to explain why they 're important
because vaccines , the power of them , is really like a whisper .
when they work , they can make history , but after a while you can barely hear them .
now , some of us are old enough to have a small , circular scar on our arms from an inoculation we received as children .
but when was the last time you worried about smallpox , a disease that killed half a billion people last century and no longer is with us ?
or polio ? how many of you remember the iron lung ?
we don 't see scenes like this anymore because of vaccines .
now , it 's interesting because there are 30-odd diseases that can be treated with vaccines now , but we 're still threatened by things like hiv and flu .
why is that ?
well , here 's the dirty little secret . until recently , we haven 't had to know exactly how a vaccine worked .
we knew they worked through old-fashioned trial and error .
you took a pathogen , you modified it , you injected it into a person or an animal and you saw what happened .
this worked well for most pathogens , somewhat well for crafty bugs like flu , but not at all for hiv , for which humans have no natural immunity .
so let 's explore how vaccines work .
they basically create a cache of weapons for your immune system which you can deploy when needed .
now , when you get a viral infection , what normally happens is it takes days or weeks for your body to fight back at full strength , and that might be too late .
when you 're pre-immunized , what happens is you have forces in your body pre-trained to recognize and defeat specific foes .
so that 's really how vaccines work .
now , let 's take a look at a video that we 're debuting at ted , for the first time , on how an effective hiv vaccine might work .
narrator : a vaccine trains the body in advance how to recognize and neutralize a specific invader .
after hiv penetrates the body 's mucosal barriers , it infects immune cells to replicate .
the invader draws the attention of the immune system 's front-line troops .
dendritic cells , or macrophages , capture the virus and display pieces of it .
memory cells generated by the hiv vaccine are activated when they learn hiv is present from the front-line troops .
these memory cells immediately deploy the exact weapons needed .
memory b cells turn into plasma cells , which produce wave after wave of the specific antibodies that latch onto hiv to prevent it from infecting cells , while squadrons of killer t cells seek out and destroy cells that are already hiv infected .
the virus is defeated .
without a vaccine , these responses would have taken more than a week .
by that time , the battle against hiv would already have been lost .
seth berkley : really cool video , isn 't it ?
the antibodies you just saw in this video , in action , are the ones that make most vaccines work .
so the real question then is : how do we ensure that your body makes the exact ones that we need to protect against flu and hiv ?
the principal challenge for both of these viruses is that they 're always changing .
so let 's take a look at the flu virus .
in this rendering of the flu virus , these different colored spikes are what it uses to infect you .
and also , what the antibodies use is a handle to essentially grab and neutralize the virus .
when these mutate , they change their shape , and the antibodies don 't know what they 're looking at anymore .
so that 's why every year you can catch a slightly different strain of flu .
it 's also why in the spring , we have to make a best guess at which three strains are going to prevail the next year , put those into a single vaccine and rush those into production for the fall .
even worse , the most common influenza -- influenza a -- also infects animals that live in close proximity to humans , and they can recombine in those particular animals .
in addition , wild aquatic birds carry all known strains of influenza .
so , you 've got this situation :
in 2003 , we had an h5n1 virus that jumped from birds into humans in a few isolated cases with an apparent mortality rate of 70 percent .
now luckily , that particular virus , although very scary at the time , did not transmit from person to person very easily .
this year 's h1n1 threat was actually a human , avian , swine mixture that arose in mexico .
it was easily transmitted , but , luckily , was pretty mild .
and so , in a sense , our luck is holding out , but you know , another wild bird could fly over at anytime .
now let 's take a look at hiv .
as variable as flu is , hiv makes flu look like the rock of gibraltar .
the virus that causes aids is the trickiest pathogen scientists have ever confronted .
it mutates furiously ,
it has decoys to evade the immune system ,
it attacks the very cells that are trying to fight it
and it quickly hides itself in your genome .
here 's a slide looking at the genetic variation of flu and comparing that to hiv , a much wilder target . in the video a moment ago , you saw fleets of new viruses launching from infected cells .
now realize that in a recently infected person , there are millions of these ships ; each one is just slightly different .
finding a weapon that recognizes and sinks all of them makes the job that much harder .
now , in the 27 years since hiv was identified as the cause of aids , we 've developed more drugs to treat hiv than all other viruses put together .
these drugs aren 't cures , but they represent a huge triumph of science because they take away the automatic death sentence from a diagnosis of hiv , at least for those who can access them .
the vaccine effort though is really quite different .
large companies moved away from it because they thought the science was so difficult and vaccines were seen as poor business .
many thought that it was just impossible to make an aids vaccine , but today , evidence tells us otherwise .
in september , we had surprising but exciting findings from a clinical trial that took place in thailand .
for the first time , we saw an aids vaccine work in humans -- albeit , quite modestly --
and that particular vaccine was made almost a decade ago .
newer concepts and early testing now show even greater promise in the best of our animal models .
but in the past few months , researchers have also isolated several new broadly neutralizing antibodies from the blood of an hiv infected individual .
now , what does this mean ?
we saw earlier that hiv is highly variable , that a broad neutralizing antibody latches on and disables multiple variations of the virus .
if you take these and you put them in the best of our monkey models , they provide full protection from infection .
in addition , these researchers found a new site on hiv where the antibodies can grab onto ,
and what 's so special about this spot is that it changes very little as the virus mutates .
it 's like , as many times as the virus changes its clothes , it 's still wearing the same socks , and now our job is to make sure we get the body to really hate those socks .
so what we 've got is a situation .
the thai results tell us we can make an aids vaccine ,
and the antibody findings tell us how we might do that .
this strategy , working backwards
from an antibody to create a vaccine candidate , has never been done before in vaccine research .
it 's called retro-vaccinology , and its implications extend way beyond that of just hiv .
so think of it this way .
we 've got these new antibodies we 've identified , and we know that they latch onto many , many variations of the virus .
we know that they have to latch onto a specific part ,
so if we can figure out the precise structure of that part , present that through a vaccine , what we hope is we can prompt your immune system to make these matching antibodies .
and that would create a universal hiv vaccine .
now , it sounds easier than it is because the structure actually looks more like this blue antibody diagram attached to its yellow binding site ,
and as you can imagine , these three-dimensional structures are much harder to work on .
and if you guys have ideas to help us solve this , we 'd love to hear about it .
but , you know , the research that has occurred from hiv now has really helped with innovation with other diseases .
so for instance , a biotechnology company has now found broadly neutralizing antibodies to influenza , as well as a new antibody target on the flu virus .
they 're currently making a cocktail -- an antibody cocktail -- that can be used to treat severe , overwhelming cases of flu .
in the longer term , what they can do is use these tools of retro-vaccinology to make a preventive flu vaccine .
now , retro-vaccinology is just one technique within the ambit of so-called rational vaccine design .
let me give you another example .
we talked about before the h and n spikes on the surface of the flu virus .
notice these other , smaller protuberances .
these are largely hidden from the immune system .
now it turns out that these spots also don 't change much when the virus mutates .
if you can cripple these with specific antibodies , you could cripple all versions of the flu .
so far , animal tests indicate that such a vaccine could prevent severe disease , although you might get a mild case .
so if this works in humans , what we 're talking about is a universal flu vaccine , one that doesn 't need to change every year and would remove the threat of death .
we really could think of flu , then , as just a bad cold .
of course , the best vaccine imaginable is only valuable to the extent we get it to everyone who needs it .
so to do that , we have to combine smart vaccine design with smart production methods and , of course , smart delivery methods .
so i want you to think back a few months ago .
in june , the world health organization declared the first global flu pandemic in 41 years .
the u.s. government promised 150 million doses of vaccine by october 15th for the flu peak .
vaccines were promised to developing countries .
hundreds of millions of dollars were spent and flowed to accelerating vaccine manufacturing .
so what happened ?
well , we first figured out how to make flu vaccines , how to produce them ,
in the early 1940s . it was a slow , cumbersome process that depended on chicken eggs , millions of living chicken eggs .
viruses only grow in living things , and so it turned out that , for flu , chicken eggs worked really well .
for most strains , you could get one to two doses of vaccine per egg .
luckily for us , we live in an era of breathtaking biomedical advances .
so today , we get our flu vaccines from ...
chicken eggs , hundreds of millions of chicken eggs .
almost nothing has changed .
the system is reliable
but the problem is you never know how well a strain is going to grow .
this year 's swine flu strain grew very poorly in early production : basically .6 doses per egg .
so , here 's an alarming thought .
what if that wild bird flies by again ?
you could see an avian strain that would infect the poultry flocks , and then we would have no eggs for our vaccines .
so , dan [ barber ] , if you want billions of chicken pellets for your fish farm , i know where to get them .
so right now , the world can produce about 350 million doses of flu vaccine for the three strains ,
and we can up that to about 1.2 billion doses if we want to target a single variant like swine flu .
but this assumes that our factories are humming because , in 2004 , the u.s. supply was cut in half by contamination at one single plant .
and the process still takes more than half a year .
so are we better prepared than we were in 1918 ?
well , with the new technologies emerging now , i hope we can say definitively , " yes . "
imagine we could produce enough flu vaccine for everyone in the entire world for less than half of what we 're currently spending now in the united states .
with a range of new technologies , we could .
here 's an example : a company i 'm engaged with has found a specific piece of the h spike of flu that sparks the immune system .
if you lop this off and attach it to the tail of a different bacterium , which creates a vigorous immune response , they 've created a very powerful flu fighter .
this vaccine is so small it can be grown in a common bacteria , e. coli . now , as you know , bacteria reproduce quickly --
it 's like making yogurt --
and so we could produce enough swine origin flu for the entire world in a few factories , in a few weeks , with no eggs , for a fraction of the cost of current methods .
so here 's a comparison of several of these new vaccine technologies .
and , aside from the radically increased production and huge cost savings -- for example , the e. coli method i just talked about -- look at the time saved : this would be lives saved .
the developing world , mostly left out of the current response , sees the potential of these alternate technologies and they 're leapfrogging the west .
india , mexico and others are already making experimental flu vaccines , and they may be the first place we see these vaccines in use .
because these technologies are so efficient and relatively cheap , billions of people can have access to lifesaving vaccines if we can figure out how to deliver them .
now think of where this leads us .
new infectious diseases appear or reappear every few years .
some day , perhaps soon , we 'll have a virus that is going to threaten all of us .
will we be quick enough to react before millions die ?
luckily , this year 's flu was relatively mild .
i say , " luckily " in part because virtually no one in the developing world was vaccinated .
so if we have the political and financial foresight to sustain our investments , we will master these and new tools of vaccinology ,
and with these tools we can produce enough vaccine for everyone at low cost and ensure healthy productive lives .
no longer must flu have to kill half a million people a year .
no longer does aids need to kill two million a year .
no longer do the poor and vulnerable need to be threatened by infectious diseases , or indeed , anybody .
instead of having vaclav smil 's " massively fatal discontinuity " of life , we can ensure the continuity of life .
what the world needs now are these new vaccines , and we can make it happen .
thank you very much .
chris anderson : thank you .
thank you . so , the science is changing .
in your mind , seth -- i mean , you must dream about this -- what is the kind of time scale on , let 's start with hiv , for a game-changing vaccine that 's actually out there and usable ?
sb : the game change can come at any time , because the problem we have now is we 've shown we can get a vaccine to work in humans ; we just need a better one .
and with these types of antibodies , we know humans can make them .
so , if we can figure out how to do that , then we have the vaccine , and what 's interesting is there already is some evidence that we 're beginning to crack that problem .
so , the challenge is full speed ahead .
ca : in your gut , do you think it 's probably going to be at least another five years ?
sb : you know , everybody says it 's 10 years , but it 's been 10 years every 10 years .
so i hate to put a timeline on scientific innovation , but the investments that have occurred are now paying dividends .
ca : and that 's the same with universal flu vaccine , the same kind of thing ?
sb : i think flu is different . i think what happened with flu is we 've got a bunch -- i just showed some of this -- a bunch of really cool and useful technologies that are ready to go now .
they look good . the problem has been that , what we did is we invested in traditional technologies because that 's what we were comfortable with .
you also can use adjuvants , which are chemicals you mix .
that 's what europe is doing , so we could have diluted out our supply of flu and made more available ,
but , going back to what michael specter said , the anti-vaccine crowd didn 't really want that to happen .
ca : and malaria 's even further behind ?
sb : no , malaria , there is a candidate that actually showed efficacy in an earlier trial and is currently in phase three trials now .
it probably isn 't the perfect vaccine , but it 's moving along .
ca : seth , most of us do work where every month , we produce something ; we get that kind of gratification .
you 've been slaving away at this for more than a decade , and i salute you and your colleagues for what you do .
the world needs people like you . thank you .
sb : thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / george _ ayittey _ on _ cheetahs _ vs _ hippos.html
ghanaian economist george ayittey unleashes a torrent of controlled anger toward corrupt leaders in africa -- and calls on the " cheetah generation " to take back the continent .
africa , business , development , economics , entrepreneur , global issues , philanthropy , politics
151
george ayittey on cheetahs vs. hippos
well , first of all , let me thank emeka -- as a matter of fact , ted global -- for putting this conference together .
this conference is going to rank as the most important in the beginning of the 21st century .
think african governments will put together a conference like this ?
you think the a.u. will put together a conference like this ?
even before they do that they will ask for foreign aid .
i would also like to pay homage and honor to the ted fellows june arunga , james shikwati , andrew , and the other ted fellows .
i call them the cheetah generation .
the cheetah generation is a new breed of africans who brook no nonsense about corruption .
they understand what accountability and democracy is .
they 're not going to wait for government to do things for them .
that 's the cheetah generation ,
and africa 's salvation rests on the backs of these cheetahs .
in contrast , of course , we have the hippo generation .
the hippo generation are the ruling elites . they are stuck in their intellectual patch . complaining about colonialism and imperialism , they wouldn 't move one foot .
if you ask them to reform the economies , they 're not going to reform it because they benefit from the rotten status quo .
now , there are a lot of africans who are very angry , angry at the condition of africa .
now , we 're talking about a continent that is not poor .
it is rich in mineral resources , natural mineral resources .
but the mineral wealth of africa is not being utilized to lift its people out of poverty .
that 's what makes a lot of africans very angry . and in a way , africa is more than a tragedy , in more ways than one .
there 's another enduring tragedy , and that tragedy is that there are so many people , so many governments , so many organizations who want to help the people in africa . they don 't understand .
now , we 're not saying don 't help africa .
helping africa is noble .
but helping africa has been turned into a theater of the absurd .
it 's like the blind leading the clueless .
there are certain things that we need to recognize .
africa 's begging-bowl leaks .
did you know that 40 percent of the wealth created in africa is not invested here in africa ?
it 's taken out of africa .
that 's what the world bank says .
look at africa 's begging-bowl .
it leaks horribly .
there are people who think that we should pour more money , more aid into this bowl which leaks .
what are the leakages ?
corruption alone costs africa 148 billion dollars a year .
yes , put that aside .
capital flight out of africa , 80 billion a year .
put that aside .
let 's take food imports .
every year africa spends 20 billion dollars to import food . just add that up , all these leakages .
that 's far more than the 50 billion tony blair wants to raise for africa .
now , back in the 1960s africa not only fed itself , it also exported food .
not anymore .
we know that something has gone fundamentally wrong . you know it , i know it , but let 's not waste our time talking about these mistakes because we 'll spend all day here .
let 's move on , and flip over to the next chapter ,
and that 's what this conference is all about -- the next chapter .
the next chapter begins with first of all , asking ourselves this fundamental question , " whom do we want to help in africa ? "
there is the people , and then there is the government or leaders .
now , the previous speaker before me , idris mohammed , indicated that we 've had abysmal leadership in africa .
that characterization , in my view , is even more charitable .
i belong to an internet discussion forum , an african internet discussion forum , and i asked them , i said , " since 1960 , we 've had exactly 204 african heads of state , since 1960 . "
and i asked them to name me just 20 good leaders , just 20 good leaders -- you may want to take this leadership challenge yourself .
i asked them to name me just 20 .
everybody mentioned nelson mandela , of course .
kwame nkrumah , nyerere , kenyatta -- somebody mentioned idi amin . i let that pass .
my point is , they couldn 't go beyond 15 .
even if they had been able to name me 20 , what does that tell you ?
20 out of 204 means that the vast majority of the african leaders failed their people .
and if you look at them , the slate of the post-colonial leaders -- an assortment of military fufu heads ,
swiss-bank socialists , crocodile liberators , vampire elites , quack revolutionaries .
now , this leadership is a far cry from the traditional leaders that africans have known for centuries .
the second false premise that we make when we 're trying to help africa is that sometimes we think that there is something called a government in africa that cares about its people , serves the interests of the people , and represents the people .
there is one particular quote -- a lesotho chief once said that " here in lesotho , we 've got two problems : rats and the government . "
what you and i understand as a government doesn 't exist in many african countries .
in fact , what we call our governments are vampire states .
vampires because they suck the economic vitality out of their people .
government is the problem in africa .
a vampire state is the government -- -- which has been hijacked by a phalanx of bandits and crooks who use the instruments of state power to enrich themselves , their cronies , and tribesmen and exclude everybody else .
the richest people in africa are heads-of-state and ministers , and quite often the chief bandit is the head-of-state himself .
where do they get their money ?
by creating wealth ?
no .
by raking it off the backs of their suffering people .
that 's not wealth creation . it 's wealth redistribution .
the third fundamental issue that we have to recognize is that if we want to help the african people , we must know where the african people are .
take any african economy .
an african economy can be broken up into three sectors .
there is the modern sector , there is the informal sector and the traditional sector .
the modern sector is the abode of the elites .
it 's the seat of government .
in many african countries the modern sector is lost .
it 's dysfunctional .
it is a meretricious fandango of imported systems , which the elites themselves don 't understand .
that is the source of many of africa 's problems where the struggles for political power emanate and then spill over onto the informal and the traditional sector , claiming innocent lives .
now the modern sector , of course , is where a lot of the development aid and resources went into .
more than 80 percent of ivory coast 's development went into the modern sector .
the other sectors , the informal and the traditional sectors , are where you find the majority of the african people ,
the real people in africa . that 's where you find them .
now , obviously it makes common sense that if you want to help the people , you go where the people are .
but that 's not what we did .
as a matter of fact , we neglected the informal and the traditional sectors .
now , traditional sector is where africa produces its agriculture , which is one of the reasons why africa can 't feed itself , and that 's why it must import food .
all right , you cannot develop africa by ignoring the informal and the traditional sectors .
and you can 't develop the informal and the traditional sectors without an operational understanding of how these two sectors work .
these two sectors , let me describe to you , have their own indigenous institutions .
first one is the political system .
traditionally , africans hate governments . they hate tyranny .
if you look into their traditional systems , africans organize their states in two types .
the first one belongs to those ethnic societies who believe that the state was necessarily tyrannous , so they didn 't want to have anything to do with any centralized authority .
these societies are the ibo , the somali , the kikuyus , for example . they have no chiefs .
the other ethnic groups , which did have chiefs , made sure that they surrounded the chiefs with councils upon councils upon councils to prevent them from abusing their power .
in ashanti tradition , for example , the chief cannot make any decision without the concurrence of the council of elders .
without the council the chief can 't pass any law , and if the chief doesn 't govern according to the will of the people he will be removed .
if not , the people will abandon the chief , go somewhere else and set up a new settlement .
and even if you look in ancient african empires , they were all organized around one particular principle -- the confederacy principle , which is characterized by a great deal of devolution of authority , decentralization of power .
now , this is what i have described to you . this is part of africa 's indigenous political heritage .
now , compare that to the modern systems the ruling elites established on africa .
it is a total far cry .
in the economic system in traditional africa , the means of production is privately owned .
it 's owned by extended families .
you see , in the west , the basic economic and social unit is the individual .
the american will say , " i am because i am , and i can damn well do anything i want , anytime . "
the accent is on the " i. "
in africa , the africans say , " i am , because we are . "
the " we " connotes community -- the extended family system .
the extended family system pools its resources together .
they own farms . they decide what to do , what to produce .
they don 't take any orders from their chiefs . they decide what to do .
and when they produce their crops , they sell the surplus on marketplaces .
when they make a profit it is theirs to keep , not for the chief to sequester it from them .
so , in a nutshell , what we had in traditional africa was a free-market system .
there were markets in africa before the colonialists stepped foot on the continent .
timbuktu was one great big market town .
kano , salaga -- they were all there .
even if you go to west africa , you notice that market activity in west africa has always been dominated by women .
so , it 's quite appropriate that this section is called a marketplace .
the market is not alien to africa .
what africans practiced was a different form of capitalism , but then after independence , all of a sudden , markets , capitalism became a western institution , and the leaders said africans were ready for socialism .
nonsense .
and even then , what kind of socialism did they practice ?
the socialism that they practiced was a peculiar form of swiss-bank socialism , which allowed the heads of states and the ministers to rape and plunder africa 's treasuries for deposit in switzerland .
that is not the kind of system africans had known for centuries .
what do we do now ?
go back to africa 's indigenous institutions , and this is where we charge the cheetahs to go into the informal sectors , the traditional sectors . that 's where you find the african people .
and i 'd like to show you a quick little video about the informal sector , about the boat-building that i , myself , tried to mobilize africans in the diaspora to invest in .
could you please show that ?
the men are going fishing in these small boats .
yes , it 's an enterprise .
this is by a local ghanaian entrepreneur , using his own capital .
he 's getting no assistance from the government , and he 's building a second , bigger boat .
a bigger boat will mean more fish will be caught and landed .
it means that he will be able to employ more ghanaians .
it also means that he will be able to generate wealth .
and then it will have what economists call external effects on a local economy .
all that you need to do , all that the elites need to do , is to move this operation into something that is enclosed so that the operation can be made more efficient .
now , it is not just this informal sector . there is also traditional medicine .
80 percent of africans still rely on traditional medicine .
the modern healthcare sector has totally collapsed . now , this is an area -- i mean , there is a treasure trove of wealth in the traditional medicine area .
this is where we need to mobilize africans , in the diaspora especially , to invest in this .
we also need to mobilize africans in the diaspora , not only to go into the traditional sectors , but to go into agriculture and also to instigate change from within .
we were able to mobilize ghanaians in the diaspora to instigate change in ghana and bring about democracy in ghana .
and i know that with the cheetahs , we can take africa back one village at a time .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / stewart _ brand _ on _ squatter _ cities.html
rural villages worldwide are being deserted , as billions of people flock to cities to live in teeming squatter camps and slums . stewart brand says this is a good thing . why ? it 'll take you 3 minutes to find out .
business , cities , culture , future , global issues , poverty , short talk , technology
123
stewart brand on squatter cities
basically , there 's a major demographic event going on .
and it may be that passing the 50 percent urban point is an economic tipping point . so the world now is a map of connectivity .
it used to be that paris and london and new york were the largest cities .
what we have now is the end of the rise of the west . that 's over .
the aggregate numbers are overwhelming .
so what 's really going on ? well , villages of the world are emptying out .
the question is , why ?
and here 's the unromantic truth -- and the city air makes you free , they said in renaissance germany . so some people go to places like shanghai but most go to the squatter cities where aesthetics rule .
and these are not really a people oppressed by poverty .
they 're people getting out of poverty as fast as they can .
they 're the dominant builders and to a large extent , the dominant designers .
they have home-brewed infrastructure and vibrant urban life .
one-sixth of the gdp in india is coming out of mumbai .
they are constantly upgrading , and in a few cases , the government helps .
education is the main event that can happen in cities .
what 's going on in the street in mumbai ?
al gore knows . it 's basically everything .
there 's no unemployment in squatter cities . everyone works .
one-sixth of humanity is there . it 's soon going to be more than that .
so here 's the first punch line :
cities have defused the population bomb .
and here 's the second punch line .
that 's the news from downtown . here it is in perspective .
stars have shined down on earth 's life for billions of years .
now we 're shining right back up .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eli _ pariser _ beware _ online _ filter _ bubbles.html
as web companies strive to tailor their services to our personal tastes , there 's a dangerous unintended consequence : we get trapped in a " filter bubble " and don 't get exposed to information that could challenge or broaden our worldview . eli pariser argues powerfully that this will ultimately prove to be bad for us and bad for democracy .
culture , global issues , journalism , politics , technology
1091
eli pariser : beware online " filter bubbles "
mark zuckerberg , a journalist was asking him a question about the news feed .
and the journalist was asking him , " why is this so important ? "
and zuckerberg said , " a squirrel dying in your front yard may be more relevant to your interests right now than people dying in africa . "
and i want to talk about what a web based on that idea of relevance might look like .
so when i was growing up in a really rural area in maine , the internet meant something very different to me .
it meant a connection to the world .
it meant something that would connect us all together .
and i was sure that it was going to be great for democracy and for our society .
but there 's this shift in how information is flowing online , and it 's invisible .
and if we don 't pay attention to it , it could be a real problem .
so i first noticed this in a place i spend a lot of time -- my facebook page .
i 'm progressive , politically -- big surprise -- but i 've always gone out of my way to meet conservatives .
i like hearing what they 're thinking about ; i like seeing what they link to ; i like learning a thing or two .
and so i was surprised when i noticed one day that the conservatives had disappeared from my facebook feed .
and what it turned out was going on was that facebook was looking at which links i clicked on , and it was noticing that , actually , i was clicking more on my liberal friends ' links than on my conservative friends ' links .
and without consulting me about it , it had edited them out .
they disappeared .
so facebook isn 't the only place that 's doing this kind of invisible , algorithmic editing of the web .
google 's doing it too .
if i search for something , and you search for something , even right now at the very same time , we may get very different search results .
even if you 're logged out , one engineer told me , there are 57 signals that google looks at -- everything from what kind of computer you 're on to what kind of browser you 're using to where you 're located -- that it uses to personally tailor your query results .
think about it for a second : there is no standard google anymore .
and you know , the funny thing about this is that it 's hard to see .
you can 't see how different your search results are from anyone else 's .
but a couple of weeks ago , i asked a bunch of friends to google " egypt " and to send me screen shots of what they got .
so here 's my friend scott 's screen shot .
and here 's my friend daniel 's screen shot .
when you put them side-by-side , you don 't even have to read the links to see how different these two pages are .
but when you do read the links , it 's really quite remarkable .
daniel didn 't get anything about the protests in egypt at all in his first page of google results .
scott 's results were full of them .
and this was the big story of the day at that time .
that 's how different these results are becoming .
so it 's not just google and facebook either .
this is something that 's sweeping the web .
there are a whole host of companies that are doing this kind of personalization .
yahoo news , the biggest news site on the internet , is now personalized -- different people get different things .
huffington post , the washington post , the new york times -- all flirting with personalization in various ways .
and this moves us very quickly toward a world in which the internet is showing us what it thinks we want to see , but not necessarily what we need to see .
as eric schmidt said , " it will be very hard for people to watch or consume something that has not in some sense been tailored for them . "
so i do think this is a problem .
and i think , if you take all of these filters together , you take all these algorithms , you get what i call a filter bubble .
and your filter bubble is your own personal , unique universe of information that you live in online .
and what 's in your filter bubble depends on who you are , and it depends on what you do .
but the thing is that you don 't decide what gets in .
and more importantly , you don 't actually see what gets edited out .
so one of the problems with the filter bubble was discovered by some researchers at netflix .
and they were looking at the netflix queues , and they noticed something kind of funny that a lot of us probably have noticed , which is there are some movies that just sort of zip right up and out to our houses .
they enter the queue , they just zip right out .
so " iron man " zips right out , and " waiting for superman " can wait for a really long time .
what they discovered was that in our netflix queues there 's this epic struggle going on between our future aspirational selves and our more impulsive present selves .
you know we all want to be someone who has watched " rashomon , " but right now we want to watch " ace ventura " for the fourth time .
so the best editing gives us a bit of both .
it gives us a little bit of justin bieber and a little bit of afghanistan .
it gives us some information vegetables ; it gives us some information dessert .
and the challenge with these kinds of algorithmic filters , these personalized filters , is that , because they 're mainly looking at what you click on first , it can throw off that balance .
and instead of a balanced information diet , you can end up surrounded by information junk food .
what this suggests is actually that we may have the story about the internet wrong .
in a broadcast society -- this is how the founding mythology goes -- in a broadcast society , there were these gatekeepers , the editors , and they controlled the flows of information .
and along came the internet and it swept them out of the way , and it allowed all of us to connect together , and it was awesome .
but that 's not actually what 's happening right now .
what we 're seeing is more of a passing of the torch from human gatekeepers to algorithmic ones .
and the thing is that the algorithms don 't yet have the kind of embedded ethics that the editors did .
so if algorithms are going to curate the world for us , if they 're going to decide what we get to see and what we don 't get to see , then we need to make sure that they 're not just keyed to relevance .
we need to make sure that they also show us things that are uncomfortable or challenging or important -- this is what ted does -- other points of view .
and the thing is , we 've actually been here before as a society .
in 1915 , it 's not like newspapers were sweating a lot about their civic responsibilities .
then people noticed that they were doing something really important .
that , in fact , you couldn 't have a functioning democracy if citizens didn 't get a good flow of information ,
that the newspapers were critical because they were acting as the filter , and then journalistic ethics developed .
it wasn 't perfect , but it got us through the last century .
and so now , we 're kind of back in 1915 on the web .
and we need the new gatekeepers to encode that kind of responsibility into the code that they 're writing .
i know that there are a lot of people here from facebook and from google -- larry and sergey -- people who have helped build the web as it is , and i 'm grateful for that .
but we really need you to make sure that these algorithms have encoded in them a sense of the public life , a sense of civic responsibility .
we need you to make sure that they 're transparent enough that we can see what the rules are that determine what gets through our filters .
and we need you to give us some control so that we can decide what gets through and what doesn 't .
because i think we really need the internet to be that thing that we all dreamed of it being .
we need it to connect us all together .
we need it to introduce us to new ideas and new people and different perspectives .
and it 's not going to do that if it leaves us all isolated in a web of one .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / al _ gore _ on _ averting _ climate _ crisis.html
with the same humor and humanity he exuded in < em > an inconvenient truth , < / em > al gore spells out 15 ways that individuals can address climate change immediately , from buying a hybrid to inventing a new , hotter " brand name " for global warming .
alternative energy , cars , climate change , culture , environment , global issues , politics , science , sustainability , technology
1
al gore on averting climate crisis
thank you so much , chris . and it 's truly a great honor to have the opportunity to come to this stage twice . i 'm extremely grateful .
i have been blown away by this conference , and i want to thank all of you for the many nice comments about what i had to say the other night .
and i say that sincerely , partly because -- -- i need that ! put yourselves in my position !
i flew on air force two for eight years .
now i have to take off my shoes or boots to get on an airplane !
i 'll tell you one quick story to illustrate what that 's been like for me .
it 's a true story -- every bit of this is true .
soon after tipper and i left the -- -- white house -- -- we were driving from our home in nashville to a little farm we have 50 miles east of nashville -- driving ourselves .
i know it sounds like a little thing to you , but -- -- i looked in the rearview mirror and all of a sudden it just hit me .
there was no motorcade back there .
you 've heard of phantom limb pain ? this was a rented ford taurus . it was dinnertime , and we started looking for a place to eat .
we were on i-40 . we got to exit 238 , lebanon , tennessee .
we got off the exit , started looking for a -- we found a shoney 's restaurant .
low-cost family restaurant chain , for those of you who don 't know it .
we went in and sat down at the booth , and the waitress came over ,
made a big commotion over tipper . she took our order , and then went to the couple in the booth next to us ,
and she lowered her voice so much i had to really strain to hear what she was saying .
she said " yes , that 's former vice president al gore and his wife tipper . " and the man said , " he 's come down a long way , hasn 't he ? " there 's been kind of a series of epiphanies .
the very next day , continuing a totally true story ,
i got on a g-5 to fly to africa to make a speech in nigeria , in the city of lagos , on the topic of energy .
i began the speech by telling them the story of what had just happened the day before in nashville .
i told it pretty much the same way i 've just shared it with you :
tipper and i were driving ourselves , shoney 's , low-cost family restaurant chain , what the man said -- they laughed .
i gave my speech , then went back out to the airport to fly back home .
i fell asleep on the plane , until during the middle of the night , we landed on the azores islands for refueling .
i woke up , they opened the door , i went out to get some fresh air ,
and i looked and there was a man running across the runway .
and he was waving a piece of paper , and he was yelling , " call washington ! call washington ! "
and i thought to myself , in the middle of the night , in the middle of the atlantic , what in the world could be wrong in washington ?
then i remembered it could be a bunch of things .
but what it turned out to be was that my staff was extremely upset because one of the wire services in nigeria had already written a story about my speech .
and it had already been printed in cities all across the united states of america
-- it was printed in monterey , i checked . and the story began , " former vice president al gore announced in nigeria yesterday , ' my wife tipper and i have opened a low-cost family restaurant , named shoney 's , and we are running it ourselves . ' " before i could get back to u.s. soil , david letterman and jay leno had already started in on -- one of them had me in a big white chef 's hat , tipper was saying , " one more burger , with fries ! "
three days later , i got a nice , long , handwritten letter from my friend and partner and colleague bill clinton saying , " congratulations on the new restaurant , al ! "
we like to celebrate each other 's successes in life .
i was going to talk about information ecology .
but i was thinking that since i plan to make a lifelong habit of coming back to ted , that maybe i could talk about that another time . chris anderson : it 's a deal !
al gore : i want to focus on what many of you have said you would like me to elaborate on .
what can you do about the climate crisis ? i want to start with -- i 'm going to show some new images , and i 'm going to recapitulate just four or five .
now , the slide show . i update the slide show every time i give it .
i add new images because i learn more about it every time i give it .
it 's like beachcombing , you know ? every time the tide comes in and out , you find some more shells .
just in the last two days , we got the new temperature records in january .
this is just for the united states of america . historical average for january is 31 degrees . last month was 39.5 degrees .
now , i know that you wanted some more bad news about the environment -- i 'm kidding -- but these are the recapitulation slides , and then i 'm going to go into new material about what you can do .
but i wanted to elaborate on a couple of these .
first of all , this is where we 're projected to go with the u.s. contribution to global warming , under business as usual . efficiency in end-use electricity and end-use of all energy is the low-hanging fruit . efficiency and conservation : it 's not a cost ; it 's a profit . the sign is wrong .
it 's not negative ; it 's positive . these are investments that pay for themselves .
but they are also very effective in deflecting our path .
cars and trucks -- i talked about that in the slideshow , but i want you to put it in perspective .
i suggest the house .
the reality , now here is something important .
what 's important about this is these shapes are duals of each other .
and you can see how the icosahedron withdraws into the dodecahedron and then they just merge into each other .
so , the whole concept of branes in the universe , if the universe is shaped like a dodecahedron this is a very good map of what could possibly be .
and that is , of course , what we are here to talk about .
what a coincidence !
october 9th , in france , jean-pierre luminet said that the universe is probably shaped like a dodecahedron , based on information that they got from this probe .
this would be a normal wave pattern .
but what they 're seeing , way out there in the far reaches of the microwave background , is this kind of odd undulation .
it doesn 't plug in to what they suspected a flat universe would be .
so , you can kind of get an idea from this extrapolating that back under this huge picture , so we get this idea of what the primal universe looked like .
and judging from this , it looks a little like a cheeseburger .
so , i 'm thinking the universe is either a dodecahedron or a cheeseburger .
and for me , that 's a win-win .
everybody goes , i 'm happy .
better really hurry up .
i just threw this in because as important as all of our intellectual abilities are , without heart and without love it 's just -- it 's all meaningless . and that , to me , is really beautiful .
except for that creepy guy in the background .
getting back to the point of my particular presentation , kepler , one of my great heroes , who realized that these five solids , which i spoke of earlier , were related somehow to the planets , but he couldn 't prove it . it freaked him out .
but it did lead to newton discovering gravity .
so , maps of things leading to organized understandings of the universe in which we emerge . now this is isaac from a vietnamese stamp .
i am not suggesting at all that my vietnamese brothers and sisters could maybe use a little art class here and there . but ...
that 's not a good picture .
not a good picture . now , my friends in the island of nevis are a little better . look at that ! that 's isaac newton .
that guy is rockin ' .
what a handsome cat .
once again , nicaragua let me down .
and copernicus looks like johnny carson , which is really weird .
i don 't get that at all .
once again , these guys rock it out .
isaac is kickin ' ass . man , he looks like a rock star .
this is freaky is a major way .
this is sierra leone .
they got little babies in there , floating in there .
man . i don 't really need to comment on this . but i didn 't know that isaac newton was in the moody blues . did you ?
when did this happen ?
it 's a different kind of course . and they 've got five apples ?
i mean these guys are extrapolating in realms that are not necessarily valid .
although five is a good number , of course .
ecuador , my friend kepler , as you can see , they call him juan .
juan ? no ! johannes , not juan .
it wasn 't carlos chaplain . it 's wrong .
rene descartes , of course . once again these grenada people , this is like way too sick for anybody 's imagination .
he 's all murky . there is little kids leaning on his leg , little ghosts flying around . we gotta clean this stuff up fast , ladies and gentlemen .
this is , of course , the cartesian coordinates .
once again , that 's sierra leone .
this is again , indicating how numbers relate to space relate to form , maps of the universe .
because that 's why we 're here , really , i think to figure stuff out and to love each other .
descartes .
before the horse .
now , monaco took descartes , and just flipped him around .
now , monaco is problematic for me , and i 'll show you why .
here is a map . all they have is a casino on it .
and why franklin delano roosevelt is on their map i don 't even want to hazard a guess .
but i 'd say he 'd been to hellespointica depressio recently .
this is the flag of monaco . ladies and gentlemen , the flag of indonesia . please examine .
not sure how this came to be , but it 's not right .
in monaco , " no , what are you talking about ?
they are so different .
look , ours is more red , it 's longer .
they stole our flag ! they stole our flag ! " bode 's law wasn 't even his law . it was a guy named titus .
and the reason i just bring this up because it is a law that doesn 't really work .
that 's jude law and some of his films recently didn 't work .
just a correlation that indicates how things are misinterpreted .
and i wonder if the photographer said , " okay , jude , could you touch your tooth ? that 's good . " just a tip , if you 're being photographed for press pictures , don 't touch your teeth .
prime numbers , gauss , one of my favorites .
golden section , i 've been obsessed with this thing since before i was born .
i know that scares a lot of you , but that was my purpose entirely .
there we can see fibonacci numbers related to the golden section , because fibonacci and golden section relate to the unfolding of the measured meter of matter , as i refer to it .
if fibonacci had been on paxil , that would be the fibonacci series .
" ten milligram , 20 milligram . "
" leonardo , dinner 's ready , put down those books and take your pills . "
" yes , mama . "
alright where is this going ? that 's a good question .
here is the premise that i began 27 years ago .
if numbers can express the laws of this incredible universe that we live , i reason , through some sort of reverse engineering , we could extrapolate from them some basic structural element of this universe .
and that 's what i did . twenty-seven years ago i started working on this .
and i tried to build a particle accelerator .
and that didn 't work out well .
so , then i thought a calculator is a metaphor .
i can just divide numbers , that 's like atom smashing .
that 's what i did . that 's how i found moleeds .
moleeds are what i believe the thing that will allow string theory to be proved .
they are the nodes on the string , patterns and relationships , 27 , 37 .
that was the first chart i came up with .
you can see , even if you don 't go for the numbers , the beauty of the symmetry .
the numbers from one to 36 , divided into six groups .
symmetry , pairs .
every top adds up to 37 .
bottom , all 74 .
there is so many intricate relationships that i 'm not going to go there now , because you would say , " hey , go back to the fluctus part . "
circle of fifths , acoustic harmony , geometric symmetry .
i knew those two were related .
once again , the cartesian kind of cross-over .
so , i said if i 'm going to put a circle , see what kind of patterns i get , boom , the red system .
look at that . you can 't just make this stuff up , ladies and gentlemen .
you can 't just go around going , " oh , i 'm going to put some triangles in a circle and they 're going to be symmetrical . and they 're all going to add up , and it 's going to be , oh yeah , i figured that out . "
this is beyond anything anybody could just make up .
there is the orange system .
and you 'll see over here , these are multiples of the number 27 .
and they recapitulate that shape , even though that 's a circle of nine and that 's a circle of 36 . it 's nuts .
that 's the green system . it all folds in half on the green system , right between 18 and 19 .
the blue system . the violet . it 's all there .
look at that ! i mean you cannot make that stuff up .
that just doesn 't fall out of a tree , ladies and gentlemen .
twenty-seven years of my life !
and i 'm presenting it here at ted . why ?
because this is the place if aliens land , i hope they come here .
" we are going to destroy the earth . hmmm ... maybe not . "
in this last year i have found these subsequent systems which allow for the mathematic possibilities of the calabi-yau manifolds in a way that doesn 't necessitate these little hidden dimensions .
which works mathematically , but it just doesn 't seem god-like to me .
it just seems like it 's not sexy and elegant , it 's hidden .
i don 't want hidden , i want to see it .
i found other pairs all have symmetry , even though , unlike the master one , their symmetry is split .
unbelievable . this is like crazy .
am i the only one that sees this ?
you know , i didn 't just draw this in a day , by the way .
you know , try making some charts like this at home .
you gotta be accurate ! there 's measurement involved , increments .
these are maps , by the way .
not stamps , but one day .
okay , i 'm getting to the punch . golden ratio , it 's crazy .
and look at this , built within it is the golden ratio .
i start looking at that , and look at them again .
they start looking like planets .
i go to jpl .
i look at the orbits of the planets .
i find 18 examples of it in our solar system .
i never told anybody . this is the first thing . this could be history .
kepler was right .
eighteen and 19 , the middle of the moleeds , 0.618 is the golden section . multiply them together , 18.618 x 19.618 is 365.247 .
which is .005 different from the number of days in a year .
hey , you can 't make this up .
thank you very much .
thank you .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / guy _ philippe _ goldstein _ how _ cyberattacks _ threaten _ real _ world _ peace.html
more and more , nations are waging attacks with cyber weapons -- silent strikes on another country 's computer systems that leave behind no trace . at tedxparis , guy-philippe goldstein shows how cyberattacks can leap between the digital and physical worlds to prompt armed conflict -- and how we might avert this global security hazard .
computers , global issues , politics , security , technology , war
1250
guy-philippe goldstein : how cyberattacks threaten real-world peace
good afternoon .
if you have followed diplomatic news in the past weeks , you may have heard of a kind of crisis between china and the u.s. regarding cyberattacks against the american company google .
many things have been said about this . some people have called a cyberwar what may actually be just a spy operation -- and obviously , a quite mishandled one .
however , this episode reveals the growing anxiety in the western world regarding these emerging cyber weapons .
it so happens that these weapons are dangerous . they 're of a new nature : they could lead the world into a digital conflict that could turn into an armed struggle .
these virtual weapons can also destroy the physical world .
in 1982 , in the middle of the cold war in soviet siberia , a pipeline exploded with a burst of 3 kilotons , the equivalent of a fourth of the hiroshima bomb .
now we know today -- this was revealed by thomas reed , ronald reagan 's former u.s. air force secretary -- this explosion was actually the result of a cia sabotage operation , in which they had managed to infiltrate the it management systems of that pipeline .
more recently , the u.s. government revealed that in september 2008 , more than 3 million people in the state of espirito santo in brazil were plunged into darkness , victims of a blackmail operation from cyber pirates .
even more worrying for the americans , in december 2008 the holiest of holies , the it systems of centcom , the central command managing the wars in iraq and afghanistan , may have been infiltrated by hackers who used these : plain but infected usb keys . and with these keys , they may have been able to get inside centcom 's systems , to see and hear everything , and maybe even infect some of them .
as a result , the americans take the threat very seriously . i 'll quote general james cartwright , vice chairman of the joint chiefs of staff , who says in a report to congress that cyberattacks could be as powerful as weapons of mass destruction .
moreover , the americans have decided to spend over 30 billion dollars in the next five years to build up their cyberwar capabilities .
and across the world today , we see a sort of cyber arms race , with cyberwar units built up by countries like north korea or even iran .
yet , what you 'll never hear from spokespeople from the pentagon or the french department of defence is that the question isn 't really who 's the enemy , but actually the very nature of cyber weapons .
and to understand why , we must look at how , through the ages , military technologies have maintained or destroyed world peace .
for example , if we 'd had tedxparis 350 years ago , we would have talked about the military innovation of the day -- the massive vauban-style fortifications -- and we could have predicted a period of stability in the world or in europe. which was indeed the case in europe between 1650 and 1750 .
similarly , if we 'd had this talk 30 or 40 years ago , we would have seen how the rise of nuclear weapons , and the threat of mutually assured destruction they imply , prevents a direct fight between the two superpowers .
however , if we 'd had this talk 60 years ago , we would have seen how the emergence of new aircraft and tank technologies , which give the advantage to the attacker , make the blitzkrieg doctrine very credible and thus create the possibility of war in europe .
so military technologies can influence the course of the world , can make or break world peace -- and there lies the issue with cyber weapons .
the first issue : imagine a potential enemy announcing they 're building a cyberwar unit , but only for their country 's defense .
okay , but what distinguishes it from an offensive unit ?
it gets even more complicated when the doctrines of use become ambiguous .
just 3 years ago , both the u.s. and france were saying they were investing militarily in cyberspace , strictly to defend their it systems .
but today both countries say the best defense is to attack .
and so , they 're joining china , whose doctrine of use for 15 years has been both defensive and offensive .
the second issue : your country could be under cyberattack with entire regions plunged into total darkness , and you may not even know who 's attacking you .
cyber weapons have this peculiar feature : they can be used without leaving traces .
this gives a tremendous advantage to the attacker ,
because the defender doesn 't know who to fight back against .
and if the defender retaliates against the wrong adversary , they risk making one more enemy and ending up diplomatically isolated .
this issue isn 't just theoretical .
in may 2007 , estonia was the victim of cyberattacks , that damaged its communication and banking systems .
estonia accused russia .
but nato , though it defends estonia , reacted very prudently . why ?
because nato couldn 't be 100 % sure that the kremlin was indeed behind these attacks .
so to sum up , on the one hand , when a possible enemy announces they 're building a cyberwar unit , you don 't know whether it 's for attack or defense . on the other hand , we know that these weapons give an advantage to attacking .
in a major article published in 1978 , professor robert jervis of columbia university in new york described a model to understand how conflicts could arise .
in this context , when you don 't know if the potential enemy is preparing for defense or attack , and if the weapons give an advantage to attacking , then this environment is most likely to spark a conflict .
this is the environment that 's being created by cyber weapons today , and historically it was the environment in europe at the onset of world war i .
so cyber weapons are dangerous by nature , but in addition , they 're emerging in a much more unstable environment .
if you remember the cold war , it was a very hard game , but a stable one played only by two players , which allowed for some coordination between the two superpowers .
today we 're moving to a multipolar world in which coordination is much more complicated , as we have seen at copenhagen . and this coordination may become even trickier with the introduction of cyber weapons .
why ? because no nation knows for sure whether its neighbor is about to attack .
so nations may live under the threat of what nobel prize winner thomas schelling called the " reciprocal fear of surprise attack , " as i don 't know if my neighbor is about to attack me or not -- i may never know -- so i might take the upper hand and attack first .
just last week , in a new york times article dated january 26 , 2010 , it was revealed for the first time that officials at the national security agency were considering the possibility of preemptive attacks in cases where the u.s. was about to be cyberattacked .
and these preemptive attacks might not just remain in cyberspace .
in may 2009 , general kevin chilton , commander of the u.s. nuclear forces , stated that in the event of cyberattacks against the u.s. , all options would be on the table .
cyber weapons do not replace conventional or nuclear weapons --
they just add a new layer to the existing system of terror .
but in doing so , they also add their own risk of triggering a conflict -- as we 've just seen , a very important risk -- and a risk we may have to confront with a collective security solution which includes all of us : european allies , nato members , our american friends and allies , our other western allies , and maybe , by forcing their hand a little , our russian and chinese partners .
the information technologies joel de rosnay was talking about , which were historically born from military research , are today on the verge of developing an offensive capability of destruction , which could tomorrow , if we 're not careful , completely destroy world peace .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jim _ toomey _ learning _ from _ sherman _ the _ shark.html
cartoonist jim toomey created the comic strip sherman 's lagoon , a wry look at underwater life starring sherman the talking shark . as he sketches some of his favorite sea creatures live onstage , toomey shares his love of the ocean and the stories it can tell .
animals , arts , entertainment , humor , oceans , science
939
jim toomey : learning from sherman the shark
cartoons are basically short stories .
i tried to find one that didn 't have a whole lot of words .
not all of them have happy endings .
so how did i get started cartooning ?
i doodled a lot as a kid , and if you spend enough time doodling , sooner or later , something happens : all your career options run out .
so you have to make a living cartooning .
actually , i fell in love with the ocean when i was a little boy , when i was about eight or nine .
this is some of my early work .
eventually , my mom took the red crayon away , so it was [ unclear ] .
but i 'd like to relay to you a childhood experience of mine that really made me see the ocean differently , and it 's become the foundation of my work because , i feel like , if in a day , i can see the ocean differently , then i can evoke that same kind of change in others , especially kids .
before that day , this is how i saw the ocean .
it 's just a big blue surface .
and this is how we 've seen the ocean since the beginning of time .
it 's a mystery .
there 's been a lot of folklore developed around the ocean , mostly negative .
and that prompted people to make maps like this , with all kinds of wonderful detail on the land , but when you get to the waters edge , the ocean looks like one giant puddle of blue paint .
and this is the way i saw the ocean at school -- as if to say , " all geography and science lessons stop at water 's edge .
this part 's not going to be on the test . " but that day i flew low over the islands -- it was a family trip to the caribbean , and i flew in a small plane low over the islands .
this is what i saw . i saw hills and valleys .
i saw forests and meadows .
i saw grottoes and secret gardens and places i 'd love to hide as a kid , if i could only breathe underwater .
and best of all , i saw the animals .
i saw a manta ray that looked as big as the plane i was flying in .
and i flew over a lagoon with a shark in it , and that was the day that my comic strip about a shark was born .
so from that day on , i was an ordinary kid walking around on dry land , but my head was down there , underwater .
up until that day , these were the animals that were most common in my life .
these were the ones i 'd like to draw -- all variations of four legs and fur .
but when you got to the ocean , my imagination was no competition for nature .
every time i 'd come up with a crazy cartoon character on the drawing board , i 'd find a critter in the ocean that was even crazier .
and the differences in scale between this tiny sea dragon and this enormous humpback whale was like something out of a science-fiction movie .
whenever i talk to kids , i always like to tell them , the biggest animal that ever lived is still alive .
it 's not a dinosaur ; it 's a whale , animals as big as office buildings still swimming around out there in our ocean .
speaking of dinosaurs , sharks are basically the same fish they were 300 million years ago .
so if you ever fantasize about going back in time and seeing what a dinosaur looked like , that 's what a dinosaur looks like .
so you have living dinosaurs and space aliens , animals that evolved in zero gravity in harsh conditions .
it 's just incredible ; no hollywood designer could come up with something more interesting than that .
or this fangtooth . the particles in the water make it look like it 's floating in outer space .
could you image if we looked through the hubble telescope and we saw that ?
it would start a whole new space race .
but instead , we stick a camera in the deep ocean , and we see a fish , and it doesn 't capture our imagination as a society .
we say to ourselves , " maybe we can make fish sticks with it or something . "
so , what i 'd like to do now is try a little drawing .
so , i 'm going to try to draw this fangtooth here .
i love to draw the deep sea fish , because they are so ugly , but beautiful in their own way .
maybe we can give him a little bioluminescence here -- give him a headlight , maybe a brake light , turn signals .
but it 's easy to see why these animals make such great cartoon characters , their shapes and sizes .
so some of them actually seem to have powers like superheroes in a comic book .
for instance , take these sea turtles .
they kind of have a sixth sense like superman 's x-ray vision .
they can sense the magnetic fields of the earth .
and they can use that sense to navigate hundreds of miles of open ocean .
i kind of give my turtle hands just to make them an easier cartoon character to work with .
or take this sea cucumber .
it 's not an animal we draw cartoons of or draw at all .
he 's like an underwater spiderman .
he shoots out these sticky webs to entangle his enemy .
of course , sea cucumbers shoot them out their rears , which , in my opinion , makes them much more interesting a superhero .
he can 't spin a web anytime ; he 's got to pull his pants down first .
or the blowfish .
the blowfish is like the incredible hulk .
it can change its body into a big , intimidating fish in a matter of seconds .
i 'm going to draw this blowfish uninflated .
and then i 'm going to attempt onscreen animation here .
let 's see .
try and inflate it .
" you talkin ' to me ? " see , he can inflate himself when he wants to be intimidating .
or take this swordfish .
could you imagine being born with a tool for a nose ?
do you think he wakes up in the morning , looks in the mirror and says , " somebody 's getting stabbed today . "
or this lionfish for instance .
imagine trying to make friends covered with razor-sharp poisonous barbs .
it 's not something you want to put on your facebook page , right ?
my characters are -- my lead character 's a shark named sherman .
he 's a great white shark .
and i kind of broke the mold with sherman .
i didn 't want to go with this ruthless predator image .
he 's kind of just out there making a living .
he 's sort of a homer simpson with fins .
and then his sidekick is a sea turtle , as i mentioned before , named filmore .
he uses his wonderful skills at navigation to wander the oceans , looking for a mate .
and he does manage to find them , but great navigation skills , lousy pick-up lines .
he never seems to settle on any particular girl .
i have a hermit crab named hawthorne , who doesn 't get a lot of respect as a hermit crab , so he kind of wishes he were a great white shark .
and then i 'll introduce you to one more character , this guy , ernest , who is basically a juvenile delinquent in a fish body .
so with characters , you can make stories .
sometimes making a story is as easy as putting two characters in a room and seeing what happens .
so , imagine a great white shark and a giant squid in the same bathroom .
or , sometimes i take them to places that people have never heard of because they 're underwater .
for instance , i took them skiing in the mid-atlantic range , which is this range of mountains in the middle of the atlantic .
i 've taken them to the sea of japan , where they met giant jellyfish .
i 've taken them camping in the kelp forests of california .
this next one here , i did a story on the census of marine life .
and that was a lot of fun because , as most of you know , it 's a real project we 've heard about .
but it was a chance for me to introduce readers to a lot of crazy undersea characters .
so we start off the story with ernest , who volunteers as a census taker .
he goes down and he meets this famous anglerfish .
then he meets the yeti crab , the famous vampire squid -- elusive , hard to find -- and the dumbo octopus , which looks so much like a cartoon in real life that really didn 't have to change a thing when i drew it .
i did another story on marine debris .
i was speaking to a lot of my friends in the conservation business , and they -- i asked them , " so what 's one issue you would like everyone to know more about ? "
and they said -- this one friend of mine said , " i 've got one word for you : plastic . "
and i told him , " well , i need something a little sexier than that .
plastic just is not going to do it . "
we sort of worked things out .
he wanted me to use words like polyvinyl chloride , which doesn 't really work in voice balloons very well .
i couldn 't fit them in .
so what i did was i made an adventure strip .
basically , this bottle travels a long way .
what i 'm trying to tell readers is that plastic doesn 't really go away ; it just continues to wash downstream . and a lot of it ends up washing into the ocean , which is a great story if you attach a couple characters to it , especially if they can 't stand each other , like these two .
so , i sent them to boise , idaho , where they dropped a plastic bottle into the boise sewer system .
and it ended up in the boise river and then on to the columbia river and then to the mouth of the columbia and to the pacific ocean and then on to this place called the great pacific garbage patch -- which is this giant pacific gyre in the north pacific , where a lot of this plastic ends up floating around -- and then back onto the lagoon .
so that was basically a buddy story with a plastic bottle following along .
so a lot of people remember the plastic bottle anyway , but we really talked about marine debris and plastic in the course of that one .
the third storyline i did about a year and a half ago was probably my most difficult .
it was on shark finning , and i felt really strongly about this issue . and i felt like , since my main character was a shark , the comic strip was a perfect vehicle for telling the public about this .
now , finning is the act of taking a shark , cutting the valuable fins off and throwing the live animal back in the water .
it 's cruel , it 's wasteful .
there 's nothing funny or entertaining about it , but i really wanted to take this issue on .
i had to kill my main character , who is a shark .
we start with sherman in a chinese restaurant , who gets a fortune that he 's about to get caught by a trawler , which he does .
and then he dies .
he gets finned , and then he gets thrown overboard .
ostensibly , he 's dead now .
and so i killed a character that 's been in the newspaper for 15 years .
so i got a lot of reader feedback on that one .
meanwhile , the other characters are talking about shark fin soup .
i do three or four strips after that where we explore the finning issue and the shark fin soup issue .
sherman 's up in shark heaven .
this is what i love about comic strips , you know .
you really don 't have to worry about the audience suspending its sense of disbelief because , if you start with a talking shark , readers pretty much check their disbelief at the door .
you can kind of do anything .
it becomes a near-death experience for sherman .
meanwhile , ernest finds his fins on the internet .
there was a real website based in china that actually sold shark fins , so i kind of exposed that .
and he clicks the " buy now " button .
and voila , next-day air , they show up , and they surgically reattach them .
i ended that series with a kind of a mail-in petition that encouraged our national marine fishery service , to force other countries to have a stronger stance with shark management .
thanks .
i 'd like to end with a little metaphor here .
i 've been trying to think of a metaphor to represent mission blue , and this is what i came up with .
imagine you 're in an enormous room , and it 's as dark as a cave .
and you can have anything in that room , anything you want , but you can 't see anything .
you 've been given one tool , a hammer .
so you wander around in the darkness , and you bump into something , and it feels like it 's made of stone .
it 's big , it 's heavy . you can 't carry it away , so you bang it with your hammer , and you break off a piece .
and you take the piece out into the daylight .
and you see you have a beautiful piece of white alabaster .
so you say to yourself , " well , that 's worth something . "
so you go back into the room , and you break this thing to pieces , and you haul it away .
and you find other things , and you break that up , and you haul those away .
and you 're getting all kinds of cool stuff .
and you hear other people doing the same thing .
so you get this sense of urgency , like you need to find as much stuff as possible as soon as possible .
and then some yells , " stop ! "
and they turn up the lights .
and you realize where you are ; you 're in the louvre .
and you 've taken all this complexity and beauty , and you 've turned it into a cheap commodity .
and that 's what we 're doing with the ocean .
and part of what mission blue is about is yelling , " stop ! "
so that each of us -- explorer , scientist , cartoonist , singer , chef -- can turn up the lights in their own way .
and that 's what i hope my comic strip does in a small way .
that 's why i like what i do .
thanks for listening .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / arthur _ benjamin _ does _ mathemagic.html
in a lively show , mathemagician arthur benjamin races a team of calculators to figure out 3-digit squares , solves another massive mental equation and guesses a few birthdays . how does he do it ? he 'll tell you .
education , entertainment , magic , math , performance
199
arthur benjamin does " mathemagic "
well , good morning ladies and gentlemen .
my name is art benjamin , and i am a " mathemagician . "
what that means is , i combine my loves of math and magic to do something i call " mathemagics . "
but before i get started , i have a quick question for the audience .
by any chance , did anyone happen to bring with them this morning a calculator ?
seriously , if you have a calculator with you , raise your hand , raise your hand .
i -- was -- your hand go up ?
now bring it out , bring it out . anybody else ?
i see , i see one way in the back .
you sir , that 's three ,
and anybody on this side here ?
ok , you over there on the aisle . would the four of you with calculators please bring out your calculators , then join me up on stage .
and let 's give these volunteers a nice round of applause .
that 's right . now , since i haven 't had the chance to work with these calculators , i need to make sure that they are all working properly .
would somebody get us started by giving us a two-digit number please ?
how about a two-digit number ?
audience : 22 .
arthur benjamin : 22 . and another two-digit number , sir ?
audience : 47 .
ab : multiply 22 times 47 , make sure you get 1,034 , or the calculators are not working . do all of you get 1,034 ? 1,034 ?
woman : no .
ab : 594 . let 's give three of them a nice round of applause there .
would you like to try a more standard calculator , just in case ?
ok , great .
what i 'm going to try and do then -- i notice that took some of you a little bit of time to get your answer .
that 's ok . i 'll give you a shortcut for multiplying even faster on the calculator .
there is something called the square of a number , which most of you know is taking a number and multiplying it by itself .
for instance , five squared would be ?
audience : 25 .
ab : 25 . now , the way we can square on most calculators -- let me demonstrate with this one -- is by taking the number , such as five , hitting " times " and then " equals , " and on most calculators that will give you the square .
on some of these ancient rpn calculators , you 've got an " x squared " button on it , will allow you to do the calculation even faster .
what i 'm going to try and do now is to square , in my head , four two-digit numbers faster than they can do on their calculators , even using the shortcut method .
what i 'll use is the second row this time , and i 'll get four of you -- one , two , three , four -- to each yell out a two-digit number , and if you would square the first number , and if you would square the second , the third and the fourth , i will try and race you to the answer . ok ?
so quickly , a two-digit number please .
audience : 37 .
ab : 37 squared , ok .
audience : 23 .
ab : 23 squared , ok .
audience : 59 .
ab : 59 squared , ok , and finally ?
audience : 93 .
ab : 93 squared . would you call out your answers , please ?
woman : 1369 . ab : 1369 .
woman : 529 .
ab : 529 .
man : 3481 .
ab : 3481 .
man : 8649 .
ab : thank you very much .
let me try to take this one step further .
i 'm going to try to square some three-digit numbers this time .
i won 't even write these down -- i 'll just call them out as they 're called out to me .
anyone i point to , call out a three-digit number .
anyone on our panel , verify the answer .
just give some indication if it 's right .
a three-digit number , sir , yes ?
audience : 987 .
ab : 987 squared is 974,169 .
yes ? good .
another , another three-digit -- -- another three-digit number , sir ?
audience : 457 .
ab : 457 squared is 205,849 .
205,849 ?
yes ?
ok , another , another three-digit number , sir ?
audience : 321 .
ab : 321 is 103,041 . 103,041 .
yes ? one more three-digit number please .
audience : oh , 722 .
ab : 722 is 500 -- ooh , that 's a harder one .
is that 513,284 ?
woman : yes .
ab : yes ? oh , one more , one more three-digit number please .
audience : 162 .
162 squared is 26,244 .
thank you very much .
let me try to take this one step further .
i 'm going to try to square a four-digit number this time .
now you can all take your time on this ; i will not beat you to the answer on this one , but i will try to get the answer right .
to make this a little bit more random , let 's take the fourth row this time , let 's say , one , two , three , four .
if each of you would call out a single digit between zero and nine , that will be the four-digit number that i 'll square .
audience : nine .
ab : nine .
audience : seven . ab : seven .
audience : five . ab : five .
audience : eight . ab : eight .
9,758 , this will take me a little bit of time , so bear with me .
95,218,564 ?
woman : yes .
ab : thank you very much .
now , i would attempt to square a five-digit number -- and i can -- but unfortunately most calculators cannot .
eight-digit capacity -- don 't you hate that ?
so , since we 've reached the limits of our calculators -- what 's that ? does yours go -- woman : i don 't know .
ab : does yours go higher ?
oh -- yours does ?
man : i can probably do it .
ab : i 'll talk to you later .
in the meanwhile , let me conclude the first part of my show by doing something a little trickier .
let 's take the largest number on the board here , 8649 .
would you each enter that on your calculator ?
and instead of squaring it this time , i want you to take that number and multiply it by any three-digit number that you want , but don 't tell me what you 're multiplying by -- just multiply it by any random three-digit number .
so you should have as an answer either a six-digit or probably a seven-digit number .
how many digits do you have , six or seven ?
seven , and yours ? woman : seven .
ab : seven ? seven ?
and , uncertain .
man : yeah .
ab : seven . is there any possible way that i could know what seven digit numbers you have ? say " no . "
good . then i shall attempt the impossible -- or at least the improbable .
what i 'd like each of you to do is to call out for me any six of your seven digits , any six of them , in any order you 'd like .
one digit at a time , i shall try and determine the digit you 've left out .
so , starting with your seven-digit number , call out any six of them please .
woman : one , ok , 197042 .
ab : did you leave out the number 6 ?
woman : yes , ab : good , ok , that 's one .
you have a seven-digit number , call out any six of them please .
woman : 44875 .
ab : i think i only heard five numbers . i -- wait -- 44875 -- did you leave out the number 6 ?
woman : yes . ab : same as she did , ok . you 've got a seven-digit number -- call out any six of them loud and clear .
man : 079044 . ab : i think you left out the number 3 ?
that 's three . the odds of me getting all four of these right by random guessing would be one in 10,000 : 10 to the fourth power .
ok , any six of them .
really scramble them up this time , please .
man : 263972 .
ab : did you leave out the number 7 ?
and let 's give all four of these people a nice round of applause .
thank you very much .
for my next number -- while i mentally recharge my batteries , i have one more question for the audience .
by any chance , does anybody here happen to know the day of the week that they were born on ?
if you think you know your birth day , raise your hand .
let 's see , starting with -- let 's start with a gentleman first ,
ok sir , what year was it , first of all ? that 's why i start with a gentleman first .
what year ?
audience : 1953 .
ab : 1953 , and the month ?
audience : november . ab : november what ?
audience : 23rd .
ab : 23rd -- was that a monday ? audience : yes .
yes , good . somebody else ? who else would like -- see i don 't -- haven 't seen any women 's hands up .
ok , it 's -- how about you , what year ?
audience : 1949 . ab : 1949 , and the month ?
audience : october . ab : october what ?
audience : fifth .
ab : fifth -- was that a wednesday ?
yes , my -- i 'll go way to the back right now , how about you ?
yell it out , what year ? audience : 1959 .
ab : 1959 , ok -- and the month ?
audience : february .
ab : february what ? audience : sixth .
ab : sixth -- was that a friday ? audience : yes .
good , how about the person behind her ?
call -- call -- what year was it ?
audience : 1947 . ab : 1947 , and the month ?
audience : may . ab : may what ?
audience : seventh . ab : seventh -- would that be a wednesday ?
audience : yes .
ab : thank you very much .
anybody here who 'd like to know the day of the week they were born ?
we can do it that way .
of course , i could just make up an answer and you wouldn 't know , so i come prepared for that .
i brought with me a book of calendars .
it goes as far back into the past as 1800 , ' cause you never know .
i didn 't mean to look at you , sir -- you were just sitting there .
anyway , chris , you can help me out here , if you wouldn 't mind .
this is a book of calendars , and i 'll ask -- who was it that wanted to know their birth day ? you sir ? ok .
what year was it , first of all ?
audience : 1966 .
ab : ' 66 -- turn to the calendar with 1966 -- and what month ?
audience : april . ab : april what ?
audience : 17th . ab : 17th -- i believe that was a sunday .
can you confirm , chris ?
chris anderson : yes . ab : yeah , ok . i 'll tell you what , chris : as long as you have that book in front of you , do me a favor , turn to a year outside of the 1900s ,
either into the 1800s or way into the 2000s -- that 'll be a much greater challenge for me .
what year , chris , would you like ?
ca : 1824 .
ab : 1824 , ok .
and what month ? ca : june .
ab : june what ? ca : sixth .
ab : sixth -- was that a sunday ?
ca : it was . ab : and it was cloudy .
good , thank you very much .
but i 'd like to wrap things up now by alluding to something from earlier in the presentation .
there was a gentleman up here who had a 10-digit calculator .
where is he , would you stand up , 10-digit guy ?
ok , well stand up for me just for a second , so i can see where you are .
ok , oh , ok -- you have a 10-digit calculator , sir , as well ?
ok , what i 'm going to try and do , is to square in my head a five-digit number requiring a 10-digit calculator .
but to make my job more interesting for you , as well as for me , i 'm going to do this problem thinking out loud .
so you can actually , honestly hear what 's going on in my mind while i do a calculation of this size .
now , i have to apologize to our magician friend lennart green .
i know as a magician we 're not supposed to reveal our secrets , but i 'm not too afraid that people are going to start doing my show next week , so -- i think we 're ok .
so , let 's see , let 's take a -- let 's take a different row of people , starting with you .
i 'll get five digits : one , two , three , four -- oh , i did this row already . let 's do the row before you , starting with you sir : one , two , three , four , five .
call out a single digit -- that will be the five-digit number that i will try to square . go ahead .
audience : five . ab : five .
audience : seven . ab : seven .
audience : six . ab : six .
audience : eight . ab : eight .
audience : three . ab : three .
57,683 squared . yuck .
let me explain to you how i 'm going to attempt this problem .
i 'm going to break the problem down into three parts .
i 'll do 57,000 squared , plus 683 squared , plus 57,000 times 683 times two .
add all those numbers together , and with any luck , arrive at the answer .
now , let me recap .
thank you .
while i explain something else -- -- i know , that you can use , right ?
while i do these calculation [ s ] , you might hear certain words , as opposed to numbers , creep into the calculation .
let me explain what that is .
this is a phonetic code , a mnemonic device that i use , that allows me to convert numbers into words .
i store them as words , and later on retrieve them as numbers .
i know it sounds complicated ; it 's not -- i just don 't want you to think you 're seeing something out of " rain man " here .
there 's definitely a method to my madness -- definitely , definitely . sorry .
if you want to talk to me about adhd afterwards , you can talk to me then . all right -- by the way , one last instruction , for my judges with the calculators -- ok , you know who you are -- there is at least a 50 percent chance that i will make a mistake here .
if i do , don 't tell me what the mistake is ;
just say , " you 're close , " or something like that , and i 'll try and figure out the answer -- which could be pretty entertaining in itself .
if , however , i am right , whatever you do , don 't keep it to yourself , ok ?
make sure everybody knows that i got the answer right , because this is my big finish , ok .
so , without any more stalling , here we go .
i 'll start the problem in the middle , with 57 times 683 .
now , 57 times 68 is 3,400 , plus 476 is 3876 , that 's 38,760 plus 171 , 38,760 plus 171 is 38,931 .
38,931 ; double that to get 77,862 .
77,862 becomes cookie fission , cookie fission is 77,822 .
that seems right , i 'll go on . cookie fission , ok .
next , i do 57 squared , which is 3,249 , so i can say , three billion . take the 249 , add that to cookie , 249 , oops , but i see a carry coming -- 249 -- add that to cookie , 250 plus 77 , is 327 million -- fission , fission , ok , finally , we do 683 squared , that 's 700 times 666 , plus 17 squared is 466,489 , rev up if i need it , rev up , take the 466 , add that to fission , to get , oh gee -- 328,489 .
audience : yeah !
ab : good .
thank you very much .
i hope you enjoyed mathemagics . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / clifford _ stoll _ on _ everything.html
clifford stoll captivates his audience with a wildly energetic sprinkling of anecdotes , observations , asides -- and even a science experiment . after all , by his own definition , he 's a scientist : " once i do something , i want to do something else . "
culture , education , science , technology , web
237
clifford stoll on ... everything
i 'm delighted to be here .
i 'm honored by the invitation , and thanks .
i would love to talk about stuff that i 'm interested in , but unfortunately , i suspect that what i 'm interested in won 't interest many other people .
first off , my badge says i 'm an astronomer .
i would love to talk about my astronomy , but i suspect that the number of people who are interested in radiative transfer in non-gray atmospheres and polarization of light in jupiter 's upper atmosphere are the number of people who 'd fit in a bus shelter .
so i 'm not going to talk about that .
it would be just as much fun to talk about some stuff that happened in 1986 and 1987 , when a computer hacker is breaking into our systems over at lawrence berkeley labs .
and i caught the guys , and they turned out to be working for what was then the soviet kgb , and stealing information and selling it .
and i 'd love to talk about that -- and it 'd be fun -- but , 20 years later ...
i find computer security , frankly , to be kind of boring .
it 's tedious .
i 'm -- the first time you do something , it 's science .
the second time , it 's engineering .
a third time , it 's just being a technician .
i 'm a scientist . once i do something , i do something else .
so , i 'm not going to talk about that .
nor am i going to talk about what i think are obvious statements from my first book , " silicon snake oil , " or my second book , nor am i going to talk about why i believe computers don 't belong in schools .
i feel that there 's a massive and bizarre idea going around that we have to bring more computers into schools .
my idea is : no ! no !
get them out of schools , and keep them out of schools .
and i 'd love to talk about this , but i think the argument is so obvious to anyone who 's hung around a fourth grade classroom that it doesn 't need much talking about -- but i guess i may be very wrong about that , and everything else that i 've said .
so don 't go back and read my dissertation .
it probably has lies in it as well .
having said that , i outlined my talk about five minutes ago .
and if you look at it over here , the main thing i wrote on my thumb was the future .
i 'm supposed to talk about the future , yes ?
oh , right . and my feeling is , asking me to talk about the future is bizarre , because i 've got gray hair , and so , it 's kind of silly for me to talk about the future .
in fact , i think that if you really want to know what the future 's going to be , if you really want to know about the future , don 't ask a technologist , a scientist , a physicist .
no ! don 't ask somebody who 's writing code .
no , if you want to know what society 's going to be like in 20 years , ask a kindergarten teacher .
they know .
in fact , don 't ask just any kindergarten teacher , ask an experienced one .
they 're the ones who know what society is going to be like in another generation .
i don 't . nor , i suspect , do many other people who are talking about what the future will bring .
certainly , all of us can imagine these cool new things that are going to be there .
but to me , things aren 't the future .
what i ask myself is , what 's society is going to be like , when the kids today are phenomenally good at text messaging and spend a huge amount of on-screen time , but have never gone bowling together ?
change is happening , and the change that is happening is not one that is in software .
but that 's not what i 'm going to talk about .
i 'd love to talk about it , it 'd be fun , but i want to talk about what i 'm doing now . what am i doing now ?
oh -- the other thing that i think i 'd like to talk about is right over here . right over here .
is that visible ? what i 'd like to talk about is one-sided things .
i would dearly love to talk about things that have one side .
because i love mobius loops . i not only love mobius loops , but i 'm one of the very few people , if not the only person in the world , that makes klein bottles .
right away , i hope that all of your eyes glaze over .
this is a klein bottle .
for those of you in the audience who know , you roll your eyes and say , yup , i know all about it .
it 's one sided . it 's a bottle whose inside is its outside .
it has zero volume . and it 's non-orientable .
it has wonderful properties .
if you take two mobius loops and sew their common edge together , you get one of these , and i make them out of glass .
and i 'd love to talk to you about this , but i don 't have much in the way of ... things to say because -- however , the " d " in ted of course stands for design .
just two weeks ago i made -- you know , i 've been making small , medium and big klein bottles for the trade .
but what i 've just made -- and i 'm delighted to show you , first time in public here .
this is a klein bottle wine bottle , which , although in four dimensions it shouldn 't be able to hold any fluid at all , it 's perfectly capable of doing so because our universe has only three spatial dimensions .
and because our universe is only three spatial dimensions , it can hold fluids .
so it 's highly -- that one 's the cool one .
that was a month of my life .
but although i would love to talk about topology with you , i 'm not going to .
instead , i 'm going to mention my mom , who passed away last summer .
had collected photographs of me , as mothers will do .
could somebody put this guy up ?
and i looked over her album and she had collected a picture of me , standing -- well , sitting -- in 1969 , in front of a bunch of dials .
and i looked at it , and said , oh my god , that was me , when i was working at the electronic music studio !
as a technician , repairing and maintaining the electronic music studio at suny buffalo . and wow !
way back machine . and i said to myself , oh yeah !
and it sent me back .
soon after that , i found in another picture that she had , a picture of me .
this guy over here of course is me .
this man is robert moog , the inventor of the moog synthesizer , who passed away this past august .
robert moog was a generous , kind person , extraordinarily competent engineer .
a musician who took time from his life to teach me , a sophomore , a freshman at suny buffalo .
he 'd come up from trumansburg to teach me not just about the moog synthesizer , but we 'd be sitting there -- i 'm studying physics at the time . this is 1969 , 70 , 71 .
we 're studying physics , i 'm studying physics , and he 's saying , " that 's a good thing to do .
don 't get caught up in electronic music if you 're doing physics . "
mentoring me . he 'd come up and spend hours and hours with me .
he wrote a letter of recommendation for me to get into graduate school .
in the background , my bicycle .
i realize that this picture was taken at a friend 's living room .
bob moog came by and hauled a whole pile of equipment to show greg flint and i things about this .
we sat around talking about fourier transforms ,
bessel functions , modulation transfer functions , stuff like this .
bob 's passing this past summer has been a loss to all of us .
anyone who 's a musician has been profoundly influenced by robert moog .
and i 'll just say what i 'm about to do . what i 'm about to do -- i hope you can recognize that there 's a distorted sine wave , almost a triangular wave upon this hewlett-packard oscilloscope .
oh , cool . i can get to this place over here , right ?
kids . kids is what i 'm going to talk about -- is that okay ?
it says kids over here , that 's what i 'd like to talk about .
i 've decided that , for me at least , i don 't have a big enough head .
so i think locally and i act locally .
i feel that the best way i can help out anything is to help out very , very locally .
so ph.d. this , and degree there , and the yadda yadda .
i was talking about this stuff to some schoolteachers about a year ago .
and one of them , several of them would come up to me and say , " well , how come you ain 't teaching ? "
and i said , " well , i 've taught graduate -- i 've had graduate students , i 've taught undergraduate classes . "
no , they said , " if you 're so into kids and all this stuff , how come you ain 't over here on the front lines ?
put your money where you mouth is . "
is true . is true . i teach eighth-grade science four days a week .
not just showing up every now and then .
no , no , no , no , no . i take attendance .
i take lunch hour .
this is not -- no , no , no , this is not claps .
i strongly suggest that this is a good thing for each of you to do .
not just show up to class every now and then .
teach a solid week . okay , i 'm teaching three-quarters time , but good enough .
one of the things that i 've done for my science students is to tell them , " look , i 'm going to teach you college-level physics .
no calculus , i 'll cut out that .
you won 't need to know trig .
but you will need to know eighth-grade algebra , and we 're going to do serious experiments .
none of this open-to-chapter-seven-and-do-all-the-odd-problem-sets .
we 're going to be doing genuine physics . "
and that 's one of the things i thought i 'd do right now .
oh , before i even turn that on , one of the things that we did about three weeks ago in my class -- this is through the lens , and one of the things we used a lens for was to measure the speed of light .
my students in el cerrito -- with my help , of course , and with the help of a very beat up oscilloscope -- measured the speed of light .
we were off by 25 percent . how many eighth graders do you know of who have measured the speed of light ?
in addition to that , we 've measured the speed of sound .
i 'd love to measure the speed of light here .
i was all set to do it and i was thinking , " aw man , "
i was just going to impose upon the powers that be , and measure the speed of light .
and i 'm all set to do it . i 'm all set to do it , but then it turns out that to set up here , you have like 10 minutes to set up !
and there 's no time to do it .
so , next time , maybe , i 'll measure the speed of light !
but meanwhile , let 's measure the speed of sound !
well , the obvious way to measure the speed of sound is to bounce sound off something and look at the echo .
but , probably -- one of my students , ariel [ unclear ] , said , " could we measure the speed of light using the wave equation ? "
and all of you know the wave equation is the frequency times the wavelength of any wave ...
is a constant . when the frequency goes up , the wavelength comes down . wavelength goes up , frequency goes down . so , if we have a wave here -- over here , that 's what 's interesting -- as the pitch goes up , things get closer , pitch goes down , things stretch out .
right ? this is simple physics .
all of you know this from eighth grade , remember ?
what they didn 't tell you in physics -- in eighth-grade physics -- but they should have , and i wish they had , was that if you multiply the frequency times the wavelength of sound or light , you get a constant .
and that constant is the speed of sound .
so , in order to measure the speed of sound , all i 've got to do is know its frequency . well , that 's easy .
i 've got a frequency counter right here .
set it up to around a , above a , above a. there 's an a , more or less .
now , so i know the frequency .
it 's 1.76 kilohertz . i measure its wavelength .
all i need now is to flip on another beam , and the bottom beam is me talking , right ?
so anytime i talk , you 'd see it on the screen .
i 'll put it over here , and as i move this away from the source , you 'll notice the spiral .
the slinky moves . we 're going through different nodes of the wave , coming out this way .
those of you who are physicists , i hear you rolling your eyes , but bear with me .
to measure the wavelength , all i need to do is measure the distance from here -- one full wave -- over to here .
from here to here is the wavelength of sound .
so , i 'll put a measuring tape here , measuring tape here , move it back over to here .
i 've moved the microphone 20 centimeters .
0.2 meters from here , back to here , 20 centimeters .
ok , let 's go back to mr. elmo .
and we 'll say the frequency is 1.76 kilohertz , or 1760 .
the wavelength was 0.2 meters .
let 's figure out what this is .
1.76 times 0.2 over here is 352 meters per second .
if you look it up in the book , it 's really 343 .
but , here with kludgy material , and lousy drink -- we 've been able to measure the speed of sound to -- not bad . pretty good .
all of which comes to what i wanted to say .
go back to this picture of me a million years ago .
it was 1971 , the vietnam war was going on , and i 'm like , " oh my god ! "
i 'm studying physics : landau , lipschitz , resnick and halliday .
i 'm going home for a midterm . a riot 's going on on campus .
there 's a riot ! hey , elmo 's done : off .
there 's a riot going on on campus , and the police are chasing me , right ?
i 'm walking across campus . cop comes and looks at me and says , " you ! you 're a student . "
pulls out a gun . goes boom !
and a tear gas canister the size of a pepsi can goes by my head . whoosh !
i get a breath of tear gas and i can 't breathe .
this cop comes after me with a rifle .
he wants to clunk me over the head !
i 'm saying , " i got to clear out of here ! "
i go running across campus quick as i can . i duck into hayes hall .
it 's one of these bell-tower buildings .
the cop 's chasing me .
chasing me up the first floor , second floor , third floor .
chases me into this room .
the entranceway to the bell tower .
i slam the door behind me , climb up , go past this place where i see a pendulum ticking .
and i 'm thinking , " oh yeah , the square root of the length is proportional to its period . "
i keep climbing up , go back .
i go to a place where a dowel splits off .
there 's a clock , clock , clock , clock .
the time 's going backwards because i 'm inside of it .
i 'm thinking of lorenz contractions and einsteinian relativity .
i climb up , and there 's this place , way in the back , that you climb up this wooden ladder .
i pop up the top , and there 's a cupola .
a dome , one of these ten-foot domes .
i 'm looking out and i 'm seeing the cops bashing students ' heads , shooting tear gas , and watching students throwing bricks .
and i 'm asking , " what am i doing here ? why am i here ? "
then i remember what my english teacher in high school said . namely , that when they cast bells , they write inscriptions on them .
so , i wipe the pigeon manure off one of the bells , and i look at it .
i 'm asking myself , " why am i here ? "
so , at this time , i 'd like to tell you the words inscribed upon the hayes hall tower bells : " all truth is one .
in this light , may science and religion endeavor here for the steady evolution of mankind , from darkness to light , from narrowness to broad-mindedness , from prejudice to tolerance .
it is the voice of life , which calls us to come and learn . "
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / graham _ hill _ less _ stuff _ more _ happiness.html
writer and designer graham hill asks : can having less stuff , in less room , lead to more happiness ? he makes the case for taking up less space , and lays out three rules for editing your life .
culture , design , happiness , media , shopping
1238
graham hill : less stuff , more happiness
what 's in the box ?
whatever it is must be pretty important , because i 've traveled with it , moved it , from apartment to apartment to apartment .
sound familiar ?
did you know that we americans have about three times the amount of space we did 50 years ago ?
three times .
so you 'd think , with all this extra space , we 'd have plenty of room for all our stuff .
nope .
there 's a new industry in town , a 22 billion-dollar , 2.2 billion sq. ft. industry : that of personal storage .
so we 've got triple the space , but we 've become such good shoppers that we need even more space .
so where does this lead ?
lots of credit card debt , huge environmental footprints , and perhaps not coincidentally , our happiness levels flat-lined over the same 50 years .
well i 'm here to suggest there 's a better way , that less might actually equal more .
i bet most of us have experienced at some point the joys of less : college -- in your dorm , traveling -- in a hotel room , camping -- rig up basically nothing , maybe a boat .
whatever it was for you , i bet that , among other things , this gave you a little more freedom , a little more time .
so i 'm going to suggest that less stuff and less space are going to equal a smaller footprint .
it 's actually a great way to save you some money .
and it 's going to give you a little more ease in your life .
so i started a project called life edited at lifeedited.org to further this conversation and to find some great solutions in this area .
first up : crowd-sourcing my 420 sq. ft. apartment in manhattan with partners mutopo and jovoto.com .
i wanted it all -- home office , sit down dinner for 10 , room for guests , and all my kite surfing gear .
with over 300 entries from around the world , i got it , my own little jewel box .
by buying a space that was 420 sq. ft. instead of 600 , immediately i 'm saving 200 grand .
smaller space is going to make for smaller utilities -- save some more money there , but also a smaller footprint .
and because it 's really designed around an edited set of possessions -- my favorite stuff -- and really designed for me , i 'm really excited to be there .
so how can you live little ?
three main approaches .
first of all , you have to edit ruthlessly .
we 've got to clear the arteries of our lives .
and that shirt that i hadn 't worn in years ?
it 's time for me to let it go .
we 've got to cut the extraneous out of our lives , and we 've got to learn to stem the inflow .
we need to think before we buy .
ask ourselves , " is that really going to make me happier ? truly ? " by all means , we should buy and own some great stuff .
but we want stuff that we 're going to love for years , not just stuff .
secondly , our new mantra : small is sexy .
we want space efficiency .
we want things that are designed for how they 're used the vast majority of the time , not that rare event .
why have a six burner stove when you rarely use three ?
so we want things that nest , we want things that stack , and we want it digitized .
you can take paperwork , books , movies , and you can make it disappear -- it 's magic .
finally , we want multifunctional spaces and housewares -- a sink combined with a toilet , a dining table becomes a bed -- same space , a little side table stretches out to seat 10 .
in the winning life edited scheme in a render here , we combine a moving wall with transformer furniture to get a lot out of the space .
look at the coffee table -- it grows in height and width to seat 10 .
my office folds away ,
easily hidden .
my bed just pops out of the wall with two fingers .
guests ? move the moving wall , have some fold-down guest beds .
and of course , my own movie theater .
so i 'm not saying that we all need to live in 420 sq. ft .
but consider the benefits of an edited life .
go from 3,000 to 2,000 , from 1,500 to 1,000 .
most of us , maybe all of us , are here pretty happily for a bunch of days with a couple of bags , maybe a small space , a hotel room .
so when you go home and you walk through your front door , take a second and ask yourselves , " could i do with a little life editing ?
would that give me a little more freedom ?
maybe a little more time ? " what 's in the box ?
it doesn 't really matter .
i know i don 't need it .
what 's in yours ?
maybe , just maybe , less might equal more .
so let 's make room for the good stuff .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / stuart _ brown _ says _ play _ is _ more _ than _ fun _ it _ s _ vital.html
a pioneer in research on play , dr. stuart brown says humor , games , roughhousing , flirtation and fantasy are more than just fun . plenty of play in childhood makes for happy , smart adults -- and keeping it up can make us smarter at any age .
brain , children , education , entertainment , gaming , happiness , health , psychology , science
483
stuart brown says play is more than fun
so , here we go : a flyby of play . it 's got to be serious if the new york times puts a cover story of their february 17th sunday magazine about play .
at the bottom of this , it says , " it 's deeper than gender .
seriously , but dangerously fun .
and a sandbox for new ideas about evolution . "
not bad , except if you look at that cover , what 's missing ?
you see any adults ?
well , lets go back to the 15th century . this is a courtyard in europe , and a mixture of 124 different kinds of play .
all ages , solo play , body play , games , taunting .
and there it is . and i think this is a typical picture of what it was like in a courtyard then .
i think we may have lost something in our culture .
so i 'm gonna take you through what i think is a remarkable sequence .
north of churchill , manitoba , in october and november , there 's no ice on hudson bay .
and this polar bear that you see , this 1200-pound male , he 's wild and fairly hungry .
and norbert rosing , a german photographer , is there on scene , making a series of photos of these huskies , who are tethered .
and from out of stage left comes this wild , male polar bear , with a predatory gaze .
any of you who 've been to africa or had a junkyard dog come after you , there is a fixed kind of predatory gaze that you know you 're in trouble .
but on the other side of that predatory gaze is a female husky in a play bow , wagging her tail .
and something very unusual happens .
that fixed behavior -- which is rigid and stereotyped and ends up with a meal -- changes .
and this polar bear stands over the husky ,
no claws extended , no fangs taking a look .
and they begin an incredible ballet .
a play ballet .
this is in nature : it overrides a carnivorous nature and what otherwise would have been a short fight to the death .
and if you 'll begin to look closely at the husky that 's bearing her throat to the polar bear , and look a little more closely , they 're in an altered state .
they 're in a state of play .
and it 's that state that allows these two creatures to explore the possible .
they are beginning to do something that neither would have done without the play signals .
and it is a marvelous example of how a differential in power can be overridden by a process of nature that 's within all of us .
now how did i get involved in this ?
john mentioned that i 've done some work with murderers , and i have .
the texas tower murderer opened my eyes , in retrospect , when we studied his tragic mass murder , to the importance of play , in that that individual , by deep study , was found to have severe play deprivation .
charles whitman was his name .
and our committee , which consisted of a lot of hard scientists , did feel at the end of that study that the absence of play and a progressive suppression of developmentally normal play led him to be more vulnerable to the tragedy that he perpetrated .
and that finding has stood the test of time -- unfortunately even into more recent times , at virginia tech .
and other studies of populations at risk sensitized me to the importance of play , but i didn 't really understand what it was .
and it was many years in taking play histories of individuals before i really began to recognize that i didn 't really have a full understanding of it .
and i don 't think any of us has a full understanding of it , by any means .
but there are ways of looking at it that i think can give you -- give us all a taxonomy , a way of thinking about it .
and this image is , for humans , the beginning point of play .
when that mother and infant lock eyes , and the infant 's old enough to have a social smile , what happens -- spontaneously -- is the eruption of joy on the part of the mother .
and she begins to babble and coo and smile , and so does the baby .
if we 've got them wired up with an electroencephalogram , the right brain of each of them becomes attuned , so that the joyful emergence of this earliest of play scenes and the physiology of that is something we 're beginning to get a handle on .
and i 'd like you to think that every bit of more complex play builds on this base for us humans .
and so now i 'm going to take you through sort of a way of looking at play , but it 's never just singularly one thing .
we 're going to look at body play , which is a spontaneous desire to get ourselves out of gravity .
this is a mountain goat .
if you 're having a bad day , try this : jump up and down , wiggle around -- you 're going to feel better .
and you may feel like this character , who is also just doing it for its own sake .
it doesn 't have a particular purpose , and that 's what 's great about play .
if its purpose is more important than the act of doing it , it 's probably not play .
and there 's a whole other type of play , which is object play .
and this japanese macaque has made a snowball , and he or she 's going to roll down a hill .
and -- they don 't throw it at each other , but this is a fundamental part of being playful .
the human hand , in manipulation of objects , is the hand in search of a brain ;
the brain is in search of a hand ; and play is the medium by which those two are linked in the best way .
jpl we heard this morning -- jpl is an incredible place .
they have located two consultants , frank wilson and nate johnson ,
who are -- frank wilson is a neurologist , nate johnson is a mechanic .
he taught mechanics in a high school in long beach , and found that his students were no longer able to solve problems .
and he tried to figure out why . and he came to the conclusion , quite on his own , that the students who could no longer solve problems , such as fixing cars , hadn 't worked with their hands .
frank wilson had written a book called " the hand . "
they got together -- jpl hired them .
now jpl , nasa and boeing , before they will hire a research and development problem solver -- even if they 're summa cum laude from harvard or cal tech -- if they haven 't fixed cars , haven 't done stuff with their hands early in life , played with their hands , they can 't problem-solve as well .
so play is practical , and it 's very important .
now one of the things about play is that it is born by curiosity and exploration .
but it has to be safe exploration .
this happens to be ok -- he 's an anatomically interested little boy and that 's his mom . other situations wouldn 't be quite so good .
but curiosity , exploration , are part of the play scene .
if you want to belong , you need social play .
and social play is part of what we 're about here today , and is a byproduct of the play scene .
rough and tumble play .
these lionesses , seen from a distance , looked like they were fighting .
but if you look closely , they 're kind of like the polar bear and husky : no claws , flat fur , soft eyes , open mouth with no fangs , balletic movements , curvilinear movements -- all specific to play .
and rough-and-tumble play is a great learning medium for all of us .
preschool kids , for example , should be allowed to dive , hit , whistle , scream , be chaotic , and develop through that a lot of emotional regulation and a lot of the other social byproducts -- cognitive , emotional and physical -- that come as a part of rough and tumble play .
spectator play , ritual play -- we 're involved in some of that .
those of you who are from boston know that this was the moment -- rare -- where the red sox won the world series .
but take a look at the face and the body language of everybody in this fuzzy picture , and you can get a sense that they 're all at play .
imaginative play .
i love this picture because my daughter , who 's now almost 40 , is in this picture , but it reminds me of her storytelling and her imagination , her ability to spin yarns at this age -- preschool .
a really important part of being a player is imaginative solo play .
and i love this one , because it 's also what we 're about .
we all have an internal narrative that 's our own inner story .
the unit of intelligibility of most of our brains is the story .
i 'm telling you a story today about play .
well , this bushman , i think , is talking about the fish that got away that was that long , but it 's a fundamental part of the play scene .
so what does play do for the brain ?
well , a lot .
we don 't know a whole lot about what it does for the human brain , because funding has not been exactly heavy for research on play .
i walked into the carnegie asking for a grant .
they 'd given me a large grant when i was an academician for the study of felony drunken drivers , and i thought i had a pretty good track record ,
and by the time i had spent half an hour talking about play , it was obvious that they were not -- did not feel that play was serious .
i think that -- that 's a few years back -- i think that wave is past , and the play wave is cresting , because there is some good science .
nothing lights up the brain like play .
three-dimensional play fires up the cerebellum , puts a lot of impulses into the frontal lobe -- the executive portion -- helps contextual memory be developed , and -- and , and , and .
so it 's -- for me , its been an extremely nourishing scholarly adventure to look at the neuroscience that 's associated with play , and to bring together people who in their individual disciplines hadn 't really thought of it that way .
and that 's part of what the national institute for play is all about .
and this is one of the ways you can study play -- is to get a 256-lead electroencephalogram .
i 'm sorry i don 't have a playful-looking subject , but it allows mobility , which has limited the actual study of play .
and we 've got a mother-infant play scenario that we 're hoping to complete underway at the moment .
the reason i put this here is also to queue up my thoughts about objectifying what play does .
the animal world has objectified it .
in the animal world , if you take rats , who are hardwired to play at a certain period of their juvenile years and you suppress play -- they squeak , they wrestle , they pin each other , that 's part of their play .
if you stop that behavior on one group that you 're experimenting with , and you allow it in another group that you 're experimenting with , and then you present those rats with a cat odor-saturated collar , they 're hardwired to flee and hide .
pretty smart -- they don 't want to get killed by a cat .
so what happens ?
they both hide out .
the non-players never come out -- they die .
the players slowly explore the environment , and begin again to test things out .
that says to me , at least in rats -- and i think they have the same neurotransmitters that we do and a similar cortical architecture -- that play may be pretty important for our survival .
and , and , and -- there are a lot more animal studies that i could talk about .
now , this is a consequence of play deprivation .
this took a long time -- i had to get homer down and put him through the fmri and the spect and multiple eegs , but as a couch potato , his brain has shrunk .
and we do know that in domestic animals and others , when they 're play deprived , they don 't -- and rats also -- they don 't develop a brain that is normal .
now , the program says that the opposite of play is not work , it 's depression .
and i think if you think about life without play -- no humor , no flirtation , no movies , no games , no fantasy and , and , and .
try and imagine a culture or a life , adult or otherwise without play .
and the thing that 's so unique about our species is that we 're really designed to play through our whole lifetime .
and we all have capacity to play signal .
nobody misses that dog i took a picture of on a carmel beach a couple of weeks ago .
what 's going to follow from that behavior is play .
and you can trust it .
the basis of human trust is established through play signals .
and we begin to lose those signals , culturally and otherwise , as adults .
that 's a shame .
i think we 've got a lot of learning to do .
now , jane goodall has here a play face along with one of her favorite chimps .
so part of the signaling system of play has to do with vocal , facial , body , gestural .
you know , you can tell -- and i think when we 're getting into collective play , its really important for groups to gain a sense of safety through their own sharing of play signals .
you may not know this word ,
but it should be your biological first name and last name .
because neoteny means the retention of immature qualities into adulthood .
and we are , by physical anthropologists , by many , many studies , the most neotenous , the most youthful , the most flexible , the most plastic of all creatures .
and therefore , the most playful .
and this gives us a leg up on adaptability .
now , there is a way of looking at play that i also want to emphasize here , which is the play history .
your own personal play history is unique , and often is not something we think about particularly .
this is a book written by a consummate player by the name of kevin carroll .
kevin carroll came from extremely deprived circumstances : alcoholic mother , absent father , inner-city philadelphia , black , had to take care of a younger brother .
found that when he looked at a playground out of a window into which he had been confined , he felt something different .
and so he followed up on it .
and his life -- the transformation of his life from deprivation and what one would expect -- potentially prison or death -- he become a linguist , a trainer for the 76ers and now is a motivational speaker .
and he gives play as a transformative force over his entire life .
now there 's another play history that i think is a work in progress .
those of you who remember al gore , during the first term and then during his successful but unelected run for the presidency , may remember him as being kind of wooden and not entirely his own person ,
at least in public .
and looking at his history , which is common in the press , it seems to me , at least -- looking at it from a shrink 's point of view -- that a lot of his life was programmed .
summers were hard , hard work , in the heat of tennessee summers .
he had the expectations of his senatorial father and washington , d.c .
and although i think he certainly had the capacity for play -- because i do know something about that -- he wasn 't as empowered , i think , as he now is by paying attention to what is his own passion and his own inner drive , which i think has its basis in all of us in our play history .
so what i would encourage on an individual level to do , is to explore backwards as far as you can go to the most clear , joyful , playful image that you have ,
whether it 's with a toy , on a birthday or on a vacation .
and begin to build to build from the emotion of that into how that connects with your life now .
and you 'll find , you may change jobs -- which has happened to a number people when i 've had them do this -- in order to be more empowered through their play .
or you 'll be able to enrich your life by prioritizing it and paying attention to it .
most of us work with groups , and i put this up because the d.school , the design school at stanford , thanks to david kelley and a lot of others who have been visionary about its establishment , has allowed a group of us to get together and create a course called " from play to innovation . " and you 'll see this course is to investigate the human state of play , which is kind of like the polar bear-husky state and its importance to creative thinking :
" to explore play behavior , its development and its biological basis ;
to apply those principles , through design thinking , to promote innovation in the corporate world ;
and the students will work with real-world partners on design projects with widespread application . "
this is our maiden voyage in this .
we 're about two and a half , three months into it , and it 's really been fun .
there is our star pupil , this labrador , who taught a lot of us what a state of play is , and an extremely aged and decrepit professor in charge there .
and brendan boyle , rich crandall -- and on the far right is , i think , a person who will be in cahoots with george smoot for a nobel prize -- stuart thompson , in neuroscience .
so we 've had brendan , who 's from ideo , and the rest of us sitting aside and watching these students as they put play principles into practice in the classroom .
and one of their projects was to see what makes meetings boring , and to try and do something about it .
so what will follow is a student-made film about just that .
narrator : flow is the mental state of apparition in which the person is fully immersed in what he or she is doing .
characterized by a feeling of energized focus , full involvement and success in the process of the activity .
an important key insight that we learned about meetings is that people pack them in one after another , disruptive to the day .
attendees at meetings don 't know when they 'll get back to the task that they left at their desk .
but it doesn 't have to be that way .
some sage and repeatedly furry monks at this place called the d.school designed a meeting that you can literally step out of when it 's over .
take the meeting off , and have peace of mind that you can come back to me .
because when you need it again , the meeting is literally hanging in your closet .
the wearable meeting .
because when you put it on , you immediately get everything you need to have a fun and productive and useful meeting .
but when you take it off --
that 's when the real action happens .
stuart brown : so i would encourage you all to engage not in the work-play differential -- where you set aside time to play -- but where your life becomes infused minute by minute , hour by hour , with body , object , social , fantasy , transformational kinds of play .
and i think you 'll have a better and more empowered life .
thank you .
john hockenberry : so it sounds to me like what you 're saying is that there may be some temptation on the part of people to look at your work and go -- i think i 've heard this , in my kind of pop psychological understanding of play , that somehow , the way animals and humans deal with play , is that it 's some sort of rehearsal for adult activity .
your work seems to suggest that that is powerfully wrong .
sb : yeah , i don 't think that 's accurate , and i think probably because animals have taught us that .
if you stop a cat from playing -- which you can do , and we 've all seen how cats bat around stuff -- they 're just as good predators as they would be if they hadn 't played .
and if you imagine a kid pretending to be king kong , or a race car driver , or a fireman , they don 't all become race car drivers or firemen , you know .
so there 's a disconnect between preparation for the future -- which is what most people are comfortable in thinking about play as -- and thinking of it as a separate biological entity .
and this is where my chasing animals for four , five years really changed my perspective from a clinician to what i am now , which is that play has a biological place , just like sleep and dreams do .
and if you look at sleep and dreams biologically , animals sleep and dream , and they rehearse and they do some other things that help memory and that are a very important part of sleep and dreams .
the next step of evolution in mammals and creatures with divinely superfluous neurons will be to play .
and the fact that the polar bear and husky or magpie and a bear or you and i and our dogs can crossover and have that experience sets play aside as something separate .
and its hugely important in learning and crafting the brain .
so it 's not just something you do in your spare time .
jh : how do you keep -- and i know you 're part of the scientific research community , and you have to justify your existence with grants and proposals like everyone else -- how do you prevent -- and some of the data that you 've produced , the good science that you 're talking about you 've produced , is hot to handle .
how do you prevent either the media 's interpretation of your work or the scientific community 's interpretation of the implications of your work , kind of like the mozart metaphor , where , " oh , mris show
that play enhances your intelligence .
well , let 's round these kids up , put them in pens and make them play for months at a time ; they 'll all be geniuses and go to harvard . "
how do you prevent people from taking that sort of action on the data that you 're developing ?
sb : well , i think the only way i know to do it is to have accumulated the advisers that i have who go from practitioners -- who can establish through improvisational play or clowning or whatever -- a state of play .
so people know that it 's there .
and then you get an fmri specialist , and you get frank wilson , and you get other kinds of hard scientists , including neuroendocrinologists .
and you get them into a group together focused on play , and it 's pretty hard not to take it seriously .
unfortunately , that hasn 't been done sufficiently for the national science foundation , national institute of mental health or anybody else to really look at it in this way seriously .
i mean you don 't hear about anything that 's like cancer or heart disease associated with play .
and yet i see it as something that 's just as basic for survival -- long term -- as learning some of the basic things about public health .
jh : stuart brown , thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / homaro _ cantu _ ben _ roche _ cooking _ as _ alchemy.html
homaro cantu and ben roche come from moto , a chicago restaurant that plays with new ways to cook and eat food . but beyond the fun and flavor-tripping , there 's a serious intent : can we use new food technology for good ?
agriculture , business , creativity , culture , food
1304
homaro cantu + ben roche : cooking as alchemy
ben roche : so i 'm ben , by the way . homaro cantu : and i 'm homaro .
br : and we 're chefs . so when moto opened in 2004 , people didn 't really know what to expect . a lot of people thought that it was a japanese restaurant , and maybe it was the name , maybe it was the logo , which was like a japanese character , but anyway , we had all these requests for japanese food , which is really not what we did . and after about the ten thousandth request for a maki roll , we decided to give the people what they wanted . so this picture is an example of printed food , and this was the first foray into what we like to call flavor transformation . so this is all the ingredients , all the flavor of , you know , a standard maki roll , printed onto a little piece of paper .
hc : so our diners started to get bored with this idea , and we decided to give them the same course twice , so here we actually took an element from the maki roll and and took a picture of a dish and then basically served that picture with the dish .
so this dish in particular is basically champagne with seafood .
the champagne grapes that you see are actually carbonated grapes . a little bit of seafood and some creme fraiche and the picture actually tastes exactly like the dish .
br : but it 's not all just edible pictures .
we decided to do something a little bit different and transform flavors that were very familiar -- so in this case , we have carrot cake .
so we take a carrot cake , put it in a blender , and we have kind of like a carrot cake juice , and then that went into a balloon frozen in liquid nitrogen to create this hollow shell of carrot cake ice cream , i guess , and it comes off looking like , you know , jupiter 's floating around your plate .
so yeah , we 're transforming things into something that you have absolutely no reference for .
hc : and here 's something we have no reference to eat . this is a cigar , and basically it 's a cuban cigar made out of a cuban pork sandwich , so we take these spices that go into the pork shoulder , we fashion that into ash . we take
the sandwich and wrap it up in a collard green , put an edible label that bears no similarity to a cohiba cigar label , and we put it in a dollar ninety-nine ashtray and charge you about twenty bucks for it .
hc : delicious .
br : that 's not it , though .
instead of making foods that look like things that you wouldn 't eat , we decided to make ingredients look like dishes that you know .
so this is a plate of nachos .
the difference between our nachos and the other guy 's nachos , is that this is actually a dessert .
so the chips are candied , the ground beef is made from chocolate , and the cheese is made from a shredded mango sorbet that gets shredded into liquid nitrogen to look like cheese .
and after doing all of this dematerialization and reconfiguring of this , of these ingredients , we realized that it was pretty cool , because as we served it , we learned that the dish actually behaves like the real thing , where the cheese begins to melt .
so when you 're looking at this thing in the dining room , you have this sensation that this is actually a plate of nachos , and it 's not really until you begin tasting it that you realize this is a dessert , and it 's just kind of like a mind-ripper .
hc : so we had been creating all of these dishes out of a kitchen that was more like a mechanic 's shop than a kitchen , and the next logical step for us was to install a state-of-the-art laboratory , and that 's what we have here .
so we put this in the basement , and we got really serious about food , like serious experimentation .
br : one of the really cool things about the lab , besides that we have a new science lab in the kitchen , is that , you know , with this new equipment , and this new approach , all these different doors to creativity that we never knew were there began to open , and so the experiments and the food and the dishes that we created , they just kept going further and further out there .
hc : let 's talk about flavor transformation , and let 's actually make some cool stuff .
you see a cow with its tongue hanging out .
what i see is a cow about to eat something delicious . what is that cow eating ?
and why is it delicious ?
so the cow , basically , eats three basic things in their feed : corn , beets , and barley , and so what i do is i actually challenge my staff with these crazy , wild ideas . can we take what the cow eats , remove the cow , and then make some hamburgers out of that ?
and basically the reaction tends to be kind of like this .
br : yeah , that 's our chef de cuisine , chris jones . this is not the only guy that just flips out when we assign a ridiculous task , but a lot of these ideas , they 're hard to understand .
they 're hard to just get automatically .
there 's a lot of research and a lot of failure , trial and error -- i guess , more error -- that goes into each and every dish , so we don 't always get it right , and it takes a while for us to be able to explain that to people .
hc : so , after about a day of chris and i staring at each other , we came up with something that was pretty close to the hamburger patty , and as you can see it basically forms like hamburger meat .
this is made from three ingredients : beets , barley , corn , and so it actually cooks up like hamburger meat , looks and tastes like hamburger meat , and not only that , but it 's basically removing the cow from the equation .
so replicating food , taking it into that next level is where we 're going .
br : and it 's definitely the world 's first bleeding veggie burger , which is a cool side effect .
and a miracle berry , if you 're not familiar with it , is a natural ingredient , and it contains a special property .
it 's a glycoprotein called miraculin , a naturally occurring thing . it still freaks me out every time i eat it , but it has a unique ability to mask certain taste receptors on your tongue , so that primarily sour taste receptors , so normally things that would taste very sour or tart , somehow begin to taste very sweet .
hc : you 're about to eat a lemon , and now it tastes like lemonade .
let 's just stop and think about the economic benefits of something like that .
we could eliminate sugar across the board for all confectionary products and sodas , and we can replace it with all-natural fresh fruit .
br : so you see us here cutting up some watermelon . the idea with this is that we 're going to eliminate tons of food miles , wasted energy , and overfishing of tuna by creating tuna , or any exotic produce or item from a very far-away place , with local , organic produce ; so we have a watermelon from wisconsin .
hc : so if miracle berries take sour things and turn them into sweet things , we have this other pixie dust that we put on the watermelon , and it makes it go from sweet to savory .
so after we do that , we put it into a vacuum bag , add a little bit of seaweed , some spices , and we roll it , and this starts taking on the appearance of tuna .
so the key now is to make it behave like tuna .
br : and then after a quick dip into some liquid nitrogen to get that perfect sear , we really have something that looks , tastes and behaves like the real thing .
hc : so the key thing to remember here is , we don 't really care what this tuna really is .
as long as it 's good for you and good for the environment , it doesn 't matter .
but where is this going ?
how can we take this idea of tricking your tastebuds and leapfrog it into something that we can do today that could be a disruptive food technology ?
so here 's the next challenge .
i told the staff , let 's just take a bunch of wild plants , think of them as food ingredients . as long as they 're non-poisonous to the human body , go out around chicago sidewalks , take it , blend it , cook it and then have everybody flavor-trip on it at moto .
let 's charge them a boatload of cash for this and see what they think .
br : yeah , so you can imagine , a task like this -- this is another one of those assignments that the kitchen staff hated us for . but we really had to almost relearn how to cook in general , because these are ingredients , you know , plant life that we 're , one , unfamiliar with , and two , we have no reference for how to cook these things because people don 't eat them .
so we really had to think about new , creative ways to flavor , new ways to cook and to change texture -- and that was the main issue with this challenge .
hc : so this is where we step into the future and we leapfrog ahead .
so developing nations and first-world nations , imagine if you could take these wild plants and consume them , food miles would basically turn into food feet .
this disruptive mentality of what food is would essentially open up the encyclopedia of what raw ingredients are , even if we just swapped out , say , one of these for flour , that would eliminate so much energy and so much waste .
and to give you a simple example here as to what we actually fed these customers , there 's a bale of hay there and some crab apples .
and basically we took hay and crab apples and made barbecue sauce out of those two ingredients .
people swore they were eating barbecue sauce , and this is free food .
br : thanks , guys .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / alisa _ miller _ shares _ the _ news _ about _ the _ news.html
alisa miller , head of public radio international , talks about why -- though we want to know more about the world than ever -- the us media is actually showing less . eye-opening stats and graphs .
google , business , economics , entertainment , global issues , media , news , short talk
248
alisa miller shares the news about the news
how does the news shape the way we see the world ?
here 's the world based on the way it looks -- based on landmass .
and here 's how news shapes what americans see .
this map -- -- this map shows the number of seconds that american network and cable news organizations dedicated to news stories , by country , in february of 2007 -- just one year ago .
now , this was a month when north korea agreed to dismantle its nuclear facilities .
there was massive flooding in indonesia .
and in paris , the ipcc released its study confirming man 's impact on global warming .
the u.s. accounted for 79 percent of total news coverage .
and when we take out the u.s. and look at the remaining 21 percent , we see a lot of iraq -- that 's that big green thing there -- and little else .
the combined coverage of russia , china and india , for example , reached just one percent .
when we analyzed all the news stories and removed just one story , here 's how the world looked .
what was that story ? the death of anna nicole smith .
this story eclipsed every country except iraq , and received 10 times the coverage of the ipcc report .
and the cycle continues ; as we all know , britney has loomed pretty large lately .
so , why don 't we hear more about the world ?
one reason is that news networks have reduced the number of their foreign bureaus by half .
aside from one-person abc mini-bureaus in nairobi , new delhi and mumbai , there are no network news bureaus in all of africa , india or south america -- places that are home to more than two billion people .
the reality is that covering britney is cheaper .
and this lack of global coverage is all the more disturbing when we see where people go for news .
local tv news looms large , and unfortunately only dedicates 12 percent of its coverage to international news .
and what about the web ?
the most popular news sites don 't do much better .
last year , pew and the colombia j-school analyzed the 14,000 stories that appeared on google news ' front page .
and they , in fact , covered the same 24 news events .
similarly , a study in e-content showed that much of global news from u.s. news creators is recycled stories from the ap wire services and reuters , and don 't put things into a context that people can understand their connection to it .
so , if you put it all together , this could help explain why today 's college graduates , as well as less educated americans , know less about the world than their counterparts did 20 years ago .
and if you think it 's simply because we are not interested , you would be wrong .
in recent years , americans who say they closely follow global news most of the time grew to over 50 percent .
the real question : is this distorted worldview what we want for americans in our increasingly interconnected world ?
i know we can do better .
and can we afford not to ? thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / nathan _ wolfe _ hunts _ for _ the _ next _ aids.html
virus hunter nathan wolfe is outwitting the next pandemic by staying two steps ahead : discovering deadly new viruses where they first emerge -- passing from animals to humans among poor subsistence hunters in africa -- before they claim millions of lives .
aids , africa , adventure , biodiversity , biology , disease , exploration , global issues , health , microbiology , pandemic , primates , science , virus
499
nathan wolfe 's jungle search for viruses
when most people think about the beginnings of aids , they 're gonna think back to the 1980s .
and certainly , this was the decade in which we discovered aids and the virus that causes it , hiv .
but in fact this virus crossed over into humans many decades before , from chimpanzees , where the virus originated , into humans who hunt these apes .
this photo was taken before the great depression in brazzaville , congo .
at this time , there were thousands of individuals , we think , that were infected with hiv .
so i have a couple of really important questions for you .
if this virus was in thousands of individuals at this point , why was it the case that it took us until 1984 to be able to discover this virus ?
ok now , more importantly , had we been there in the ' 40s and ' 50s , ' 60s , had we seen this disease , had we understood exactly what was going on with it , how might that have changed and completely transformed the nature of the way this pandemic moved ?
in fact , this is not unique to hiv . the vast majority of viruses come from animals .
and you can kind of think of this as a pyramid of this bubbling up of viruses from animals into human populations .
but only at the very top of this pyramid do these things become completely human .
nevertheless , we spend the vast majority of our energy focused on this level of the pyramid , trying to tackle things that are already completely adapted to human beings , that are going to be very very difficult to address -- as we 've seen in the case of hiv .
so during the last 15 years , i 've been working to actually study the earlier interface here -- what i 've labeled " viral chatter , " which was a term coined by my mentor don burke .
this is the idea that we can study the sort of pinging of these viruses into human populations , the movement of these agents over into humans ; and by capturing this moment , we might be able to move to a situation where we can catch them early .
ok , so this is a picture , and i 'm going to show you some pictures now from the field .
this is a picture of a central african hunter .
it 's actually a fairly common picture .
one of the things i want you to note from it is blood -- that you see a tremendous amount of blood contact .
this was absolutely key for us . this is a very intimate form of connection .
so if we 're going to study viral chatter , we need to get to these populations who have intensive contact with wild animals .
and so we 've been studying people like this individual .
we collect blood from them , other specimens .
we look at the diseases , which are in the animals as well as the humans .
and ideally , this is going to allow us to catch these things early on , as they 're moving over into human populations .
and the basic objective of this work is not to just go out once and look at these individuals , but to establish thousands of individuals in these populations that we would monitor continuously on a regular basis .
when they were sick , we would collect specimens from them .
we would actually enlist them -- which we 've done now -- to collect specimens from animals .
we give them these little pieces of filter paper .
when they sample from animals , they collect the blood on the filter paper and this allows us to identify yet-unknown viruses from exactly the right animals -- the ones that are actually being hunted .
narrator : deep in a remote region of cameroon , two hunters stalk their prey .
their names are patrice and patee .
they 're searching for bush meat ; forest animals they can kill to feed their families .
patrice and patee set out most days to go out hunting in the forest around their homes .
they have a series of traps , of snares that they 've set up to catch wild pigs , snakes , monkeys , rodents -- anything they can , really .
patrice and patee have been out for hours but found nothing .
the animals are simply gone .
we stop for a drink of water .
then there is a rustle in the brush .
a group of hunters approach ,
their packs loaded with wild game .
there 's at least three viruses that you know about , which are in this particular monkey .
nathan wolfe : this species , yeah . and there 's many many more pathogens that are present in these animals .
these individuals are at specific risk , particularly if there 's blood contact , they 're at risk for transmission and possibly infection with novel viruses .
narrator : as the hunters display their kills , something surprising happens .
they show us filter paper they 've used to collect the animals ' blood .
the blood will be tested for zoonotic viruses , part of a program dr. wolfe has spent years setting up .
nw : so this is from this animal right here , greater spot-nosed guenon .
every person who has one of those filter papers has at least , at a minimum , been through our basic health education about the risks associated with these activities , which presumably , from our perspective , gives them the ability to decrease their own risk , and then obviously the risk to their families , the village , the country , and the world .
nw : ok , before i continue , i think it 's important to take just a moment to talk about bush meat . bush meat is the hunting of wild game .
ok ? and you can consider all sorts of different bush meat .
i 'm going to be talking about this .
when your children and grandchildren sort of pose questions to you about this period of time , one of the things they 're gonna ask you , is how it was they we allowed some of our closest living relatives , some of the most valuable and endangered species on our planet , to go extinct because we weren 't able to address some of the issues of poverty in these parts of the world .
but in fact that 's not the only question they 're going to ask you about this .
they 're also going to ask you the question that when we knew that this was the way that hiv entered into the human population , and that other diseases had the potential to enter like this , why did we let these behaviors continue ?
why did we not find some other solution to this ?
they 're going to say , in regions of profound instability throughout the world , where you have intense poverty , where populations are growing and you don 't have sustainable resources like this , this is going to lead to food insecurity .
but they 're also going to ask you probably a different question .
it 's one that i think we all need to ask ourselves , which is , why we thought the responsibility rested with this individual here .
now this is the individual -- you can see just right up over his right shoulder -- this is the individual that hunted the monkey from the last picture that i showed you .
ok , take a look at his shirt .
you know , take a look at his face .
bush meat is one of the central crises , which is occurring in our population right now , in humanity , on this planet .
but it can 't be the fault of somebody like this .
ok ? and solving it cannot be his responsibility alone .
there 's no easy solutions , but what i 'm saying to you is that we neglect this problem at our own peril .
so , in 1998 , along with my mentors don burke and colonel mpoudi-ngole , we went to actually start this work in central africa , to work with hunters in this part of the world .
and my job -- at that time i was a post-doctoral fellow , and i was really tasked with setting this up .
so i said to myself , " ok , great -- we 're gonna collect all kinds of specimens . we 're gonna go to all these different locations . it 's going to be wonderful . "
you know , i looked at the map ; i picked out 17 sites ; i figured , no problem .
needless to say , i was drastically wrong . this is challenging work to do .
fortunately , i had and continue to have an absolutely wonderful team of colleagues and collaborators in my own team , and that 's the only way that this work can really occur .
we have a whole range of challenges about this work .
one of them is just obtaining trust from individuals that we work with in the field .
the person you see on the right hand side is paul delong-minutu .
he 's one of the best communicators that i 've really ever dealt with .
when i arrived i didn 't speak a word of french , and i still seemed to understand what it was he was saying .
paul worked for years on the cameroonian national radio and television , and he spoke about health issues . he was a health correspondent .
so we figured we 'd hire this person -- when we got there he could be a great communicator .
when we would get to these rural villages , though , what we found out is that no one had television , so they wouldn 't recognize his face .
but -- when he began to speak they would actually recognize his voice from the radio .
and this was somebody who had incredible potential to spread aspects of our message , whether it be with regards to wildlife conservation or health prevention .
often we run into obstacles . this is us coming back from one of these very rural sites , with specimens from 200 individuals that we needed to get back to the lab within 48 hours .
i like to show this shot -- this is ubald tamoufe , who 's the lead investigator in our cameroon site .
ubald laughs at me when i show this photo because of course you can 't see his face .
but the reason i like to show the shot is because you can see that he 's about to solve this problem .
which -- which he did , which he did .
just a few quick before and after shots .
this was our laboratory before .
this is what it looks like now .
early on , in order to ship our specimens , we had to have dry ice . to get dry ice we had to go to the breweries -- beg , borrow , steal to get these folks to give it to us .
now we have our own liquid nitrogen .
i like to call our laboratory the coldest place in central africa -- it might be .
and here 's a shot of me , this is the before shot of me .
no comment .
so what happened ? so during the 10 years that we 've been doing this work , we actually surprised ourselves .
we made a number of discoveries .
and what we 've found is that if you look in the right place , you can actually monitor the flow of these viruses into human populations .
that gave us a tremendous amount of hope .
what we 've found is a whole range of new viruses in these individuals , including new viruses in the same group as hiv -- so , brand new retroviruses .
and let 's face it , any new retrovirus in the human population -- it 's something we should be aware of .
it 's something we should be following . it 's not something that we should be surprised by .
needless to say in the past these viruses entering into these rural communities might very well have gone extinct .
that 's no longer the case . logging roads provide access to urban areas .
and critically , what happens in central africa doesn 't stay in central africa .
so , once we discovered that it was really possible that we could actually do this monitoring , we decided to move this from research , to really attempt to phase up to a global monitoring effort .
through generous support and partnership scientifically with google.org and the skoll foundation , we were able to start the global viral forecasting initiative and begin work in four different sites in africa and asia .
needless to say , different populations from different parts of the world have different sorts of contact .
so it 's not just hunters in central africa .
it 's also working in live animal markets -- these wet markets -- which is exactly the place where sars emerged in asia .
but really , this is just the beginning from our perspective .
our objective right now , in addition to deploying to these sites and getting everything moving , is to identify new partners because we feel like this effort needs to be extended to probably 20 or more sites throughout the world -- to viral hotspots -- because really the idea here is to cast an incredibly wide net so that we can catch these things , ideally , before they make it to blood banks , sexual networks , airplanes . and that 's really our objective .
there was a time not very long ago when the discovery of unknown organisms was something that held incredible awe for us .
it had potential to really change the way that we saw ourselves , and thought about ourselves .
many people , i think , on our planet right now despair , and they think we 've reached a point where we 've discovered most of the things .
i 'm going tell you right now : please don 't despair .
if an intelligent extra-terrestrial was taxed with writing the encyclopedia of life on our planet , 27 out of 30 of these volumes would be devoted to bacteria and virus , with just a few of the volumes left for plants , fungus and animals , humans being a footnote ; interesting footnote but a footnote nonetheless .
this is honestly the most exciting period ever for the study of unknown life forms on our planet .
the dominant things that exist here we know almost nothing about .
and yet finally , we have the tools , which will allow us to actually explore that world and understand them .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / golan _ levin _ ted2009.html
golan levin , an artist and engineer , uses modern tools -- robotics , new software , cognitive research -- to make artworks that surprise and delight . watch as sounds become shapes , bodies create paintings , and a curious eye looks back at the curious viewer .
art , arts , creativity , design , poetry , software , technology
606
golan levin makes art that looks back at you
hello ! my name is golan levin .
i 'm an artist and an engineer ,
which is , increasingly , a more common kind of hybrid .
but i still fall into this weird crack where people don 't seem to understand me .
and i was looking around and i found this wonderful picture .
it 's a letter from " artforum " in 1967 saying " we can 't imagine ever doing a special issue on electronics or computers in art . " and they still haven 't .
and lest you think that you all , as the digerati , are more enlightened , i went to the apple iphone app store the other day .
where 's art ? i got productivity . i got sports .
and somehow the idea that one would want to make art for the iphone , which my friends and i are doing now , is still not reflected in our understanding of what computers are for .
so , from both directions , there is kind of , i think , a lack of understanding about what it could mean to be an artist who uses the materials of his own day , or her own day ,
which i think artists are obliged to do , is to really explore the expressive potential of the new tools that we have .
in my own case , i 'm an artist , and i 'm really interested in expanding the vocabulary of human action , and basically empowering people through interactivity .
i want people to discover themselves as actors , as creative actors , by having interactive experiences .
a lot of my work is about trying to get away from this .
this a photograph of the desktop of a student of mine .
and when i say desktop , i don 't just mean the actual desk where his mouse has worn away the surface of the desk .
if you look carefully , you can even see a hint of the apple menu , up here in the upper left , where the virtual world has literally punched through to the physical .
so this is , as joy mountford once said , " the mouse is probably the narrowest straw you could try to suck all of human expression through . "
and the thing i 'm really trying to do is enabling people to have more rich kinds of interactive experiences .
how can we get away from the mouse and use our full bodies as a way of exploring aesthetic experiences , not necessarily utilitarian ones .
so i write software . and that 's how i do it .
and a lot of my experiences resemble mirrors in some way .
because this is , in some sense , the first way , that people discover their own potential as actors , and discover their own agency .
by saying " who is that person in the mirror ? oh it 's actually me . "
and so , to give an example , this is a project from last year ,
which is called the interstitial fragment processor .
and it allows people to explore the negative shapes that they create when they 're just going about their everyday business .
so as people make shapes with their hands or their heads and so forth , or with each other , these shapes literally produce sounds and drop out of thin air --
basically taking what 's often this , kind of , unseen space , or this undetected space , and making it something real , that people then can appreciate and become creative with .
so again , people discover their creative agency in this way .
and their own personalities come out in totally unique ways .
so in addition to using full-body input , something that i 've explored now , for a while , has been the use of the voice ,
which is an immensely expressive system for us , vocalizing .
song is one of our oldest ways of making ourselves heard and understood .
and i came across this fantastic research by wolfgang kohler , the so-called father of gestalt psychology , from 1927 , who submitted to an audience like yourselves the following two shapes .
and he said one of them is called maluma .
and one of them is called taketa . which is which ?
anyone want to hazard a guess ?
maluma is on top . yeah . so .
as he says here , most people answer without any hesitation .
so what we 're really seeing here is a phenomenon called phonaesthesia ,
which is a kind of synesthesia that all of you have .
and so , whereas dr. oliver sacks has talked about how perhaps one person in a million actually has true synesthesia , where they hear colors or taste shapes , and things like this ,
phonaesthesia is something we can all experience to some extent .
it 's about mappings between different perceptual domains , like hardness , sharpness , brightness and darkness , and the phonemes that we 're able to speak with .
so 70 years on , there 's been some research where cognitive psychologists have actually sussed out the extent to which , you know , l , m and b are more associated with shapes that look like this ,
and p , t and k are perhaps more associated with shapes like this .
and here we suddenly begin to have a mapping between curvature that we can exploit numerically , a relative mapping between curvature and shape .
so it occurred to me , what happens if we could run these backwards ?
and thus was born the project called remark ,
which is a collaboration with zachary lieberman and the ars electronica futurelab .
and this is an interactive installation which presents the fiction that speech casts visible shadows .
so the idea is you step into a kind of a magic light . and as you do , you see the shadows of your own speech .
and they sort of fly away , out of your head .
if a computer speech recognition system is able to recognize what you 're saying , then it spells it out .
and if it isn 't then it produces a shape which is very phonaesthetically tightly coupled to the sounds you made .
so let 's bring up a video of that .
thanks . so . and this project here , i was working with the great abstract vocalist , jaap blonk .
and he is a world expert in performing " the ursonate , " which is a half-an-hour nonsense poem by kurt schwitters , written in the 1920s ,
which is half an hour of very highly patterned nonsense .
and it 's almost impossible to perform .
but jaap is one of the world experts in performing it .
and in this project we 've developed a form of intelligent real-time subtitles .
so these are our live subtitles , that are being produced by a computer that knows the text of " the ursonate " -- fortunately jaap does too , very well --
and it is delivering that text at the same time as jaap is .
so all the text you 're going to see is real-time generated by the computer , visualizing what he 's doing with his voice .
here you can see the set-up where there is a screen with the subtitles behind him .
okay . so ...
the full videos are online if you are interested .
i got a split reaction to that during the live performance ,
because there is some people who understand live subtitles are a kind of an oxymoron ,
because usually there is someone making them afterwards .
and then a bunch of people who were like , " what 's the big deal ?
i see subtitles all the time on television . "
you know ? they don 't imagine the person in the booth , typing it all .
so in addition to the full body , and in addition to the voice , another thing that i 've been really interested in , most recently , is the use of the eyes , or the gaze , in terms of how people relate to each other .
it 's a really profound amount of nonverbal information that 's communicated with the eyes .
and it 's one of the most interesting technical challenges that 's very currently active in the computer sciences :
being able to have a camera that can understand , from a fairly big distance away , how these little tiny balls are actually pointing in one way or another to reveal what you 're interested in , and where your attention is directed .
so there is a lot of emotional communication that happens there .
and so i 've been beginning , with a variety of different projects , to understand how people can relate to machines with their eyes .
and basically to ask the questions : what if art was aware that we were looking at it ?
how could it respond , in a way , to acknowledge or subvert the fact that we 're looking at it ?
and what could it do if it could look back at us ?
and so those are the questions that are happening in the next projects .
in the first one which i 'm going to show you , called eyecode , it 's a piece of interactive software in which , if we read this little circle , " the trace left by the looking of the previous observer looks at the trace left by the looking of previous observer . "
the idea is that it 's an image wholly constructed from its own history of being viewed by different people in an installation .
so let me just switch over so we can do the live demo .
so let 's run this and see if it works .
okay . ah , there is lots of nice bright video .
there is just a little test screen that shows that it 's working .
and what i 'm just going to do is -- i 'm going to hide that . and you can see here that what it 's doing is it 's recording my eyes every time i blink .
hello ? and i can ... hello ... okay .
and no matter where i am , what 's really going on here is that it 's an eye-tracking system that tries to locate my eyes .
and if i get really far away i 'm blurry .
you know , you 're going to have these kind of blurry spots like this that maybe only resemble eyes in a very very abstract way .
but if i come up really close and stare directly at the camera on this laptop then you 'll see these nice crisp eyes .
you can think of it as a way of , sort of , typing , with your eyes .
and what you 're typing are recordings of your eyes as you 're looking at other peoples ' eyes .
so each person is looking at the looking of everyone else before them .
and this exists in larger installations where there are thousands and thousands of eyes that people could be staring at , as you see who 's looking at the people looking at the people looking before them .
so i 'll just add a couple more . blink . blink .
and you can see , just once again , how it 's sort of finding my eyes and doing its best to estimate when it 's blinking .
alright . let 's leave that .
so that 's this kind of recursive observation system .
thank you .
the last couple pieces i 'm going to show are basically in the new realm of robotics -- for me , new for me .
it 's called opto-isolator .
and i 'm going to show a video of the older version of it , which is just a minute long . okay .
in this case , the opto-isolator is blinking in response to one 's own blinks .
so it blinks one second after you do .
this is a device which is intended to reduce the phenomenon of gaze down to the simplest possible materials .
just one eye , looking at you , and eliminating everything else about a face ,
but just to consider gaze in an isolated way as a kind of , as an element .
and at the same time , it attempts to engage in what you might call familiar psycho-social gaze behaviors .
like looking away if you look at it too long because it gets shy ,
or things like that .
okay . so the last project i 'm going to show is this new one called snout .
it 's an eight-foot snout , with a googly eye .
and inside it 's got an 800-pound robot arm that i borrowed , from a friend .
it helps to have good friends .
i 'm at carnegie mellon ; we 've got a great robotics institute there .
i 'd like to show you thing called snout , which is --
the idea behind this project is to make a robot that appears as if it 's continually surprised to see you .
the idea is that basically --
if it 's constantly like " huh ? ... huh ? "
that 's why its other name is doubletaker , taker of doubles .
it 's always kind of doing a double take : " what ? "
and the idea is basically , can it look at you and make you feel as if like , " what ? is it my shoes ? "
" got something on my hair ? " here we go . alright .
checking him out ...
for you nerds , here 's a little behind-the-scenes .
it 's got a computer vision system ,
and it tries to look at the people who are moving around the most .
those are its targets .
up there is the skeleton ,
which is actually what it 's trying to do . it 's really about trying to create a novel body language for a new creature .
hollywood does this all the time , of course .
but also have the body language communicate something to the person who is looking at it .
this language is communicating that it is surprised to see you , and it 's interested in looking at you .
thank you very much . that 's all i 've got for today .
and i 'm really happy to be here . thank you so much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / evan _ williams _ on _ listening _ to _ twitter _ users.html
in the year leading up to this talk , the web tool twitter exploded in size . co-founder evan williams reveals that many of the ideas driving that growth came from unexpected uses invented by the users themselves .
business , communication , culture , entertainment , social change , social media , technology
473
evan williams on listening to twitter users
four years ago , on the ted stage , i announced a company i was working with at the time called odeo .
and because of that announcement , we got a big article in the new york times , which led to more press , which led to more attention , and me deciding to become ceo of that company -- whereas i was just an adviser -- and raising a round of venture capital and ramping up hiring . one of the guys i hired was an engineer named jack dorsey , and a year later we were trying to decide which way to go with odeo , and jack presented an idea he 'd been tinkering around with for a number of years that was based around sending simple status updates to friends .
we were also playing with sms at the time at odeo , so we kind of put two and two together , and in early 2006 we launched twitter as a side project at odeo .
now , it 's hard to justify doing a side project at a startup , where focus is so critical , but i had actually launched blogger as a side project to my previous company , thinking it was just a little thing we 'd do on the side , and it ended up taking over not only the company , but my life over the next five or six years .
so i learned to follow hunches even though you can 't necessarily justify them or know where they 're going to go .
and that 's kind of what 's happened with twitter , time after time .
so , for those of you unfamiliar , twitter is based around a very simple , seemingly trivial concept .
you say what you 're doing in 140 characters or less , and people who are interested in you get those updates .
if they 're really interested , they get the update as a text message on their cell phone .
so , for instance , i may twitter right now that i 'm giving a talk at ted .
it 's a normal everyday thing .
and in my case , when i hit send , up to 60,000 people will receive that message in a matter of seconds .
now , the fundamental idea is that twitter lets people share moments of their lives whenever they want , be they momentous occasions or mundane ones .
it is by sharing these moments as they 're happening that lets people feel more connected and in touch , despite distance , and in real time .
this was the primary use we saw for twitter from the beginning , and what got us excited .
what we didn 't anticipate was the many , many other uses that would evolve from this very simple system . one of the things we realized was how important twitter could be during real-time events .
when the wildfires broke out in san diego , in october of 2007 , people turned to twitter to report what was happening and to find information from neighbors about what was happening around them .
but it wasn 't just individuals .
the l.a. times actually turned to twitter to dispense information as well , and put a twitter feed on the front page , and the l.a. fire department and red cross used it to dispense news and updates as well . at this event , dozens of people are twittering and thousands of people are following along because they want to know what it feels like to be here and what 's happening . among the other interesting things that have cropped up are many things from businesses , from marketing and communications and predictable things , to an insanely popular korean-barbecue taco truck that drives around l.a. and twitters where it stops , causing a line to form around the block . politicians have recently begun twittering . in fact , there are 47 members of congress who currently have twitter accounts . and they 're tweeting , in some cases , from behind closed-door sessions with the president . in this case , this guy 's not liking what he 's hearing .
the president himself is our most popular twitter user , although his tweets have dropped off as of late , while senator mccain 's have picked up .
as have this guy 's .
twitter was originally designed as a broadcast medium :
you send one message and it goes out to everybody , and you receive the messages you 're interested in .
one of the many ways that users shaped the evolution of twitter was by inventing a way to reply to a specific person or a specific message . so , this syntax , the " @ username " that shaquille o 'neal 's using here to reply to one of his fans , was completely invented by users , and we didn 't build it into the system until it already became popular and then we made it easier .
this is one of the many ways that users have shaped the system .
another is via the api .
we built an application-programming interface , which basically means that programmers can write software that interacts with twitter .
we currently know about over 2,000 pieces of software that can send twitter updates -- interfaces for mac , windows , your iphone , your blackberry --
as well as things like a device that lets an unborn baby twitter when it kicks or a plant twitter when it needs water . probably the most important third-party development came from a little company in virginia called summize . summize built a twitter search engine . and they tapped into the fact that , if you have millions of people around the world talking about what they 're doing and what 's around them , you have an incredible resource to find out about any topic or event while it 's going on . this really changed how we perceived twitter . for instance , here 's what people are saying about ted . this is another way that our mind was shifted , and twitter wasn 't what we thought it was . we liked this so much we actually bought the company and are folding it into the main product . this not only lets you view twitters in different ways , but it introduces new use cases as well .
one of my favorites is what happened a few months ago when there was a gas shortage in atlanta . some users figured out that they would twitter when they found gas -- where it was , and how much it cost -- and then appended the keyword " # atlgas " so that other people search for that and find gas themselves . and this trend of people using this communication network to help each other out goes far beyond the original idea of just keeping up with family and friends . it 's happened more and more lately , whether it 's raising money for homeless people or to dig wells in africa or for a family in crisis . people have raised tens of thousands of dollars over twitter in a matter of days on several occasions . it seems like when you give people easier ways to share information , more good things happen . i have no idea what will happen next with twitter .
i 've learned to follow the hunch , but never assume where it will go . thanks .
chris anderson : we 're not quite done yet .
so , look , if we could have this screen live ...
this is actually the most terrifying thing that any speaker can do after they 've been to an event . it 's totally intimidating .
so , this would be the twitter search screen . let 's type a couple of random words into twitter .
for example : " evan williams . " ... " give people more information and follow your hunch @ # ted . "
... " currently listening to evan williams . "
oh ... " evan williams is just dying on stage here at ted .
worst talk ever ! " evan williams : nice . thanks .
ca : just kidding . but , literally in the eight minutes he was talking , there are about fifty tweets that already came on the talk .
so he 'll see every aspect of the reaction : the fact that barack obama is the biggest twitterer , the fact that it came out of ted ... i don 't think there 's any other way of getting instant feedback that way . you have build something very fascinating , and it looks like its best times are still ahead of it .
so , thank you very much , evan .
that was very interesting . ew : thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / chimamanda _ adichie _ the _ danger _ of _ a _ single _ story.html
our lives , our cultures , are composed of many overlapping stories . novelist chimamanda adichie tells the story of how she found her authentic cultural voice -- and warns that if we hear only a single story about another person or country , we risk a critical misunderstanding .
africa , book , culture , storytelling , third world , writing
652
chimamanda adichie : the danger of a single story
i 'm a storyteller .
and i would like to tell you a few personal stories about what i like to call " the danger of the single story . "
i grew up on a university campus in eastern nigeria .
my mother says that i started reading at the age of two , although i think four is probably close to the truth .
so i was an early reader , and what i read were british and american children 's books .
i was also an early writer ,
and when i began to write , at about the age of seven , stories in pencil with crayon illustrations that my poor mother was obligated to read , i wrote exactly the kinds of stories i was reading :
all my characters were white and blue-eyed ,
they played in the snow , they ate apples ,
how lovely it was that the sun had come out .
now , this despite the fact that i lived in nigeria .
i had never been outside nigeria .
we didn 't have snow , we ate mangoes ,
and we never talked about the weather , because there was no need to .
my characters also drank a lot of ginger beer because the characters in the british books i read drank ginger beer .
never mind that i had no idea what ginger beer was .
and for many years afterwards , i would have a desperate desire to taste ginger beer .
but that is another story .
what this demonstrates , i think , is how impressionable and vulnerable we are in the face of a story , particularly as children .
because all i had read were books in which characters were foreign , i had become convinced that books by their very nature had to have foreigners in them and had to be about things with which i could not personally identify .
things changed when i discovered african books .
there weren 't many of them available , and they weren 't quite as easy to find as the foreign books .
but because of writers like chinua achebe and camara laye i went through a mental shift in my perception of literature .
i realized that people like me , girls with skin the color of chocolate , whose kinky hair could not form ponytails , could also exist in literature .
i started to write about things i recognized .
now , i loved those american and british books i read .
they stirred my imagination . they opened up new worlds for me .
but the unintended consequence was that i did not know that people like me could exist in literature .
so what the discovery of african writers did for me was this : it saved me from having a single story of what books are .
i come from a conventional , middle-class nigerian family .
my father was a professor .
my mother was an administrator .
and so we had , as was the norm , live-in domestic help , who would often come from nearby rural villages .
so the year i turned eight we got a new house boy .
his name was fide .
the only thing my mother told us about him was that his family was very poor .
my mother sent yams and rice , and our old clothes , to his family .
and when i didn 't finish my dinner my mother would say , " finish your food ! don 't you know ? people like fide 's family have nothing . "
so i felt enormous pity for fide 's family .
then one saturday we went to his village to visit ,
and his mother showed us a beautifully patterned basket made of dyed raffia that his brother had made .
i was startled .
it had not occurred to me that anybody in his family could actually make something .
all i had heard about them was how poor they were , so that it had become impossible for me to see them as anything else but poor .
their poverty was my single story of them .
years later , i thought about this when i left nigeria to go to university in the united states .
i was 19 .
my american roommate was shocked by me .
she asked where i had learned to speak english so well , and was confused when i said that nigeria happened to have english as its official language .
she asked if she could listen to what she called my " tribal music , " and was consequently very disappointed when i produced my tape of mariah carey .
she assumed that i did not know how to use a stove .
what struck me was this : she had felt sorry for me even before she saw me .
her default position toward me , as an african , was a kind of patronizing , well-meaning pity .
my roommate had a single story of africa :
a single story of catastrophe .
in this single story there was no possibility of africans being similar to her in any way ,
no possibility of feelings more complex than pity ,
no possibility of a connection as human equals .
i must say that before i went to the u.s. i didn 't consciously identify as african . but in the u.s. whenever africa came up people turned to me .
never mind that i knew nothing about places like namibia .
but i did come to embrace this new identity ,
and in many ways i think of myself now as african .
although i still get quite irritable when africa is referred to as a country ,
the most recent example being my otherwise wonderful flight from lagos two days ago , in which there was an announcement on the virgin flight about the charity work in " india , africa and other countries . "
so after i had spent some years in the u.s. as an african , i began to understand my roommate 's response to me . if i had not grown up in nigeria , and if all i knew about africa were from popular images , i too would think that africa was a place of beautiful landscapes , beautiful animals , and incomprehensible people , fighting senseless wars , dying of poverty and aids , unable to speak for themselves and waiting to be saved by a kind , white foreigner .
i would see africans in the same way that i , as a child , had seen fide 's family .
this single story of africa ultimately comes , i think , from western literature .
now , here is a quote from the writing of a london merchant called john locke , who sailed to west africa in 1561 and kept a fascinating account of his voyage .
after referring to the black africans as " beasts who have no houses , " he writes , " they are also people without heads , having their mouth and eyes in their breasts . "
now , i 've laughed every time i 've read this .
and one must admire the imagination of john locke .
but what is important about his writing is that it represents the beginning of a tradition of telling african stories in the west :
a tradition of sub-saharan africa as a place of negatives , of difference , of darkness , of people who , in the words of the wonderful poet rudyard kipling , are " half devil , half child . "
and so i began to realize that my american roommate must have throughout her life seen and heard different versions of this single story , as had a professor , who once told me that my novel was not " authentically african . "
now , i was quite willing to contend that there were a number of things wrong with the novel , that it had failed in a number of places ,
but i had not quite imagined that it had failed at achieving something called african authenticity .
in fact i did not know what african authenticity was .
the professor told me that my characters were too much like him , an educated and middle-class man .
my characters drove cars .
they were not starving .
therefore they were not authentically african .
but i must quickly add that i too am just as guilty in the question of the single story .
a few years ago , i visited mexico from the u.s .
the political climate in the u.s. at the time was tense ,
and there were debates going on about immigration .
and , as often happens in america , immigration became synonymous with mexicans .
there were endless stories of mexicans as people who were fleecing the healthcare system , sneaking across the border , being arrested at the border , that sort of thing .
i remember walking around on my first day in guadalajara , watching the people going to work , rolling up tortillas in the marketplace , smoking , laughing .
i remember first feeling slight surprise .
and then i was overwhelmed with shame .
i realized that i had been so immersed in the media coverage of mexicans that they had become one thing in my mind , the abject immigrant .
i had bought into the single story of mexicans and i could not have been more ashamed of myself .
so that is how to create a single story , show a people as one thing , as only one thing , over and over again , and that is what they become .
it is impossible to talk about the single story without talking about power .
there is a word , an igbo word , that i think about whenever i think about the power structures of the world , and it is " nkali . "
it 's a noun that loosely translates to " to be greater than another . "
like our economic and political worlds , stories too are defined by the principle of nkali :
how they are told , who tells them , when they 're told , how many stories are told , are really dependent on power .
power is the ability not just to tell the story of another person , but to make it the definitive story of that person .
the palestinian poet mourid barghouti writes that if you want to dispossess a people , the simplest way to do it is to tell their story and to start with , " secondly . "
start the story with the arrows of the native americans , and not with the arrival of the british , and you have an entirely different story .
start the story with the failure of the african state , and not with the colonial creation of the african state , and you have an entirely different story .
i recently spoke at a university where a student told me that it was such a shame that nigerian men were physical abusers like the father character in my novel .
i told him that i had just read a novel called american psycho -- -- and that it was such a shame that young americans were serial murderers .
now , obviously i said this in a fit of mild irritation .
but it would never have occurred to me to think that just because i had read a novel in which a character was a serial killer that he was somehow representative of all americans .
this is not because i am a better person than that student , but because of america 's cultural and economic power , i had many stories of america .
i had read tyler and updike and steinbeck and gaitskill .
i did not have a single story of america .
when i learned , some years ago , that writers were expected to have had really unhappy childhoods to be successful , i began to think about how i could invent horrible things my parents had done to me .
but the truth is that i had a very happy childhood , full of laughter and love , in a very close-knit family .
but i also had grandfathers who died in refugee camps .
my cousin polle died because he could not get adequate healthcare .
one of my closest friends , okoloma , died in a plane crash because our fire trucks did not have water .
i grew up under repressive military governments that devalued education , so that sometimes my parents were not paid their salaries .
and so , as a child , i saw jam disappear from the breakfast table , then margarine disappeared , then bread became too expensive , then milk became rationed .
and most of all , a kind of normalized political fear invaded our lives .
all of these stories make me who i am .
but to insist on only these negative stories is to flatten my experience and to overlook the many other stories that formed me .
the single story creates stereotypes ,
and the problem with stereotypes is not that they are untrue , but that they are incomplete .
they make one story become the only story .
of course , africa is a continent full of catastrophes :
there are immense ones , such as the horrific rapes in congo
and depressing ones , such as the fact that 5,000 people apply for one job vacancy in nigeria .
but there are other stories that are not about catastrophe ,
and it is very important , it is just as important , to talk about them .
i 've always felt that it is impossible to engage properly with a place or a person without engaging with all of the stories of that place and that person .
the consequence of the single story is this : it robs people of dignity .
it makes our recognition of our equal humanity difficult .
it emphasizes how we are different rather than how we are similar .
so what if before my mexican trip i had followed the immigration debate from both sides , the u.s. and the mexican ?
what if my mother had told us that fide 's family was poor and hardworking ?
what if we had an african television network that broadcast diverse african stories all over the world ?
what the nigerian writer chinua achebe calls " a balance of stories . "
what if my roommate knew about my nigerian publisher , mukta bakaray , a remarkable man who left his job in a bank to follow his dream and start a publishing house ?
now , the conventional wisdom was that nigerians don 't read literature .
he disagreed . he felt that people who could read , would read , if you made literature affordable and available to them .
shortly after he published my first novel i went to a tv station in lagos to do an interview ,
and a woman who worked there as a messenger came up to me and said , " i really liked your novel . i didn 't like the ending .
now you must write a sequel , and this is what will happen ... "
and she went on to tell me what to write in the sequel .
i was not only charmed , i was very moved .
here was a woman , part of the ordinary masses of nigerians , who were not supposed to be readers .
she had not only read the book , but she had taken ownership of it and felt justified in telling me what to write in the sequel .
now , what if my roommate knew about my friend fumi onda , a fearless woman who hosts a tv show in lagos , and is determined to tell the stories that we prefer to forget ?
what if my roommate knew about the heart procedure that was performed in the lagos hospital last week ?
what if my roommate knew about contemporary nigerian music ,
talented people singing in english and pidgin , and igbo and yoruba and ijo , mixing influences from jay-z to fela to bob marley to their grandfathers .
what if my roommate knew about the female lawyer who recently went to court in nigeria to challenge a ridiculous law that required women to get their husband 's consent before renewing their passports ?
what if my roommate knew about nollywood , full of innovative people making films despite great technical odds ,
films so popular that they really are the best example of nigerians consuming what they produce ?
what if my roommate knew about my wonderfully ambitious hair braider , who has just started her own business selling hair extensions ?
or about the millions of other nigerians who start businesses and sometimes fail , but continue to nurse ambition ?
every time i am home i am confronted with the usual sources of irritation for most nigerians : our failed infrastructure , our failed government ,
but also by the incredible resilience of people who thrive despite the government , rather than because of it .
i teach writing workshops in lagos every summer ,
and it is amazing to me how many people apply , how many people are eager to write , to tell stories .
my nigerian publisher and i have just started a non-profit called farafina trust ,
and we have big dreams of building libraries and refurbishing libraries that already exist
and providing books for state schools that don 't have anything in their libraries ,
and also of organizing lots and lots of workshops , in reading and writing , for all the people who are eager to tell our many stories .
stories matter .
many stories matter .
stories have been used to dispossess and to malign ,
but stories can also be used to empower and to humanize .
stories can break the dignity of a people ,
but stories can also repair that broken dignity .
the american writer alice walker wrote this about her southern relatives who had moved to the north .
she introduced them to a book about the southern life that they had left behind :
" they sat around , reading the book themselves , listening to me read the book , and a kind of paradise was regained . "
i would like to end with this thought : that when we reject the single story , when we realize that there is never a single story about any place , we regain a kind of paradise .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / noreena _ hertz _ how _ to _ use _ experts _ and _ when _ not _ to.html
we make important decisions every day -- and we often rely on experts to help us decide . but , says economist noreena hertz , relying too much on experts can be limiting and even dangerous . she calls for us to start democratizing expertise -- to listen not only to " surgeons and ceos , but also to shop staff . "
business , choice , culture , economics
1079
noreena hertz : how to use experts -- and when not to
it 's monday morning .
in washington , the president of the united states is sitting in the oval office , assessing whether or not to strike al qaeda in yemen .
at number 10 downing street , david cameron is trying to work out whether to cut more public sector jobs in order to stave off a double-dip recession .
in madrid , maria gonzalez is standing at the door , listening to her baby crying and crying , trying to work out whether she should let it cry until it falls asleep or pick it up and hold it .
and i am sitting by my father 's bedside in hospital , trying to work out whether i should let him drink the one-and-a-half-liter bottle of water that his doctors just came in and said , " you must make him drink today , " -- my father 's been nil by mouth for a week -- or whether , by giving him this bottle , i might actually kill him .
we face momentous decisions with important consequences throughout our lives ,
and we have strategies for dealing with these decisions .
we talk things over with our friends , we scour the internet , we search through books . but still , even in this age of google and tripadvisor and amazon recommends , it 's still experts that we rely upon most -- especially when the stakes are high and the decision really matters .
because in a world of data deluge and extreme complexity , we believe that experts are more able to process information than we can -- that they are able to come to better conclusions than we could come to on our own .
and in an age that is sometimes nowadays frightening or confusing , we feel reassured by the almost parental-like authority of experts who tell us so clearly what it is we can and cannot do .
but i believe that this is a big problem , a problem with potentially dangerous consequences for us as a society , as a culture and as individuals .
it 's not that experts have not massively contributed to the world -- of course they have .
the problem lies with us : we 've become addicted to experts .
we 've become addicted to their certainty , their assuredness , their definitiveness , and in the process , we have ceded our responsibility , substituting our intellect and our intelligence for their supposed words of wisdom .
we 've surrendered our power , trading off our discomfort with uncertainty for the illusion of certainty that they provide .
this is no exaggeration .
in a recent experiment , a group of adults had their brains scanned in an mri machine as they were listening to experts speak .
the results were quite extraordinary .
as they listened to the experts ' voices , the independent decision-making parts of their brains switched off .
it literally flat-lined .
and they listened to whatever the experts said and took their advice , however right or wrong .
but experts do get things wrong .
did you know that studies show that doctors misdiagnose four times out of 10 ?
did you know that if you file your tax returns yourself , you 're statistically more likely to be filing them correctly than if you get a tax adviser to do it for you ?
and then there 's , of course , the example that we 're all too aware of : financial experts getting it so wrong that we 're living through the worst recession since the 1930s .
for the sake of our health , our wealth and our collective security , it 's imperative that we keep the independent decision-making parts of our brains switched on .
and i 'm saying this as an economist who , over the past few years , has focused my research on what it is we think and who it is we trust and why ,
but also -- and i 'm aware of the irony here -- as an expert myself , as a professor , as somebody who advises prime ministers , heads of big companies , international organizations , but an expert who believes that the role of experts needs to change , that we need to become more open-minded , more democratic and be more open to people rebelling against our points of view .
so in order to help you understand where i 'm coming from , let me bring you into my world , the world of experts .
now there are , of course , exceptions , wonderful , civilization-enhancing exceptions . but what my research has shown me is that experts tend on the whole to form very rigid camps , that within these camps , a dominant perspective emerges that often silences opposition , that experts move with the prevailing winds , often hero-worshipping their own gurus .
alan greenspan 's proclamations that the years of economic growth would go on and on , not challenged by his peers , until after the crisis , of course .
you see , we also learn that experts are located , are governed , by the social and cultural norms of their times -- whether it be the doctors in victorian england , say , who sent women to asylums for expressing sexual desire , or the psychiatrists in the united states who , up until 1973 , were still categorizing homosexuality as a mental illness .
and what all this means is that paradigms take far too long to shift , that complexity and nuance are ignored and also that money talks -- because we 've all seen the evidence of pharmaceutical companies funding studies of drugs that conveniently leave out their worst side effects , or studies funded by food companies of their new products , massively exaggerating the health benefits of the products they 're about to bring by market .
the study showed that food companies exaggerated typically seven times more than an independent study .
and we 've also got to be aware that experts , of course , also make mistakes .
they make mistakes every single day -- mistakes born out of carelessness .
a recent study in the archives of surgery reported surgeons removing healthy ovaries , operating on the wrong side of the brain , carrying out procedures on the wrong hand , elbow , eye , foot , and also mistakes born out of thinking errors .
a common thinking error of radiologists , for example -- when they look at ct scans -- is that they 're overly influenced by whatever it is that the referring physician has said that he suspects the patient 's problem to be .
so if a radiologist is looking at the scan of a patient with suspected pneumonia , say , what happens is that , if they see evidence of pneumonia on the scan , they literally stop looking at it -- thereby missing the tumor sitting three inches below on the patient 's lungs .
i 've shared with you so far some insights into the world of experts .
these are , of course , not the only insights i could share , but i hope they give you a clear sense at least of why we need to stop kowtowing to them , why we need to rebel and why we need to switch our independent decision-making capabilities on .
but how can we do this ?
well for the sake of time , i want to focus on just three strategies .
first , we 've got to be ready and willing to take experts on and dispense with this notion of them as modern-day apostles .
this doesn 't mean having to get a ph.d. in every single subject , you 'll be relieved to hear .
but it does mean persisting in the face of their inevitable annoyance when , for example , we want them to explain things to us in language that we can actually understand .
why was it that , when i had an operation , my doctor said to me , " beware , ms. hertz , of hyperpyrexia , " when he could have just as easily said , " watch out for a high fever . "
you see , being ready to take experts on is about also being willing to dig behind their graphs , their equations , their forecasts , their prophecies , and being armed with the questions to do that -- questions like : what are the assumptions that underpin this ?
what is the evidence upon which this is based ?
what has your investigation focused on ?
and what has it ignored ?
it recently came out that experts trialing drugs before they come to market typically trial drugs first , primarily on male animals and then , primarily on men .
it seems that they 've somehow overlooked the fact that over half the world 's population are women .
and women have drawn the short medical straw because it now turns out that many of these drugs don 't work nearly as well on women as they do on men -- and the drugs that do work well work so well that they 're actively harmful for women to take .
being a rebel is about recognizing that experts ' assumptions and their methodologies can easily be flawed .
second , we need to create the space for what i call " managed dissent . "
if we are to shift paradigms , if we are to make breakthroughs , if we are to destroy myths , we need to create an environment in which expert ideas are battling it out , in which we 're bringing in new , diverse , discordant , heretical views into the discussion , fearlessly , in the knowledge that progress comes about , not only from the creation of ideas , but also from their destruction -- and also from the knowledge that , by surrounding ourselves by divergent , discordant , heretical views . all the research now shows us that this actually makes us smarter .
encouraging dissent is a rebellious notion because it goes against our very instincts , which are to surround ourselves with opinions and advice that we already believe or want to be true .
and that 's why i talk about the need to actively manage dissent .
google ceo eric schmidt is a practical practitioner of this philosophy .
in meetings , he looks out for the person in the room -- arms crossed , looking a bit bemused -- and draws them into the discussion , trying to see if they indeed are the person with a different opinion , so that they have dissent within the room .
managing dissent is about recognizing the value of disagreement , discord and difference .
but we need to go even further .
we need to fundamentally redefine who it is that experts are .
the conventional notion is that experts are people with advanced degrees , fancy titles , diplomas , best-selling books -- high-status individuals .
but just imagine if we were to junk this notion of expertise as some sort of elite cadre and instead embrace the notion of democratized expertise -- whereby expertise was not just the preserve of surgeons and ceo 's , but also shop-girls -- yeah .
best buy , the consumer electronics company , gets all its employees -- the cleaners , the shop assistants , the people in the back office , not just its forecasting team -- to place bets , yes bets , on things like whether or not a product is going to sell well before christmas , on whether customers ' new ideas are going to be or should be taken on by the company , on whether a project will come in on time .
by leveraging and by embracing the expertise within the company , best buy was able to discover , for example , that the store that it was going to open in china -- its big , grand store -- was not going to open on time .
because when it asked its staff , all its staff , to place their bets on whether they thought the store would open on time or not , a group from the finance department placed all their chips on that not happening .
it turned out that they were aware , as no one else within the company was , of a technological blip that neither the forecasting experts , nor the experts on the ground in china , were even aware of .
the strategies that i have discussed this evening -- embracing dissent , taking experts on , democratizing expertise , rebellious strategies -- are strategies that i think would serve us all well to embrace as we try to deal with the challenges of these very confusing , complex , difficult times .
for if we keep our independent decision-making part of our brains switched on , if we challenge experts , if we 're skeptical , if we devolve authority , if we are rebellious , but also if we become much more comfortable with nuance , uncertainty and doubt , and if we allow our experts to express themselves using those terms too , we will set ourselves up much better for the challenges of the 21st century .
for now , more than ever , is not the time to be blindly following , blindly accepting , blindly trusting .
now is the time to face the world with eyes wide open -- yes , using experts to help us figure things out , for sure -- i don 't want to completely do myself out of a job here -- but being aware of their limitations and , of course , also our own .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / shai _ agassi _ on _ electric _ cars.html
forget about the hybrid auto -- shai agassi says it 's electric cars or bust if we want to impact emissions . his company , better place , has a radical plan to take entire countries oil-free by 2020 .
alternative energy , business , cars , energy , global issues , green , solar , technology
512
shai agassi 's bold plan for electric cars
so how would you run a whole country without oil ?
that 's the question that sort of hit me in the middle of a davos afternoon about four years ago .
it never left my brain .
and i started playing with it more like a puzzle .
the original thought i had : this must be ethanol .
so i went out and researched ethanol ,
and found out you need the amazon in your backyard in every country .
about six months later i figured out it must be hydrogen , until some scientist told me the unfortunate truth , which is , you actually use more clean electrons than the ones you get inside a car , if you use hydrogen .
so that is not going to be the path to go .
and then sort of through a process of wandering around , i got to the thought that actually if you could convert an entire country to electric cars , in a way that is convenient and affordable , you could get to a solution .
now i started this from a point of view that it has to be something that scales en masse .
not how do you build one car ,
but how do you scale this so that it can become something that is used by 99 percent of the population ?
the thought that came to mind is that it needs to be as good as any car that you would have today .
so one , it has to be more convenient than a car .
and two , it has be more affordable than today 's cars .
affordable is not a 40,000 dollar sedan , right ?
alright ? that 's not something that we can finance or buy today .
and convenient is not something that you drive for an hour and charge for eight .
so we 're bound with the laws of physics and the laws of economics .
and so the thought that i started with was how do you do this , still within the boundary of the science we know today -- no time for science fair , no time for playing around with things or waiting for the magic battery to show up .
how do you do it within the economics that we have today ?
how do you do it from the power of the consumer up ?
and not from the power of an edict down .
on a random visit to tesla on some afternoon , i actually found out that the answer comes from separating between the car ownership and the battery ownership .
in a sense if you want to think about it this is the classic " batteries not included . "
now if you separate between the two , you could actually answer the need for a convenient car by creating a network , by creating a network before the cars show up .
the network has two components in them .
first component is you charge the car whenever you stop --
ends up that cars are these strange beasts that drive for about two hours and park for about 22 hours .
if you drive a car in the morning and drive it back in the afternoon the ratio of charge to drive is about a minute for a minute .
and so the first thought that came to mind is , everywhere we park we have electric power .
now it sounds crazy . but in some places around the world , like scandinavia , you already have that .
if you park your car and didn 't plug in the heater , when you come back you don 't have a car . it just doesn 't work .
now that last mile , last foot , in a sense , is the first step of the infrastructure .
the second step of the infrastructure needs to take care of the range extension .
see we 're bound by today 's technology on batteries , which is about 120 miles if you want to stay within reasonable space and weight limitations .
120 miles is a good enough range for a lot of people .
but you never want to get stuck .
so what we added is a second element to our network , which is a battery swap system .
you drive . you take your depleted battery out .
a full battery comes on . and you drive on .
you don 't do it as a human being . you do it as a machine .
it looks like a car wash . you come into your car wash .
and a plate comes up , holds your battery , takes it out , puts it back in , and
within two minutes you 're back on the road
and you can go again .
if you had charge spots everywhere , and you had battery swap stations everywhere , how often would you do it ? and it ends up that you 'd do swapping less times than you stop at a gas station .
as a matter of fact , we added to the contract .
we said that if you stop to swap your battery more than 50 times a year we start paying you money because it 's an inconvenience .
then we looked at the question of the affordability .
we looked at the question , what happens when the battery is disconnected from the car .
what is the cost of that battery ?
everybody tells us batteries are so expensive .
what we found out , when you move from molecules to electrons , something interesting happens .
we can go back to the original economics of the car and look at it again .
the battery is not the gas tank , in a sense .
remember in your car you have a gas tank .
you have the crude oil .
and you have refining and delivery of that crude oil as what we call petrol or gasoline .
the battery in this sense , is the crude oil .
we have a battery bay . it costs the same hundred dollars as the gas tank .
but the crude oil is replaced with a battery . just it doesn 't burn . it consumes itself
step after step after step .
it has 2,000 life cycles these days .
and so it 's sort of a mini well .
we were asked in the past when we bought an electric car to pay for the entire well , for the life of the car .
nobody wants to buy a mini well when they buy a car .
in a sense what we 've done is we 've created a new consumable .
you , today , buy gasoline miles .
and we created electric miles .
and the price of electric miles ends up being a very interesting number .
today 2010 , in volume , when we come to market , it is eight cents a mile .
those of you who have a hard time calculating what that means -- in the average consumer
environment we 're in in the u.s .
20 miles per gallon that 's a buck 50 , a buck 60 a gallon .
that 's cheaper than today 's gasoline , even in the u.s .
in europe where taxes are in place , that 's the equivalent to a minus 60 dollar barrel .
but e-miles follow moore 's law .
they go from eight cents a mile in 2010 , to four cents a mile in 2015 , to two cents a mile by 2020 .
why ? because batteries life cycle improve -- a bit of improvement on energy density , which reduces the price .
and these prices are actually with clean electrons .
we do not use any electrons that come from coal .
so in a sense this is an absolute zero-carbon , zero-fossil fuel electric mile at two cents a mile by 2020 .
now even if we get to 40 miles per gallon by 2020 , which is our desire .
imagine only 40 miles per gallon cars would be on the road .
that is an 80 cent gallon .
an 80 cent gallon means , if the entire pacific would convert to crude oil , and we 'd let any oil company bring it out and refine it , they still can 't compete with two cents a mile .
that 's a new economic factor , which is fascinating to most people .
now this would have been a wonderful paper .
that 's how i solved it in my head . it was a white paper i handed out to governments .
and some governments told me that it 's fascinating that the younger generation actually thinks about these things .
until i got to the true young global leader , shimon peres , president of israel ,
and he ran a beautiful manipulation on me .
first he let me go to the prime minister of the country ,
who told me , if you can find the money you need for this network , 200 million dollars , and if you can find a car company that will build that car in mass volume , in two million cars -- that 's what we needed in israel --
i 'll give you country to invest the 200 million into .
peres thought that was a great idea .
so we went out , and we looked at all the car companies .
we sent letters to all the car companies .
three of them never showed up . one of them asked us
if we would stay with hybrids and they would give us a discount .
but one of them carlos ghosn , ceo of renault and nissan , when asked about hybrids said something very fascinating .
he said hybrids are like mermaids .
when you want a fish you get a woman and when you need a woman you get a fish .
and ghosn came up and said , " i have the car , mr. peres ; i will build you the cars . "
and actually true to form , renault has put a billion and a half dollars in building nine different types of cars that fit this kind of model that will come into the market in mass volume -- mass volume being the first year , 100 thousand cars .
it 's the first mass-volume electric car ,
zero-emission electric car in the market .
i was running , as chris said , to be the ceo of a large software company called sap and then peres said , " well won 't you run this project ? "
and i said , " i 'm ready for ceo " and he said , " oh no no no no no . you 've got to explain to me , what is more important than saving your country and saving the world , that you would go and do ? "
and i had to quit and come and do this thing called a better place .
we then decided to scale it up .
we went to other countries . as i said we went to denmark .
and denmark set this beautiful policy ; it 's called the iq test .
it 's inversely proportional to taxes .
they put 180 percent tax on gasoline cars
and zero tax on zero-emission cars .
so if you want to buy a gasoline car in denmark , it costs you about 60,000 euros .
if you buy our car it 's about 20,000 euros .
if you fail the iq test they ask you to leave the country .
we then were sort of coined as the guys who run only in small islands .
i know most people don 't think of israel as a small island ,
but israel is an island -- it 's a transportation island .
if your car is driving outside israel it 's been stolen .
if you 're thinking about it in terms of islands , we decided to go to the biggest island that we could find ,
and that was australia . the third country we announced was australia .
it 's got three centers -- in brisbane , in melbourne , in sydney -- and one freeway , one electric freeway that connects them .
the next island was not too hard to find , and that was hawaii .
we decided to come into the u.s. and pick the two best places -- the one where you didn 't need any range extension .
hawaii you can drive around the island on one battery .
and if you really have a long day you can switch , and keep on driving around the island .
the second one was the san francisco bay area
where gavin newsom created a beautiful policy across all the mayors .
he decided that he 's going to take over the state , unofficially , and then officially ,
and then created this beautiful region one policy .
in the san francisco bay area not only do you have the highest concentration of priuses , but you also have the perfect range extender .
it 's called the other car .
as we stared scaling it up we looked at what is the problem to come up to the u.s. ?
why is this a big issue ?
and the most fascinating thing we 've learned is that , when you have small problems on the individual level , like the price of gasoline to drive every morning .
you don 't notice it , but when the aggregate comes up you 're dead . alright ?
so the price of oil , much like lots of other curves that we 've seen , goes along a depletion curve .
the foundation of this curve is that we keep losing the wells that are close to the ground .
and we keep getting wells that are farther away from the ground .
it becomes more and more and more expensive to dig them out .
you think , well it 's been up , it 's been down , its been up , it 's going to keep on going up and down .
here is the problem : at 147 dollars a barrel , which we were in six months ago , the u.s. spent a ton of money to get oil .
then we lost our economy and we went back down to 47 --
sometimes it 's 40 , sometimes it 's 50 .
now we 're running a stimulus package .
it 's called the trillion-dollar stimulus package .
we 're going to revive the economy . hopefully it happens between now and 2015 , somewhere in that space .
what happens when the economy recovers ?
by 2015 we would have had at least 250 million new cars even at the pace we 're going at right now .
that 's another 30 percent demand on oil .
that is another 25 million barrels a day .
that 's all the u.s. usage today .
in other words at some point when we 've recovered we go up to the peak .
and then we do the opec stimulus package also known as 200 dollars a barrel .
we take our money and we give it away .
you know what happens at that point ?
we go back down . it 's going to go up and down .
and the downs are going to be much longer
and the ups are going to be much shorter .
and that 's the difference between problems that are additive , like co2 , which we go slowly up and then we tip , and problems that are depletive , in which we lose what we have , which oscillate , and they oscillate until we lose everything we 've got .
now we actually looked at what the answer would be .
right ? remember in the campaign : one million hybrid cars by 2015 .
that is 0.5 percent of the u.s. oil consumption .
that is oh point oh well percent of the rest of the world .
that won 't do much difference .
we looked at an mit study : ten million electric cars on the global roads .
ten million out of 500 million we will add between now and then .
that is the most pessimistic number you can have .
it 's also the most optimistic number
because it means we will scale this industry from 100 thousand cars is 2011 , to 10 million cars by 2016 -- 100 x growth in less than five years .
you have to remember that the world today is bringing in so many cars .
we have 10 million cars by region .
that 's an enormous amount of cars .
china is adding those cars -- india , russia , brazil .
we have all these regions .
europe has solved it . they just put a tax on gasoline .
they 'll be the first in line to get off
because their prices are high .
china solves it by an edict . at some point they 'll just declare that no gasoline car will come into a city , and that will be it .
the indians don 't even understand why we think of it as a problem because most people in india fill two or three gallons every time .
for them to get a battery that goes 120 miles is an extension on range , not a reduction in range .
we 're the only ones who don 't have the price set right .
we don 't have the industry set right .
we don 't have any incentive to go and resolve it across the u.s .
now where is the car industry on that ?
very interesting . the car industry has been focused just on themselves .
they basically looked at it and said , " car 1.0 we 'll solve everything within the car itself . "
no infrastructure , no problem .
we forgot about the entire chain around us .
all this stuff that happens around .
we are looking at the emergence of a car 2.0 -- a whole new market , a whole new business model .
the business model in which the money that is actually coming in , to drive the car -- the minutes , the miles if you want , that you are all familiar with -- subsidize the price of the car , just like cellphones . you 'll pay for the miles .
and some of it will go back to the car maker .
some of it will go back to your own pocket .
but our cars are actually going to be cheaper than gasoline cars .
you 're looking at a world where cars are matched with windmills .
in denmark , we will drive all the cars in denmark from windmills , not from oil .
in israel , we 've asked to put a solar farm in the south of israel .
and people said , " oh that 's a very very large space that you 're asking for . "
and we said , " what if we had proven that in the same space we found oil for the country for the next hundred years ? "
and they said , " we tried . there isn 't any . "
we said , " no no , but what if we prove it ? "
and they said , " well you can dig . " and we decided to dig up ,
instead of digging down .
these are perfect matches to one another .
now all you need is about 10 percent of the electricity generated .
think of it as a project that spans over about 10 years .
that 's one percent a year .
now when we 're looking at solving big problems , we need to start thinking in two numbers .
and those are not 20 percent by 2020 .
the two numbers are zero -- as in zero footprint or zero oil --
and scale it infinity .
and when we go to cop15 at the end of this year
we can 't stop thinking of padding co2 .
we have to start thinking about giving kickers to countries that are willing to go to this kind of scale .
one car emits four tons .
and actually 700 and change million cars today emit 2.8 billion tons of co2 .
that 's , in the additive , about 25 percent of our problem .
cars and trucks add up to about 25 percent of the world 's co2 emissions .
we have to come and attack this problem with a focus , with an effort that actually says , we 're going to go to zero before the world ends .
i actually shared that with some legislators here in the u.s .
i shared it with a gentleman called bobby kennedy jr . , who is one of my idols .
i told him one of the reasons that his uncle was remembered is because he said we 're going to send a man to the moon , and we 'll do it by the end of the decade .
we didn 't say we 're going to send a man 20 percent to the moon .
and there will be about a 20 percent chance we 'll recover him .
he actually shared with me another story , which is from about 200 years ago .
200 years ago , in parliament , in great britain , there was a long argument
over economy versus morality .
25 percent -- just like 25 percent emissions today comes from cars --
25 percent of their energy for the entire industrial world in the u.k. came from a source of energy that was immoral : human slaves .
and there was an argument . should we stop using slaves ?
and what would it do to our economy ?
and people said , " well we need to take time to do it .
let 's not do it immediately . maybe we free the kids
and keep the slaves .
and after a month of arguments they decided to stop slavery ,
and the industrial revolution started within less than one year .
and the u.k. had 100 years of economic growth .
we have to make the right moral decision .
we have to make it immediately .
we need to have presidential leadership
just like we had in israel that said we will end oil .
and we need to do it not within 20 years or 50 years , but within this presidential term
because if we don 't , we will lose our economy , right after we 'd lost our morality .
thank you all very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / richard _ dawkins _ on _ militant _ atheism.html
richard dawkins urges all atheists to openly state their position -- and to fight the incursion of the church into politics and science . a fiery , funny , powerful talk .
god , atheism , culture , politics , religion , science
113
richard dawkins on militant atheism
that splendid music , the coming-in music -- " the elephant march " from " aida " -- is the music i 've chosen for my funeral -- -- and you can see why . it 's triumphal .
i won 't feel anything , but if i could , i would feel triumphal at having lived at all , and at having lived on this splendid planet , and having been given the opportunity to understand something about why i was here in the first place , before not being here .
can you understand my quaint english accent ?
like everybody else , i was entranced yesterday by the animal session .
robert full and frans lanting and others -- the beauty of the things they showed .
the only slight jarring note was when jeffrey katzenberg said of the mustang , " the most splendid creatures that god put on this earth . " now of course , we know that he didn 't really mean that , but in this country at the moment , you can 't be too careful .
i 'm a biologist , and the central theorem of our subject : the theory of design , darwin 's theory of evolution by natural selection .
in professional circles everywhere , it 's of course universally accepted .
in non-professional circles outside america , it 's largely ignored .
but in non-professional circles within america , it arouses so much hostility -- -- that it 's fair to say that american biologists are in a state of war .
the war is so worrying at present , with court cases coming up in one state after another , that i felt i had to say something about it .
if you want to know what i have to say about darwinism itself , i 'm afraid you 're going to have to look at my books , which you won 't find in the bookstore outside .
contemporary court cases often concern an allegedly new version of creationism , called " intelligent design , " or id .
don 't be fooled . there 's nothing new about id .
it 's just creationism under another name , rechristened -- i choose the word advisedly -- -- for tactical , political reasons .
the arguments of so-called id theorists are the same old arguments that had been refuted again and again , since darwin down to the present day .
there is an effective evolution lobby coordinating the fight on behalf of science , and i try to do all i can to help them , but they get quite upset when people like me dare to mention that we happen to be atheists as well as evolutionists .
they see us as rocking the boat , and you can understand why .
creationists , lacking any coherent scientific argument for their case , fall back on the popular phobia against atheism .
teach your children evolution in biology class , and they 'll soon move on to drugs , grand larceny and sexual pre-version .
in fact , of course , educated theologians from the pope down are firm in their support of evolution .
this book , " finding darwin 's god , " by kenneth miller , is one of the most effective attacks on intelligent design that i know , and it 's all the more effective because it 's written by a devout christian .
people like kenneth miller could be called a " godsend " to the evolution lobby -- -- because they expose the lie that evolutionism is , as a matter of fact , tantamount to atheism . people like me , on the other hand , rock the boat .
but here , i want to say something nice about creationists .
it 's not a thing i often do , so listen carefully .
i think they 're right about one thing .
i think they 're right that evolution is fundamentally hostile to religion .
i 've already said that many individual evolutionists , like the pope , are also religious , but i think they 're deluding themselves .
i believe a true understanding of darwinism is deeply corrosive to religious faith .
now , it may sound as though i 'm about to preach atheism , and i want to reassure you that that 's not what i 'm going to do .
in an audience as sophisticated as this one , that would be preaching to the choir .
no , what i want to urge upon you --
-- instead what i want to urge upon you is militant atheism .
but that 's putting it too negatively .
if i was a person who were interested in preserving religious faith , i would be very afraid of the positive power of evolutionary science , and indeed science generally , but evolution in particular , to inspire and enthrall , precisely because it is atheistic .
now , the difficult problem for any theory of biological design is to explain the massive statistical improbability of living things .
statistical improbability in the direction of good design -- " complexity " is another word for this .
the standard creationist argument -- there is only one ; they all reduce to this one -- takes off from a statistical improbability .
living creatures are too complex to have come about by chance ; therefore , they must have had a designer .
this argument of course , shoots itself in the foot .
any designer capable of designing something really complex has to be even more complex himself , and that 's before we even start on the other things he 's expected to do , like forgive sins , bless marriages , listen to prayers --
favor our side in a war --
-- disapprove of our sex lives and so on .
complexity is the problem that any theory of biology has to solve , and you can 't solve it by postulating an agent that is even more complex , thereby simply compounding the problem .
darwinian natural selection is so stunningly elegant because it solves the problem of explaining complexity in terms of nothing but simplicity .
essentially , it does it by providing a smooth ramp of gradual step-by-step increment .
but here , i only want to make the point that the elegance of darwinism is corrosive to religion precisely because it is so elegant , so parsimonious , so powerful , so economically powerful .
it has the sinewy economy of a beautiful suspension bridge .
the god theory is not just a bad theory .
it turns out to be , in principle , incapable of doing the job required of it .
so , returning to tactics and the evolution lobby , i want to argue that rocking the boat may be just the right thing to do .
my approach to attacking creationism is unlike the evolution lobby .
my approach to attacking creationism is to attack religion as a whole , and at this point i need to acknowledge the remarkable taboo against speaking ill of religion ,
and i 'm going to do so in the words of the late douglas adams , a dear friend who , if he never came to ted , certainly should have been invited .
richard dawkins : he was . good . i thought he must have been .
he begins this speech which was tape-recorded in cambridge shortly before he died .
he begins by explaining how science works through the testing of hypotheses that are framed to be vulnerable to disproof , and then he goes on .
i quote , " religion doesn 't seem to work like that .
it has certain ideas at the heart of it , which we call ' sacred ' or ' holy . ' what it means is : here is an idea or a notion that you 're not allowed to say anything bad about .
you 're just not . why not ? because you 're not .
why should it be that it 's perfectly legitimate to support the republicans or democrats , this model of economics versus that , macintosh instead of windows , but to have an opinion about how the universe began , about who created the universe -- no , that 's holy .
so , we 're used to not challenging religious ideas and it 's very interesting how much of a furor richard creates when he does it . " he meant me , not that one .
" everybody gets absolutely frantic about it , because you 're not allowed to say these things , yet when you look at it rationally , there is no reason why those ideas shouldn 't be as open to debate as any other , except that we 've agreed somehow between us that they shouldn 't be . " and that 's the end of the quote from douglas .
in my view , not only is science corrosive to religion ; religion is corrosive to science .
it teaches people to be satisfied with trivial , supernatural non-explanations and blinds them to the wonderful real explanations that we have within our grasp .
it teaches them to accept authority , revelation and faith instead of always insisting on evidence .
there 's douglas adams , magnificent picture from his book , " last chance to see . "
now , there 's a typical scientific journal , the quarterly review of biology .
and i 'm going to put together , as guest editor , a special issue on the question , " did an asteroid kill the dinosaurs ? "
and the first paper is a standard scientific paper presenting evidence , " iridium layer at the k-t boundary , potassium-argon dated crater in yucatan , indicate that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs . "
perfectly ordinary scientific paper .
now , the next one , " the president of the royal society has been vouchsafed a strong inner conviction " -- -- ... " that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs . "
" it has been privately revealed to professor huxtane that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs . "
" professor hordley was brought up to have total and unquestioning faith " -- -- ... " that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs . "
" professor hawkins has promulgated an official dogma binding on all loyal hawkinsians that an asteroid killed the dinosaurs . "
that 's inconceivable , of course .
but suppose --
-- in 1987 , a reporter asked george bush , sr. whether he recognized the equal citizenship and patriotism of americans who are atheists .
mr. bush 's reply has become infamous .
" no , i don 't know that atheists should be considered citizens , nor should they be considered patriots .
this is one nation under god . " bush 's bigotry was not an isolated mistake , blurted out in the heat of the moment and later retracted .
he stood by it in the face of repeated calls for clarification or withdrawal .
he really meant it .
more to the point , he knew it posed no threat to his election , quite the contrary .
democrats as well as republicans parade their religiousness if they want to get elected . both parties invoke " one nation under god . "
what would thomas jefferson have said ?
incidentally , i 'm not usually very proud of being british , but you can 't help making the comparison .
in practice , what is an atheist ?
an atheist is just somebody who feels about yahweh the way any decent christian feels about thor or baal or the golden calf .
as has been said before , we are all atheists about most of the gods that humanity has ever believed in . some of us just go one god further .
and however we define atheism , it 's surely the kind of academic belief that a person is entitled to hold without being vilified as an unpatriotic , unelectable non-citizen .
nevertheless , it 's an undeniable fact that to own up to being an atheist is tantamount to introducing yourself as mr. hitler or miss beelzebub .
and that all stems from the perception of atheists as some kind of weird , way-out minority .
natalie angier wrote a rather sad piece in the new yorker , saying how lonely she felt as an atheist .
she clearly feels in a beleaguered minority , but actually , how do american atheists stack up numerically ?
the latest survey makes surprisingly encouraging reading .
christianity , of course , takes a massive lion 's share of the population , with nearly 160 million .
but what would you think was the second largest group , convincingly outnumbering jews with 2.8 million , muslims at 1.1 million , and hindus , buddhists and all other religions put together ?
the second largest group , of nearly 30 million , is the one described as non-religious or secular .
you can 't help wondering why vote-seeking politicians are so proverbially overawed by the power of , for example , the jewish lobby .
the state of israel seems to owe its very existence to the american jewish vote , while at the same time consigning the non-religious to political oblivion .
this secular non-religious vote , if properly mobilized , is nine times as numerous as the jewish vote .
why does this far more substantial minority not make a move to exercise its political muscle ?
well , so much for quantity . how about quality ?
is there any correlation , positive or negative , between intelligence and tendency to be religious ?
the survey that i quoted , which is the aris survey , didn 't break down its data by socio-economic class or education , iq or anything else .
but a recent article by paul g. bell in the mensa magazine provides some straws in the wind .
mensa , as you know , is an international organization for people with very high iq .
and from a meta-analysis of the literature , bell concludes that , i quote , " of 43 studies carried out since 1927 on the relationship between religious belief and one 's intelligence or educational level , all but four found an inverse connection .
that is , the higher one 's intelligence or educational level , the less one is likely to be religious . "
well , i haven 't seen the original 42 studies and i can 't comment on that meta-anaysis but i would like to see more studies done along those lines .
and i know that there are , if i could put a little plug here , there are people in this audience easily capable of financing a massive research survey to settle the question , and i put the suggestion up -- for what it 's worth .
but let me know show you some data that have been properly published and analyzed on one special group , namely , top scientists .
in 1998 , larson and witham polled the cream of american scientists , those who 'd been honored by election to the national academy of sciences , and among this select group , belief in a personal god dropped to a shattering seven percent .
about 20 percent are agnostic , and the rest could fairly be called atheists .
similar figures obtained for belief in personal immortality .
among biological scientists , the figures are even lower : 5.5 percent , only , believe in god . physical scientists : it 's 7.5 percent .
i 've not seen corresponding figures for elite scholars in other fields , such history or philosophy , but i 'd be surprised if they were different .
so , we 've reached a truly remarkable situation , a grotesque mismatch between the american intelligentsia and the american electorate .
a philosophical opinion about the nature of the universe , which is held by the vast majority of top american scientists and probably the majority of the intelligentsia generally , is so abhorrent to the american electorate that no candidate for popular election dare affirm it in public .
if i 'm right , this means that high office in the greatest country in the world is barred to the very people best qualified to hold it -- the intelligentsia -- unless they are prepared to lie about their beliefs .
to put it bluntly , american political opportunities are heavily loaded against those who are simultaneously intelligent and honest .
i 'm not a citizen of this country , so i hope it won 't be thought unbecoming if i suggest that something needs to be done .
and i 've already hinted what that something is .
from what i 've seen of ted , i think this may be the ideal place to launch it .
again , i fear it will cost money .
we need a consciousness-raising , coming-out campaign for american atheists .
this could be similar to the campaign organized by homosexuals a few years ago , although heaven forbid that we should stoop to public outing of people against their will .
in most cases , people who out themselves will help to destroy the myth that there is something wrong with atheists .
on the contrary , they 'll demonstrate that atheists are often the kinds of people that could serve as decent role models for your children ,
the kinds of people an advertising agent could use to recommend a product ,
the kinds of people who are sitting in this room .
there should be a snowball effect , a positive feedback , such that the more names we have , the more we get .
there could be non-linearities , threshold effects .
when a critical mass has been attained , there 's an abrupt acceleration in recruitment .
and again , it will need money .
i suspect that the word " atheist " itself contains or remains a stumbling block far out of proportion to what it actually means , and a stumbling block to people who otherwise might be happy to out themselves .
so , what other words might be used to smooth the path , oil the wheels , sugar the pill ? darwin himself preferred " agnostic " -- and not only out of loyalty to his friend huxley , who coined the term .
darwin said , " i have never been an atheist in the same sense of denying the existence of a god .
i think that generally an ' agnostic ' would be the most correct description of my state of mind . "
he even became uncharacteristically tetchy with edward aveling .
aveling was a militant atheist who failed to persuade darwin to accept the dedication of his book on atheism -- incidentally , giving rise to a fascinating myth that karl marx tried to dedicate " das kapital " to darwin , which he didn 't . it was actually edward aveling .
what happened was that aveling 's mistress was marx 's daughter , and when both darwin and marx were dead , marx 's papers became muddled up with aveling 's papers and a letter from darwin saying , " my dear sir , thank you very much but i don 't want you to dedicate your book to me , " was mistakenly supposed to be addressed to marx , and that gave rise to this whole myth , which you 've probably heard .
it 's a sort of urban myth , that marx tried to dedicate " kapital " to darwin .
anyway , it was aveling , and when they met , darwin challenged aveling , " why do you call yourselves atheists ? "
" ' agnostic , ' " retorted aveling , " was simply ' atheist ' writ respectable , and ' atheist ' was simply ' agnostic ' writ aggressive . "
darwin complained , " but why should you be so aggressive ? "
darwin thought that atheism might be well and good for the intelligentsia , but that ordinary people were not , quote , " ripe for it . "
which is , of course , our old friend , the " don 't rock the boat " argument .
it 's not recorded whether aveling told darwin to come down off his high horse .
but in any case , that was more than 100 years ago . you think we might have grown up since then .
now , a friend , an intelligent lapsed jew , who incidentally observed the sabbath for reasons of cultural solidarity , describes himself as a " tooth fairy agnostic . "
he won 't call himself an atheist because it 's , in principle , impossible to prove a negative , but agnostic on its own might suggest that god 's existence was therefore on equal terms of likelihood as his non-existence .
so , my friend is strictly agnostic about the tooth fairy , but it isn 't very likely , is it ? like god .
hence the phrase , " tooth fairy agnostic . " bertrand russell made the same point using a hypothetical teapot in orbit about mars .
you would strictly have to be agnostic about whether there is a teapot in orbit about mars , but that doesn 't mean you treat the likelihood of its existence as on all fours with its non-existence .
the list of things which we strictly have to be agnostic about doesn 't stop at tooth fairies and teapots . it 's infinite .
if you want to believe one particular one of them -- unicorns or tooth fairies or teapots or yahweh -- the onus is on you to say why .
the onus is not on the rest of us to say why not .
we , who are atheists , are also a-fairiests and a-teapotists .
but we don 't bother to say so , and this is why my friend uses " tooth fairy agnostic " as a label for what most people would call atheist .
nonetheless , if we want to attract deep down atheists to come out publicly , we 're going to have find something better to stick on our banner than " tooth fairy " or " teapot agnostic . "
so , how about " humanist " ?
this has the advantage of a worldwide network of well-organized associations and journals and things already in place .
my problem with it only is its apparent anthropocentrism .
one of the things we 've learned from darwin is that the human species is only one among millions of cousins , some close , some distant .
and there are other possibilities like " naturalist , "
but that also has problems of confusion , because darwin would have thought naturalist -- " naturalist " means , of course , as opposed to " supernaturalist " --
and it is used sometimes --
darwin would have been confused by the other sense of " naturalist , " which he was , of course , and i suppose there might be others who would confuse it with nudism .
such people might be those belonging to the british lynch mob which last year attacked a pediatrician in mistake for a pedophile .
i think the best of the available alternatives for " atheist " is simply " non-theist . "
it lacks the strong connotation that there 's definitely no god , and it could therefore easily be embraced by teapot or tooth fairy agnostics .
it 's completely compatible with the god of the physicists .
when atheists like stephen hawking and albert einstein use the word " god , " they use it of course as a metaphorical shorthand for that deep , mysterious part of physics which we don 't yet understand .
" non-theist " will do for all that , yet unlike " atheist , " it doesn 't have the same phobic , hysterical responses .
but i think , actually , the alternative is to grasp the nettle of the word " atheism " itself , precisely because it is a taboo word carrying frissons of hysterical phobia .
critical mass may be harder to achieve with the word " atheist " than with the word " non-theist , " or some other non-confrontational word .
but if we did achieve it with that dread word -- " atheist " itself -- the political impact would be even greater .
now , i said that if i were religious , i 'd be very afraid of evolution . i 'd go further .
i would fear science in general if properly understood .
and this is because the scientific worldview is so much more exciting , more poetic , more filled with sheer wonder than anything in the poverty-stricken arsenals of the religious imagination .
as carl sagan , another recently dead hero , put it , " how is it that hardly any major religion has looked at science and concluded , ' this is better than we thought !
the universe is much bigger than our prophet said , grander , more subtle , more elegant ? ' instead they say , ' no , no , no !
my god is a little god , and i want him to stay that way . '
a religion , old or new , that stressed the magnificence of the universe as revealed by modern science might be able to draw forth reserves of reverence and awe hardly tapped by the conventional faiths . "
now , this is an elite audience , and i would therefore expect about 10 percent of you to be religious .
many of you probably subscribe to our polite cultural belief that we should respect religion , but i also suspect that a fair number of those secretly despise religion as much as i do .
if you 're one of them , and of course many of you may not be , but if you are one of them , i 'm asking you to stop being polite , come out and say so , and if you happen to be rich , give some thought to ways in which you might make a difference .
the religious lobby in this country is massively financed by foundations -- to say nothing of all the tax benefits -- by foundations such as the templeton foundation and the discovery institute .
we need an anti-templeton to step forward .
if my books sold as well as stephen hawking 's books , instead of only as well as richard dawkins ' books , i 'd do it myself .
people are always going on about , " how did september the 11th change you ? "
well , here 's how it changed me .
let 's all stop being so damned respectful .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / ngozi _ okonjo _ iweala _ on _ doing _ business _ in _ africa.html
we know the negative images of africa -- famine and disease , conflict and corruption . but , says ngozi okonjo-iweala , there 's another , less-told story happening in many african nations : one of reform , economic growth and business opportunity .
africa , featured , business , corruption , global issues , investment , women
127
ngozi okonjo-iweala : want to help africa ? do business here
thank you very much , chris . everybody who came up here said they were scared . i don 't know if i 'm scared , but this is my first time of addressing an audience like this .
and i don 't have any smart technology for you to look at .
there are no slides , so you 'll just have to be content with me .
what i want to do this morning is share with you a couple of stories and talk about a different africa .
already this morning there were some allusions to the africa that you hear about all the time : the africa of hiv / aids , the africa of malaria , the africa of poverty , the africa of conflict , and the africa of disasters .
while it is true that those things are going on , there 's an africa that you don 't hear about very much .
and sometimes i 'm puzzled , and i ask myself why .
this is the africa that is changing , that chris alluded to .
this is the africa of opportunity .
this is the africa where people want to take charge of their own futures and their own destinies .
and this is the africa where people are looking for partnerships to do this . that 's what i want to talk about today .
and i want to start by telling you a story about that change in africa .
on 15th of september 2005 , mr. diepreye alamieyeseigha , a governor of one of the oil-rich states of nigeria , was arrested by the london metropolitan police on a visit to london .
he was arrested because there were transfers of eight million dollars that went into some dormant accounts that belonged to him and his family .
this arrest occurred because there was cooperation between the london metropolitan police and the economic and financial crimes commission of nigeria -- led by one of our most able and courageous people : mr. nuhu ribadu .
alamieyeseigha was arraigned in london .
due to some slip-ups , he managed to escape dressed as a woman and ran from london back to nigeria where , according to our constitution , those in office as governors , president -- as in many countries -- have immunity and cannot be prosecuted . but what happened : people were so outraged by this behavior that it was possible for his state legislature to impeach him and get him out of office .
today , alams -- as we call him for short -- is in jail .
this is a story about the fact that people in africa are no longer willing to tolerate corruption from their leaders .
this is a story about the fact that people want their resources managed properly for their good , and not taken out to places where they 'll benefit just a few of the elite .
and therefore , when you hear about the corrupt africa -- corruption all the time -- i want you to know that the people and the governments are trying hard to fight this in some of the countries , and that some successes are emerging .
does it mean the problem is over ? the answer is no .
there 's still a long way to go , but that there 's a will there .
and that successes are being chalked up on this very important fight .
so when you hear about corruption , don 't just feel that nothing is being done about this -- that you can 't operate in any african country because of the overwhelming corruption . that is not the case .
there 's a will to fight , and in many countries , that fight is ongoing and is being won . in others , like mine , where there has been a long history of dictatorship in nigeria , the fight is ongoing and we have a long way to go .
but the truth of the matter is that this is going on .
the results are showing : independent monitoring by the world bank and other organizations show that in many instances the trend is downwards in terms of corruption , and governance is improving .
a study by the economic commission for africa showed a clear trend upwards in governance in 28 african countries .
and let me say just one more thing before i leave this area of governance .
that is that people talk about corruption , corruption .
all the time when they talk about it you immediately think about africa .
that 's the image : african countries . but let me say this : if alams was able to export eight million dollars into an account in london -- if the other people who had taken money , estimated at 20 to 40 billion now of developing countries ' monies sitting abroad in the developed countries -- if they 're able to do this , what is that ? is that not corruption ?
in this country , if you receive stolen goods , are you not prosecuted ?
so when we talk about this kind of corruption , let us also think about what is happening on the other side of the globe -- where the money 's going and what can be done to stop it .
i 'm working on an initiative now , along with the world bank , on asset recovery , trying to do what we can to get the monies that have been taken abroad -- developing countries ' moneys -- to get that sent back .
because if we can get the 20 billion dollars sitting out there back , it may be far more for some of these countries than all the aid that is being put together .
the second thing i want to talk about is the will for reform .
africans , after -- they 're tired , we 're tired of being the subject of everybody 's charity and care .
we are grateful , but we know that we can take charge of our own destinies if we have the will to reform .
and what is happening in many african countries now is a realization that no one can do it but us . we have to do it .
we can invite partners who can support us , but we have to start .
we have to reform our economies , change our leadership , become more democratic , be more open to change and to information .
and this is what we started to do in one of the largest countries on the continent , nigeria .
in fact , if you 're not in nigeria , you 're not in africa .
i want to tell you that .
one in four sub-saharan africans is nigerian , and it has 140 million dynamic people -- chaotic people -- but very interesting people . you 'll never be bored .
what we started to do was to realize that we had to take charge and reform ourselves .
and with the support of a leader who was willing , at the time , to do the reforms , we put forward a comprehensive reform program , which we developed ourselves .
not the international monetary fund . not the world bank , where i worked for 21 years and rose to be a vice president .
no one can do it for you . you have to do it for yourself .
we put together a program that would , one : get the state out of businesses it had nothing -- it had no business being in .
the state should not be in the business of producing goods and services because it 's inefficient and incompetent .
so we decided to privatize many of our enterprises .
we -- as a result , we decided to liberalize many of our markets .
can you believe that prior to this reform -- which started at the end of 2003 , when i left washington to go and take up the post of finance minister -- we had a telecommunications company that was only able to develop 4,500 landlines in its entire 30-year history ?
having a telephone in my country was a huge luxury .
you couldn 't get it . you had to bribe .
you had to do everything to get your phone .
when president obasanjo supported and launched the liberalization of the telecommunications sector , we went from 4,500 landlines to 32 million gsm lines , and counting .
nigeria 's telecoms market is the second-fastest growing in the world , after china . we are getting investments of about a billion dollars a year in telecoms . and nobody knows , except a few smart people .
the smartest one , first to come in , was the mtn company of south africa .
and in the three years that i was finance minister , they made an average of 360 million dollars profit per year .
360 million in a market -- in a country that is a poor country , with an average per capita income just under 500 dollars per capita .
so the market is there .
when they kept this under wraps , but soon others got to know .
nigerians themselves began to develop some wireless telecommunications companies , and three or four others have come in .
but there 's a huge market out there , and people don 't know about it , or they don 't want to know .
so privatization is one of the things we 've done .
the other thing we 've also done is to manage our finances better .
because nobody 's going to help you and support you if you 're not managing your own finances well .
and nigeria , with the oil sector , had the reputation of being corrupt and not managing its own public finances well .
so what did we try to do ? we introduced a fiscal rule that de-linked our budget from the oil price .
before we used to just budget on whatever oil we bring in , because oil is the biggest , most revenue-earning sector in the economy : 70 percent of our revenues come from oil .
we de-linked that , and once we did it , we began to budget at a price slightly lower than the oil price and save whatever was above that price .
we didn 't know we could pull it off ; it was very controversial .
but what it immediately did was that the volatility that had been present in terms of our economic development -- where , even if oil prices were high , we would grow very fast .
when they crashed , we crashed .
and we could hardly even pay anything , any salaries , in the economy .
that smoothened out . we were able to save , just before i left , 27 billion dollars . whereas -- and this went to our reserves -- when i arrived in 2003 , we had seven billion dollars in reserves .
by the time i left , we had gone up to almost 30 billion dollars . and as we speak now , we have about 40 billion dollars in reserves due to proper management of our finances .
and that shores up our economy , makes it stable .
our exchange rate that used to fluctuate all the time is now fairly stable and being managed so that business people have a predictability of prices in the economy .
we brought inflation down from 28 percent to about 11 percent .
and we had gdp grow from an average of 2.3 percent the previous decade to about 6.5 percent now .
so all the changes and reforms we were able to make have shown up in results that are measurable in the economy .
and what is more important , because we want to get away from oil and diversify -- and there are so many opportunities in this one big country , as in many countries in africa -- what was remarkable is that much of this growth came not from the oil sector alone , but from non-oil .
agriculture grew at better than eight percent .
as telecoms sector grew , housing and construction , and i could go on and on . and this is to illustrate to you that once you get the macro-economy straightened out , the opportunities in various other sectors are enormous .
we have opportunities in agriculture , like i said .
we have opportunities in solid minerals . we have a lot of minerals that no one has even invested in or explored . and we realized that without the proper legislation to make that possible , that wouldn 't happen . so we 've now got a mining code that is comparable with some of the best in the world .
we have opportunities in housing and real estate .
there was nothing in a country of 140 million people -- no shopping malls as you know them here .
this was an investment opportunity for someone that excited the imagination of people .
and now , we have a situation in which the businesses in this mall are doing four times the turnover that they had projected .
so , huge things in construction , real estate , mortgage markets . financial services : we had 89 banks . too many not doing their real business .
we consolidated them from 89 to 25 banks by requiring that they increase their capital -- share capital .
and it went from about 25 million dollars to 150 million dollars .
the banks -- these banks are now consolidated , and that strengthening of the banking system has attracted a lot of investment from outside .
barclays bank of the u.k. is bringing in 500 million .
standard chartered has brought in 140 million .
and i can go on . dollars , on and on , into the system .
we are doing the same with the insurance sector .
so in financial services , a great deal of opportunity .
in tourism , in many african countries , a great opportunity .
and that 's what many people know east africa for : the wildlife , the elephants , and so on .
but managing the tourism market in a way that can really benefit the people is very important .
so what am i trying to say ? i 'm trying to tell you that there 's a new wave on the continent .
a new wave of openness and democratization in which , since 2000 , more than two-thirds of african countries have had multi-party democratic elections .
not all of them have been perfect , or will be , but the trend is very clear .
i 'm trying to tell you that since the past three years , the average rate of growth on the continent has moved from about 2.5 percent to about five percent per annum .
this is better than the performance of many oecd countries .
so it 's clear that things are changing .
conflicts are down on the continent ; from about 12 conflicts a decade ago , we are down to three or four conflicts -- one of the most terrible , of course , of which is darfur .
and , you know , you have the neighborhood effect where if something is going on in one part of the continent , it looks like the entire continent is affected .
but you should know that this continent is not -- is a continent of many countries , not one country .
and if we are down to three or four conflicts , it means that there are plenty of opportunities to invest in stable , growing , exciting economies where there 's plenty of opportunity .
and i want to just make one point about this investment .
the best way to help africans today is to help them to stand on their own feet .
and the best way to do that is by helping create jobs .
there 's no issue with fighting malaria and putting money in that and saving children 's lives . that 's not what i 'm saying . that is fine .
but imagine the impact on a family : if the parents can be employed and make sure that their children go to school , that they can buy the drugs to fight the disease themselves .
if we can invest in places where you yourselves make money whilst creating jobs and helping people stand on their own feet , isn 't that a wonderful opportunity ? isn 't that the way to go ?
and i want to say that some of the best people to invest in on the continent are the women .
i have a cd here . i 'm sorry that i didn 't say anything on time .
otherwise , i would have liked you to have seen this .
it says , " africa : open for business . " and this is a video that has actually won an award as the best documentary of the year .
understand that the woman who made it is going to be in tanzania , where they 're having the session in june .
but it shows you africans , and particularly african women , who against all odds have developed businesses , some of them world-class .
one of the women in this video , adenike ogunlesi , making children 's clothes -- which she started as a hobby and grew into a business .
mixing african materials , such as we have , with materials from elsewhere .
so , she 'll make a little pair of dungarees with corduroys , with african material mixed in . very creative designs ,
has reached a stage where she even had an order from wal-mart .
for 10,000 pieces .
so that shows you that we have people who are capable of doing .
and the women are diligent . they are focused ; they work hard .
i could go on giving examples : beatrice gakuba of rwanda , who opened up a flower business and is now exporting to the dutch auction in amsterdam each morning and is employing 200 other women and men to work with her .
however , many of these are starved for capital to expand , because nobody believes outside of our countries that we can do what is necessary . nobody thinks in terms of a market .
nobody thinks there 's opportunity .
but i 'm standing here saying that those who miss the boat now , will miss it forever .
so if you want to be in africa , think about investing .
think about the beatrices , think about the adenikes of this world , who are doing incredible things , that are bringing them into the global economy , whilst at the same time making sure that their fellow men and women are employed , and that the children in those households get educated because their parents are earning adequate income .
so i invite you to explore the opportunities .
when you go to tanzania , listen carefully , because i 'm sure you will hear of the various openings that there will be for you to get involved in something that will do good for the continent , for the people and for yourselves .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / yochai _ benkler _ on _ the _ new _ open _ source _ economics.html
yochai benkler explains how collaborative projects like wikipedia and linux represent the next stage of human organization .
google , business , collaboration , economics , law , social change , technology , wikipedia
247
yochai benkler on the new open-source economics
one of the problems of writing , and working , and looking at the internet is that it 's very hard to separate fashion from deep change .
and so , to start helping that , i want to take us back to 1835 .
in 1835 , james gordon bennett founded the first mass-circulation newspaper in new york city .
and it cost about 500 dollars to start it , which was about the equivalent of 10,000 dollars of today .
by 15 years later , by 1850 , doing the same thing -- starting what was experienced as a mass--circulation daily paper -- would come to cost two and a half million dollars .
10,000 , two and a half million , 15 years .
that 's the critical change that is being inverted by the net .
and that 's what i want to talk about today , and how that relates to the emergence of social production .
starting with newspapers , what we saw was high cost as an initial requirement for making information , knowledge and culture , which led to a stark bifurcation between producers -- who had to be able to raise financial capital , just like any other industrial organization -- and passive consumers that could choose from a certain set of things that this industrial model could produce .
now , the term " information society , " " information economy , " for a very long time has been used as the thing that comes after
the industrial revolution . but in fact , for purposes of understanding what 's happening
today , that 's wrong . because for 150 years , we 've had an information economy .
it 's just been industrial ,
which means those who were producing had to have a way of raising money to pay those two and a half million dollars , and later , more for the telegraph , and the radio transmitter , and the television , and eventually the mainframe .
and that meant they were market based , or they were government owned , depending on what kind of system they were in . and this characterized and anchored the way information and knowledge were produced for the next 150 years .
now , let me tell you a different story . around june 2002 , the world of supercomputers had a bombshell .
the japanese had , for the first time , created the fastest supercomputer -- the nec earth simulator -- taking the primary from the u.s. , and about two years later -- this , by the way , is measuring the trillion floating-point operations per second that the computer 's capable of running --
sigh of relief : ibm [ blue gene ] has just edged ahead of the nec earth simulator .
all of this completely ignores the fact that throughout this period , there 's another supercomputer running in the world -- seti @ home . four and a half million users around the world , contributing their leftover computer cycles , whenever their computer isn 't working , by running a screen saver , and together sharing their resources to create a massive supercomputer that nasa harnesses to analyze the data coming from radio telescopes .
what this picture suggests to us is that we 've got a radical change in the way information production and exchange is capitalized . not that it 's become less capital intensive -- that there 's less money that 's required -- but that the ownership of this capital , the way the capitalization happens , is radically distributed . each of us , in these advanced economies , has one of these , or something rather like it -- a computer .
they 're not radically different from routers inside the middle of the network .
and computation , storage and communications capacity are in the hands of practically every connected person -- and these are the basic physical capital means necessary for producing information , knowledge and culture , in the hands of something like 600 million to a billion people around the planet .
what this means is that for the first time since the industrial revolution , the most important means , the most important components of the core economic activities -- remember , we are in an information economy -- of the most advanced economies , and there more than anywhere else , are in the hands of the population at large . this is completely different than what we 've seen since the industrial revolution . so we 've got communications and computation capacity in the hands of the entire population , and we 've got human creativity , human wisdom , human experience -- the other major experience , the other major input --
which unlike simple labor -- stand here turning this lever all day long -- is not something that 's the same or fungible among people .
any one of you who has taken someone else 's job , or tried to give yours to someone else , no matter how detailed the manual , you cannot transmit what you know , what you will intuit under a certain set of circumstances .
in that we 're unique , and each of us holds this critical input into production as we hold this machine .
what 's the effect of this ? so , the story that most people know is the story of free or open source software .
this is market share of apache web server -- one of the critical applications in web-based communications .
in 1995 , two groups of people said , " wow , this is really important , the web ! we need a much better web server ! "
one was a motley collection of volunteers who just decided , you know , we really need this , we should write one , and what are we going to do with what -- well , we 're gonna share it ! and other people will be able to develop it .
the other was microsoft .
now , if i told you that 10 years later , the motley crew of people , who didn 't control anything that they produced , acquired 20 percent of the market and was the red line , it would be amazing ! right ?
think of it in minivans . a group of automobile engineers on their weekends are competing with toyota . right ?
but , in fact , of course , the story is it 's the 70 percent , including the major e-commerce site -- 70 percent of a critical application on which web-based communications and applications work is produced in this form , in direct competition with microsoft . not in a side issue -- in a central strategic decision to try to capture a component of the net .
software has done this in a way that 's been very visible , because it 's measurable . but the thing to see is that this actually happens throughout the web .
so , nasa , at some point , did an experiment where they took images of mars that they were mapping , and they said , instead of having three or four fully trained ph.d.s doing this all the time , let 's break it up into small components , put it up on the web , and see if people , using a very simple interface , will actually spend five minutes here , 10 minutes there , clicking . after six months , 85,000 people used this to generate mapping at a faster rate than the images were coming in , which was , quote , " practically indistinguishable from the markings of a fully-trained ph.d. , " once you showed it to a number of people and computed the average .
now , if you have a little girl , and she goes and writes to -- well , not so little , medium little -- tries to do research on barbie .
and she 'll come to encarta , one of the main online encyclopedias . this is what you 'll find out about barbie . this is it , there 's nothing more to the definition , including , " manufacturers " -- plural -- " now more commonly produce ethnically diverse dolls , like this black barbie . " which is vastly better than what you 'll find in the encyclopedia.com , which is barbie , klaus .
on the other hand , if they go to wikipedia , they 'll find a genuine article -- and i won 't talk a lot about wikipedia , because jimmy wales is here -- but roughly equivalent to what you would find in the britannica , differently written , including the controversies over body image and commercialization , the claims about the way in which she 's a good role model , etc .
another portion is not only how content is produced , but how relevance is produced .
the claim to fame of yahoo ! was , we hire people to look -- originally , not anymore -- we hire people to look at websites and tell you -- if they 're in the index , they 're good . this , on the other hand , is what 60,000 passionate volunteers produce in the open directory project ,
each one willing to spend an hour or two on something they really care about , to say , this is good . so , this is the open directory project , with 60,000 volunteers , each one spending a little bit of time , as opposed to a few hundred fully paid employees . no one owns it , no one owns the output , it 's free for anyone to use and it 's the output of people acting out of social and psychological motivations to do something interesting .
this is not only outside of businesses . when you think of what is the critical innovation of google , the critical innovation is outsourcing the one most important thing -- the decision about what 's relevant -- to the community of the web as a whole , doing whatever they want to do : so , page rank .
the critical innovation here is instead of our engineers , or our people saying which is the most relevant , we 're going to go out and count what you , people out there on the web , for whatever reason -- vanity , pleasure -- produced links , and tied to each other . we 're going to count those , and count them up .
and again , here , you see barbie.com , but also , very quickly , adiosbarbie.com , the body image for every size . a contested cultural object , which you won 't find anywhere soon on overture , which is the classic market-based mechanism : whoever pays the most is highest on the list .
so , all of that is in the creation of content , of relevance , basic human expression .
but remember , the computers were also physical . just physical materials -- our pcs -- we share them together . we also see this in wireless .
it used to be wireless was one person owned the license , they transmitted in an area , and it had to be decided whether they would be licensed or based on property .
what we 're seeing now is that computers and radios are becoming so sophisticated that we 're developing algorithms to let people own machines , like wi-fi devices , and overlay them with a sharing protocol that would allow a community like this to build its own wireless broadband network simply from the simple principle : when i 'm listening , when i 'm not using , i can help you transfer your messages ;
and when you 're not using , you 'll help me transfer yours .
and this is not an idealized version . these are working models that at least in some places in the united states are being implemented , at least for public security .
if in 1999 i told you , let 's build a data storage and retrieval system .
it 's got to store terabytes . it 's got to be available 24 hours a day , seven days a week . it 's got to be available from anywhere in the world .
it has to support over 100 million users at any given moment . it 's got to be robust to attack , including closing the main index , injecting malicious files , armed seizure of some major nodes . you 'd say that would take years .
it would take millions . but of course , what i 'm describing is p2p file sharing .
right ? we always think of it as stealing music , but fundamentally , it 's a distributed data storage and retrieval system , where people , for very obvious reasons , are willing to share their bandwidth and their storage to create something .
so , essentially what we 're seeing is the emergence of a fourth transactional framework . it used to be that there were two primary dimensions along which
you could divide things . they could be market based , or non-market based ; they could be decentralized , or centralized .
the price system was a market-based and decentralized system .
if things worked better because you actually had somebody organizing them , you had firms , if you wanted to be in the market -- or you had governments or sometimes larger non-profits in the non-market .
it was too expensive to have decentralized social production , to have decentralized action in society . that was not about society itself .
that was , in fact , economic .
but what we 're seeing now is the emergence of this fourth system of social sharing and exchange .
not that it 's the first time that we do nice things to each other , or for each other , as social beings . we do it all the time .
it 's that it 's the first time that it 's having major economic impact .
what characterizes them is decentralized authority .
you don 't have to ask permission , as you do in a property-based system .
may i do this ? it 's open for anyone to create and innovate and share , if they want to , by themselves or with others , because property is one mechanism of coordination . but it 's not the only one .
instead , what we see are social frameworks for all of the critical things that we use property and contract in the market : information flows to decide what are interesting problems ; who 's available and good for something ; motivation structures -- remember , money isn 't always the best motivator .
if you leave a $ 50 check after dinner with friends , you don 't increase the probability of being invited back .
and if dinner isn 't entirely obvious , think of sex .
it also requires certain new organizational approaches .
and in particular , what we 've seen is task organization .
you have to hire people who know what they 're doing .
you have to hire them to spend a lot of time .
now , take the same problem , chunk it into little modules , and motivations become trivial .
five minutes , instead of watching tv ?
five minutes i 'll spend just because it 's interesting . just because it 's fun .
just because it gives me a certain sense of meaning , or , in places that are more involved , like wikipedia , gives me a certain set of social relations .
so , a new social phenomenon is emerging .
it 's creating , and it 's most visible when we see it as a new form of competition .
peer-to-peer networks assaulting the recording industry ; free and open source software taking market share from microsoft ; skype potentially threatening traditional telecoms ; wikipedia competing with online encyclopedias .
but it 's also a new source of opportunities for businesses .
as you see a new set of social relations and behaviors emerging , you have new opportunities . some of them are toolmakers .
instead of building well-behaved appliances -- things that you know what they 'll do in advance -- you begin to build more open tools . there 's a new set of values , a new set of things people value .
you build platforms for self-expression and collaboration .
like wikipedia , like the open directory project , you 're beginning to build platforms , and you see that as a model .
and you see surfers , people who see this happening , and in some sense build it into a supply chain , which is a very curious one . right ?
you have a belief : stuff will flow out of connected human beings .
that 'll give me something i can use , and i 'm going to contract with someone .
i will deliver something based on what happens . it 's very scary -- that 's what google does , essentially .
that 's what ibm does in software services , and they 've done reasonably well .
so , social production is a real fact , not a fad .
it is the critical long-term shift caused by the internet .
social relations and exchange become significantly more important than they ever were as an economic phenomenon . in some contexts , it 's even more efficient because of the quality of the information , the ability to find the best person , the lower transaction costs . it 's sustainable and growing fast .
but -- and this is the dark lining -- it is threatened by -- in the same way that it threatens -- the incumbent industrial systems .
so next time you open the paper , and you see an intellectual property decision , a telecoms decision , it 's not about something small and technical .
it is about the future of the freedom to be as social beings with each other , and the way information , knowledge and culture will be produced .
because it is in this context that we see a battle over how easy or hard it will be for the industrial information economy to simply go on as it goes , or for the new model of production to begin to develop alongside that industrial model , and change the way we begin to see the world and report what it is that we see .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / seth _ berkley _ hiv _ and _ flu _ the _ vaccine _ strategy.html
seth berkley explains how smart advances in vaccine design , production and distribution are bringing us closer than ever to eliminating a host of global threats -- from aids to malaria to flu pandemics .
aids , epidemiology , global issues , health , medicine
869
seth berkley : hiv and flu -- the vaccine strategy
do you worry about what is going to kill you ?
heart disease , cancer , a car accident ?
most of us worry about things we can 't control , like war , terrorism , the tragic earthquake that just occurred in haiti .
but what really threatens humanity ?
a few years ago , professor vaclav smil tried to calculate the probability of sudden disasters large enough to change history .
he called these , " massively fatal discontinuities , " meaning that they could kill up to 100 million people in the next 50 years .
he looked at the odds of another world war , of a massive volcanic eruption , even of an asteroid hitting the earth .
but he placed the likelihood of one such event above all others at close to 100 percent , and that is a severe flu pandemic .
now , you might think of flu as just a really bad cold ,
but it can be a death sentence .
every year , 36,000 people in the united states die of seasonal flu .
in the developing world , the data is much sketchier but the death toll is almost certainly higher .
you know , the problem is if this virus occasionally mutates so dramatically , it essentially is a new virus
and then we get a pandemic .
in 1918 , a new virus appeared that killed some 50 to 100 million people .
it spread like wildfire
and some died within hours of developing symptoms .
are we safer today ?
well , we seem to have dodged the deadly pandemic this year that most of us feared , but this threat could reappear at any time .
the good news is that we 're at a moment in time when science , technology , globalization is converging to create an unprecedented possibility : the possibility to make history by preventing infectious diseases that still account for one-fifth of all deaths and countless misery on earth . we can do this .
we 're already preventing millions of deaths with existing vaccines ,
and if we get these to more people , we can certainly save more lives .
but with new or better vaccines for malaria , tb , hiv , pneumonia , diarrhea , flu , we could end suffering that has been on the earth since the beginning of time .
so , i 'm here to trumpet vaccines for you . but first , i have to explain why they 're important
because vaccines , the power of them , is really like a whisper .
when they work , they can make history , but after a while you can barely hear them .
now , some of us are old enough to have a small , circular scar on our arms from an inoculation we received as children .
but when was the last time you worried about smallpox , a disease that killed half a billion people last century and no longer is with us ?
or polio ? how many of you remember the iron lung ?
we don 't see scenes like this anymore because of vaccines .
now , it 's interesting because there are 30-odd diseases that can be treated with vaccines now , but we 're still threatened by things like hiv and flu .
why is that ?
well , here 's the dirty little secret . until recently , we haven 't had to know exactly how a vaccine worked .
we knew they worked through old-fashioned trial and error .
you took a pathogen , you modified it , you injected it into a person or an animal and you saw what happened .
this worked well for most pathogens , somewhat well for crafty bugs like flu , but not at all for hiv , for which humans have no natural immunity .
so let 's explore how vaccines work .
they basically create a cache of weapons for your immune system which you can deploy when needed .
now , when you get a viral infection , what normally happens is it takes days or weeks for your body to fight back at full strength , and that might be too late .
when you 're pre-immunized , what happens is you have forces in your body pre-trained to recognize and defeat specific foes .
so that 's really how vaccines work .
now , let 's take a look at a video that we 're debuting at ted , for the first time , on how an effective hiv vaccine might work .
narrator : a vaccine trains the body in advance how to recognize and neutralize a specific invader .
after hiv penetrates the body 's mucosal barriers , it infects immune cells to replicate .
the invader draws the attention of the immune system 's front-line troops .
dendritic cells , or macrophages , capture the virus and display pieces of it .
memory cells generated by the hiv vaccine are activated when they learn hiv is present from the front-line troops .
these memory cells immediately deploy the exact weapons needed .
memory b cells turn into plasma cells , which produce wave after wave of the specific antibodies that latch onto hiv to prevent it from infecting cells , while squadrons of killer t cells seek out and destroy cells that are already hiv infected .
the virus is defeated .
without a vaccine , these responses would have taken more than a week .
by that time , the battle against hiv would already have been lost .
seth berkley : really cool video , isn 't it ?
the antibodies you just saw in this video , in action , are the ones that make most vaccines work .
so the real question then is : how do we ensure that your body makes the exact ones that we need to protect against flu and hiv ?
the principal challenge for both of these viruses is that they 're always changing .
so let 's take a look at the flu virus .
in this rendering of the flu virus , these different colored spikes are what it uses to infect you .
and also , what the antibodies use is a handle to essentially grab and neutralize the virus .
when these mutate , they change their shape , and the antibodies don 't know what they 're looking at anymore .
so that 's why every year you can catch a slightly different strain of flu .
it 's also why in the spring , we have to make a best guess at which three strains are going to prevail the next year , put those into a single vaccine and rush those into production for the fall .
even worse , the most common influenza -- influenza a -- also infects animals that live in close proximity to humans , and they can recombine in those particular animals .
in addition , wild aquatic birds carry all known strains of influenza .
so , you 've got this situation :
in 2003 , we had an h5n1 virus that jumped from birds into humans in a few isolated cases with an apparent mortality rate of 70 percent .
now luckily , that particular virus , although very scary at the time , did not transmit from person to person very easily .
this year 's h1n1 threat was actually a human , avian , swine mixture that arose in mexico .
it was easily transmitted , but , luckily , was pretty mild .
and so , in a sense , our luck is holding out , but you know , another wild bird could fly over at anytime .
now let 's take a look at hiv .
as variable as flu is , hiv makes flu look like the rock of gibraltar .
the virus that causes aids is the trickiest pathogen scientists have ever confronted .
it mutates furiously ,
it has decoys to evade the immune system ,
it attacks the very cells that are trying to fight it
and it quickly hides itself in your genome .
here 's a slide looking at the genetic variation of flu and comparing that to hiv , a much wilder target . in the video a moment ago , you saw fleets of new viruses launching from infected cells .
now realize that in a recently infected person , there are millions of these ships ; each one is just slightly different .
finding a weapon that recognizes and sinks all of them makes the job that much harder .
now , in the 27 years since hiv was identified as the cause of aids , we 've developed more drugs to treat hiv than all other viruses put together .
these drugs aren 't cures , but they represent a huge triumph of science because they take away the automatic death sentence from a diagnosis of hiv , at least for those who can access them .
the vaccine effort though is really quite different .
large companies moved away from it because they thought the science was so difficult and vaccines were seen as poor business .
many thought that it was just impossible to make an aids vaccine , but today , evidence tells us otherwise .
in september , we had surprising but exciting findings from a clinical trial that took place in thailand .
for the first time , we saw an aids vaccine work in humans -- albeit , quite modestly --
and that particular vaccine was made almost a decade ago .
newer concepts and early testing now show even greater promise in the best of our animal models .
but in the past few months , researchers have also isolated several new broadly neutralizing antibodies from the blood of an hiv infected individual .
now , what does this mean ?
we saw earlier that hiv is highly variable , that a broad neutralizing antibody latches on and disables multiple variations of the virus .
if you take these and you put them in the best of our monkey models , they provide full protection from infection .
in addition , these researchers found a new site on hiv where the antibodies can grab onto ,
and what 's so special about this spot is that it changes very little as the virus mutates .
it 's like , as many times as the virus changes its clothes , it 's still wearing the same socks , and now our job is to make sure we get the body to really hate those socks .
so what we 've got is a situation .
the thai results tell us we can make an aids vaccine ,
and the antibody findings tell us how we might do that .
this strategy , working backwards
from an antibody to create a vaccine candidate , has never been done before in vaccine research .
it 's called retro-vaccinology , and its implications extend way beyond that of just hiv .
so think of it this way .
we 've got these new antibodies we 've identified , and we know that they latch onto many , many variations of the virus .
we know that they have to latch onto a specific part ,
so if we can figure out the precise structure of that part , present that through a vaccine , what we hope is we can prompt your immune system to make these matching antibodies .
and that would create a universal hiv vaccine .
now , it sounds easier than it is because the structure actually looks more like this blue antibody diagram attached to its yellow binding site ,
and as you can imagine , these three-dimensional structures are much harder to work on .
and if you guys have ideas to help us solve this , we 'd love to hear about it .
but , you know , the research that has occurred from hiv now has really helped with innovation with other diseases .
so for instance , a biotechnology company has now found broadly neutralizing antibodies to influenza , as well as a new antibody target on the flu virus .
they 're currently making a cocktail -- an antibody cocktail -- that can be used to treat severe , overwhelming cases of flu .
in the longer term , what they can do is use these tools of retro-vaccinology to make a preventive flu vaccine .
now , retro-vaccinology is just one technique within the ambit of so-called rational vaccine design .
let me give you another example .
we talked about before the h and n spikes on the surface of the flu virus .
notice these other , smaller protuberances .
these are largely hidden from the immune system .
now it turns out that these spots also don 't change much when the virus mutates .
if you can cripple these with specific antibodies , you could cripple all versions of the flu .
so far , animal tests indicate that such a vaccine could prevent severe disease , although you might get a mild case .
so if this works in humans , what we 're talking about is a universal flu vaccine , one that doesn 't need to change every year and would remove the threat of death .
we really could think of flu , then , as just a bad cold .
of course , the best vaccine imaginable is only valuable to the extent we get it to everyone who needs it .
so to do that , we have to combine smart vaccine design with smart production methods and , of course , smart delivery methods .
so i want you to think back a few months ago .
in june , the world health organization declared the first global flu pandemic in 41 years .
the u.s. government promised 150 million doses of vaccine by october 15th for the flu peak .
vaccines were promised to developing countries .
hundreds of millions of dollars were spent and flowed to accelerating vaccine manufacturing .
so what happened ?
well , we first figured out how to make flu vaccines , how to produce them ,
in the early 1940s . it was a slow , cumbersome process that depended on chicken eggs , millions of living chicken eggs .
viruses only grow in living things , and so it turned out that , for flu , chicken eggs worked really well .
for most strains , you could get one to two doses of vaccine per egg .
luckily for us , we live in an era of breathtaking biomedical advances .
so today , we get our flu vaccines from ...
chicken eggs , hundreds of millions of chicken eggs .
almost nothing has changed .
the system is reliable
but the problem is you never know how well a strain is going to grow .
this year 's swine flu strain grew very poorly in early production : basically .6 doses per egg .
so , here 's an alarming thought .
what if that wild bird flies by again ?
you could see an avian strain that would infect the poultry flocks , and then we would have no eggs for our vaccines .
so , dan [ barber ] , if you want billions of chicken pellets for your fish farm , i know where to get them .
so right now , the world can produce about 350 million doses of flu vaccine for the three strains ,
and we can up that to about 1.2 billion doses if we want to target a single variant like swine flu .
but this assumes that our factories are humming because , in 2004 , the u.s. supply was cut in half by contamination at one single plant .
and the process still takes more than half a year .
so are we better prepared than we were in 1918 ?
well , with the new technologies emerging now , i hope we can say definitively , " yes . "
imagine we could produce enough flu vaccine for everyone in the entire world for less than half of what we 're currently spending now in the united states .
with a range of new technologies , we could .
here 's an example : a company i 'm engaged with has found a specific piece of the h spike of flu that sparks the immune system .
if you lop this off and attach it to the tail of a different bacterium , which creates a vigorous immune response , they 've created a very powerful flu fighter .
this vaccine is so small it can be grown in a common bacteria , e. coli . now , as you know , bacteria reproduce quickly --
it 's like making yogurt --
and so we could produce enough swine origin flu for the entire world in a few factories , in a few weeks , with no eggs , for a fraction of the cost of current methods .
so here 's a comparison of several of these new vaccine technologies .
and , aside from the radically increased production and huge cost savings -- for example , the e. coli method i just talked about -- look at the time saved : this would be lives saved .
the developing world , mostly left out of the current response , sees the potential of these alternate technologies and they 're leapfrogging the west .
india , mexico and others are already making experimental flu vaccines , and they may be the first place we see these vaccines in use .
because these technologies are so efficient and relatively cheap , billions of people can have access to lifesaving vaccines if we can figure out how to deliver them .
now think of where this leads us .
new infectious diseases appear or reappear every few years .
some day , perhaps soon , we 'll have a virus that is going to threaten all of us .
will we be quick enough to react before millions die ?
luckily , this year 's flu was relatively mild .
i say , " luckily " in part because virtually no one in the developing world was vaccinated .
so if we have the political and financial foresight to sustain our investments , we will master these and new tools of vaccinology ,
and with these tools we can produce enough vaccine for everyone at low cost and ensure healthy productive lives .
no longer must flu have to kill half a million people a year .
no longer does aids need to kill two million a year .
no longer do the poor and vulnerable need to be threatened by infectious diseases , or indeed , anybody .
instead of having vaclav smil 's " massively fatal discontinuity " of life , we can ensure the continuity of life .
what the world needs now are these new vaccines , and we can make it happen .
thank you very much .
chris anderson : thank you .
thank you . so , the science is changing .
in your mind , seth -- i mean , you must dream about this -- what is the kind of time scale on , let 's start with hiv , for a game-changing vaccine that 's actually out there and usable ?
sb : the game change can come at any time , because the problem we have now is we 've shown we can get a vaccine to work in humans ; we just need a better one .
and with these types of antibodies , we know humans can make them .
so , if we can figure out how to do that , then we have the vaccine , and what 's interesting is there already is some evidence that we 're beginning to crack that problem .
so , the challenge is full speed ahead .
ca : in your gut , do you think it 's probably going to be at least another five years ?
sb : you know , everybody says it 's 10 years , but it 's been 10 years every 10 years .
so i hate to put a timeline on scientific innovation , but the investments that have occurred are now paying dividends .
ca : and that 's the same with universal flu vaccine , the same kind of thing ?
sb : i think flu is different . i think what happened with flu is we 've got a bunch -- i just showed some of this -- a bunch of really cool and useful technologies that are ready to go now .
they look good . the problem has been that , what we did is we invested in traditional technologies because that 's what we were comfortable with .
you also can use adjuvants , which are chemicals you mix .
that 's what europe is doing , so we could have diluted out our supply of flu and made more available ,
but , going back to what michael specter said , the anti-vaccine crowd didn 't really want that to happen .
ca : and malaria 's even further behind ?
sb : no , malaria , there is a candidate that actually showed efficacy in an earlier trial and is currently in phase three trials now .
it probably isn 't the perfect vaccine , but it 's moving along .
ca : seth , most of us do work where every month , we produce something ; we get that kind of gratification .
you 've been slaving away at this for more than a decade , and i salute you and your colleagues for what you do .
the world needs people like you . thank you .
sb : thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / george _ ayittey _ on _ cheetahs _ vs _ hippos.html
ghanaian economist george ayittey unleashes a torrent of controlled anger toward corrupt leaders in africa -- and calls on the " cheetah generation " to take back the continent .
africa , business , development , economics , entrepreneur , global issues , philanthropy , politics
151
george ayittey on cheetahs vs. hippos
well , first of all , let me thank emeka -- as a matter of fact , ted global -- for putting this conference together .
this conference is going to rank as the most important in the beginning of the 21st century .
think african governments will put together a conference like this ?
you think the a.u. will put together a conference like this ?
even before they do that they will ask for foreign aid .
i would also like to pay homage and honor to the ted fellows june arunga , james shikwati , andrew , and the other ted fellows .
i call them the cheetah generation .
the cheetah generation is a new breed of africans who brook no nonsense about corruption .
they understand what accountability and democracy is .
they 're not going to wait for government to do things for them .
that 's the cheetah generation ,
and africa 's salvation rests on the backs of these cheetahs .
in contrast , of course , we have the hippo generation .
the hippo generation are the ruling elites . they are stuck in their intellectual patch . complaining about colonialism and imperialism , they wouldn 't move one foot .
if you ask them to reform the economies , they 're not going to reform it because they benefit from the rotten status quo .
now , there are a lot of africans who are very angry , angry at the condition of africa .
now , we 're talking about a continent that is not poor .
it is rich in mineral resources , natural mineral resources .
but the mineral wealth of africa is not being utilized to lift its people out of poverty .
that 's what makes a lot of africans very angry . and in a way , africa is more than a tragedy , in more ways than one .
there 's another enduring tragedy , and that tragedy is that there are so many people , so many governments , so many organizations who want to help the people in africa . they don 't understand .
now , we 're not saying don 't help africa .
helping africa is noble .
but helping africa has been turned into a theater of the absurd .
it 's like the blind leading the clueless .
there are certain things that we need to recognize .
africa 's begging-bowl leaks .
did you know that 40 percent of the wealth created in africa is not invested here in africa ?
it 's taken out of africa .
that 's what the world bank says .
look at africa 's begging-bowl .
it leaks horribly .
there are people who think that we should pour more money , more aid into this bowl which leaks .
what are the leakages ?
corruption alone costs africa 148 billion dollars a year .
yes , put that aside .
capital flight out of africa , 80 billion a year .
put that aside .
let 's take food imports .
every year africa spends 20 billion dollars to import food . just add that up , all these leakages .
that 's far more than the 50 billion tony blair wants to raise for africa .
now , back in the 1960s africa not only fed itself , it also exported food .
not anymore .
we know that something has gone fundamentally wrong . you know it , i know it , but let 's not waste our time talking about these mistakes because we 'll spend all day here .
let 's move on , and flip over to the next chapter ,
and that 's what this conference is all about -- the next chapter .
the next chapter begins with first of all , asking ourselves this fundamental question , " whom do we want to help in africa ? "
there is the people , and then there is the government or leaders .
now , the previous speaker before me , idris mohammed , indicated that we 've had abysmal leadership in africa .
that characterization , in my view , is even more charitable .
i belong to an internet discussion forum , an african internet discussion forum , and i asked them , i said , " since 1960 , we 've had exactly 204 african heads of state , since 1960 . "
and i asked them to name me just 20 good leaders , just 20 good leaders -- you may want to take this leadership challenge yourself .
i asked them to name me just 20 .
everybody mentioned nelson mandela , of course .
kwame nkrumah , nyerere , kenyatta -- somebody mentioned idi amin . i let that pass .
my point is , they couldn 't go beyond 15 .
even if they had been able to name me 20 , what does that tell you ?
20 out of 204 means that the vast majority of the african leaders failed their people .
and if you look at them , the slate of the post-colonial leaders -- an assortment of military fufu heads ,
swiss-bank socialists , crocodile liberators , vampire elites , quack revolutionaries .
now , this leadership is a far cry from the traditional leaders that africans have known for centuries .
the second false premise that we make when we 're trying to help africa is that sometimes we think that there is something called a government in africa that cares about its people , serves the interests of the people , and represents the people .
there is one particular quote -- a lesotho chief once said that " here in lesotho , we 've got two problems : rats and the government . "
what you and i understand as a government doesn 't exist in many african countries .
in fact , what we call our governments are vampire states .
vampires because they suck the economic vitality out of their people .
government is the problem in africa .
a vampire state is the government -- -- which has been hijacked by a phalanx of bandits and crooks who use the instruments of state power to enrich themselves , their cronies , and tribesmen and exclude everybody else .
the richest people in africa are heads-of-state and ministers , and quite often the chief bandit is the head-of-state himself .
where do they get their money ?
by creating wealth ?
no .
by raking it off the backs of their suffering people .
that 's not wealth creation . it 's wealth redistribution .
the third fundamental issue that we have to recognize is that if we want to help the african people , we must know where the african people are .
take any african economy .
an african economy can be broken up into three sectors .
there is the modern sector , there is the informal sector and the traditional sector .
the modern sector is the abode of the elites .
it 's the seat of government .
in many african countries the modern sector is lost .
it 's dysfunctional .
it is a meretricious fandango of imported systems , which the elites themselves don 't understand .
that is the source of many of africa 's problems where the struggles for political power emanate and then spill over onto the informal and the traditional sector , claiming innocent lives .
now the modern sector , of course , is where a lot of the development aid and resources went into .
more than 80 percent of ivory coast 's development went into the modern sector .
the other sectors , the informal and the traditional sectors , are where you find the majority of the african people ,
the real people in africa . that 's where you find them .
now , obviously it makes common sense that if you want to help the people , you go where the people are .
but that 's not what we did .
as a matter of fact , we neglected the informal and the traditional sectors .
now , traditional sector is where africa produces its agriculture , which is one of the reasons why africa can 't feed itself , and that 's why it must import food .
all right , you cannot develop africa by ignoring the informal and the traditional sectors .
and you can 't develop the informal and the traditional sectors without an operational understanding of how these two sectors work .
these two sectors , let me describe to you , have their own indigenous institutions .
first one is the political system .
traditionally , africans hate governments . they hate tyranny .
if you look into their traditional systems , africans organize their states in two types .
the first one belongs to those ethnic societies who believe that the state was necessarily tyrannous , so they didn 't want to have anything to do with any centralized authority .
these societies are the ibo , the somali , the kikuyus , for example . they have no chiefs .
the other ethnic groups , which did have chiefs , made sure that they surrounded the chiefs with councils upon councils upon councils to prevent them from abusing their power .
in ashanti tradition , for example , the chief cannot make any decision without the concurrence of the council of elders .
without the council the chief can 't pass any law , and if the chief doesn 't govern according to the will of the people he will be removed .
if not , the people will abandon the chief , go somewhere else and set up a new settlement .
and even if you look in ancient african empires , they were all organized around one particular principle -- the confederacy principle , which is characterized by a great deal of devolution of authority , decentralization of power .
now , this is what i have described to you . this is part of africa 's indigenous political heritage .
now , compare that to the modern systems the ruling elites established on africa .
it is a total far cry .
in the economic system in traditional africa , the means of production is privately owned .
it 's owned by extended families .
you see , in the west , the basic economic and social unit is the individual .
the american will say , " i am because i am , and i can damn well do anything i want , anytime . "
the accent is on the " i. "
in africa , the africans say , " i am , because we are . "
the " we " connotes community -- the extended family system .
the extended family system pools its resources together .
they own farms . they decide what to do , what to produce .
they don 't take any orders from their chiefs . they decide what to do .
and when they produce their crops , they sell the surplus on marketplaces .
when they make a profit it is theirs to keep , not for the chief to sequester it from them .
so , in a nutshell , what we had in traditional africa was a free-market system .
there were markets in africa before the colonialists stepped foot on the continent .
timbuktu was one great big market town .
kano , salaga -- they were all there .
even if you go to west africa , you notice that market activity in west africa has always been dominated by women .
so , it 's quite appropriate that this section is called a marketplace .
the market is not alien to africa .
what africans practiced was a different form of capitalism , but then after independence , all of a sudden , markets , capitalism became a western institution , and the leaders said africans were ready for socialism .
nonsense .
and even then , what kind of socialism did they practice ?
the socialism that they practiced was a peculiar form of swiss-bank socialism , which allowed the heads of states and the ministers to rape and plunder africa 's treasuries for deposit in switzerland .
that is not the kind of system africans had known for centuries .
what do we do now ?
go back to africa 's indigenous institutions , and this is where we charge the cheetahs to go into the informal sectors , the traditional sectors . that 's where you find the african people .
and i 'd like to show you a quick little video about the informal sector , about the boat-building that i , myself , tried to mobilize africans in the diaspora to invest in .
could you please show that ?
the men are going fishing in these small boats .
yes , it 's an enterprise .
this is by a local ghanaian entrepreneur , using his own capital .
he 's getting no assistance from the government , and he 's building a second , bigger boat .
a bigger boat will mean more fish will be caught and landed .
it means that he will be able to employ more ghanaians .
it also means that he will be able to generate wealth .
and then it will have what economists call external effects on a local economy .
all that you need to do , all that the elites need to do , is to move this operation into something that is enclosed so that the operation can be made more efficient .
now , it is not just this informal sector . there is also traditional medicine .
80 percent of africans still rely on traditional medicine .
the modern healthcare sector has totally collapsed . now , this is an area -- i mean , there is a treasure trove of wealth in the traditional medicine area .
this is where we need to mobilize africans , in the diaspora especially , to invest in this .
we also need to mobilize africans in the diaspora , not only to go into the traditional sectors , but to go into agriculture and also to instigate change from within .
we were able to mobilize ghanaians in the diaspora to instigate change in ghana and bring about democracy in ghana .
and i know that with the cheetahs , we can take africa back one village at a time .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / stewart _ brand _ on _ squatter _ cities.html
rural villages worldwide are being deserted , as billions of people flock to cities to live in teeming squatter camps and slums . stewart brand says this is a good thing . why ? it 'll take you 3 minutes to find out .
business , cities , culture , future , global issues , poverty , short talk , technology
123
stewart brand on squatter cities
basically , there 's a major demographic event going on .
and it may be that passing the 50 percent urban point is an economic tipping point . so the world now is a map of connectivity .
it used to be that paris and london and new york were the largest cities .
what we have now is the end of the rise of the west . that 's over .
the aggregate numbers are overwhelming .
so what 's really going on ? well , villages of the world are emptying out .
the question is , why ?
and here 's the unromantic truth -- and the city air makes you free , they said in renaissance germany . so some people go to places like shanghai but most go to the squatter cities where aesthetics rule .
and these are not really a people oppressed by poverty .
they 're people getting out of poverty as fast as they can .
they 're the dominant builders and to a large extent , the dominant designers .
they have home-brewed infrastructure and vibrant urban life .
one-sixth of the gdp in india is coming out of mumbai .
they are constantly upgrading , and in a few cases , the government helps .
education is the main event that can happen in cities .
what 's going on in the street in mumbai ?
al gore knows . it 's basically everything .
there 's no unemployment in squatter cities . everyone works .
one-sixth of humanity is there . it 's soon going to be more than that .
so here 's the first punch line :
cities have defused the population bomb .
and here 's the second punch line .
that 's the news from downtown . here it is in perspective .
stars have shined down on earth 's life for billions of years .
now we 're shining right back up .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eli _ pariser _ beware _ online _ filter _ bubbles.html
as web companies strive to tailor their services to our personal tastes , there 's a dangerous unintended consequence : we get trapped in a " filter bubble " and don 't get exposed to information that could challenge or broaden our worldview . eli pariser argues powerfully that this will ultimately prove to be bad for us and bad for democracy .
culture , global issues , journalism , politics , technology
1091
eli pariser : beware online " filter bubbles "
mark zuckerberg , a journalist was asking him a question about the news feed .
and the journalist was asking him , " why is this so important ? "
and zuckerberg said , " a squirrel dying in your front yard may be more relevant to your interests right now than people dying in africa . "
and i want to talk about what a web based on that idea of relevance might look like .
so when i was growing up in a really rural area in maine , the internet meant something very different to me .
it meant a connection to the world .
it meant something that would connect us all together .
and i was sure that it was going to be great for democracy and for our society .
but there 's this shift in how information is flowing online , and it 's invisible .
and if we don 't pay attention to it , it could be a real problem .
so i first noticed this in a place i spend a lot of time -- my facebook page .
i 'm progressive , politically -- big surprise -- but i 've always gone out of my way to meet conservatives .
i like hearing what they 're thinking about ; i like seeing what they link to ; i like learning a thing or two .
and so i was surprised when i noticed one day that the conservatives had disappeared from my facebook feed .
and what it turned out was going on was that facebook was looking at which links i clicked on , and it was noticing that , actually , i was clicking more on my liberal friends ' links than on my conservative friends ' links .
and without consulting me about it , it had edited them out .
they disappeared .
so facebook isn 't the only place that 's doing this kind of invisible , algorithmic editing of the web .
google 's doing it too .
if i search for something , and you search for something , even right now at the very same time , we may get very different search results .
even if you 're logged out , one engineer told me , there are 57 signals that google looks at -- everything from what kind of computer you 're on to what kind of browser you 're using to where you 're located -- that it uses to personally tailor your query results .
think about it for a second : there is no standard google anymore .
and you know , the funny thing about this is that it 's hard to see .
you can 't see how different your search results are from anyone else 's .
but a couple of weeks ago , i asked a bunch of friends to google " egypt " and to send me screen shots of what they got .
so here 's my friend scott 's screen shot .
and here 's my friend daniel 's screen shot .
when you put them side-by-side , you don 't even have to read the links to see how different these two pages are .
but when you do read the links , it 's really quite remarkable .
daniel didn 't get anything about the protests in egypt at all in his first page of google results .
scott 's results were full of them .
and this was the big story of the day at that time .
that 's how different these results are becoming .
so it 's not just google and facebook either .
this is something that 's sweeping the web .
there are a whole host of companies that are doing this kind of personalization .
yahoo news , the biggest news site on the internet , is now personalized -- different people get different things .
huffington post , the washington post , the new york times -- all flirting with personalization in various ways .
and this moves us very quickly toward a world in which the internet is showing us what it thinks we want to see , but not necessarily what we need to see .
as eric schmidt said , " it will be very hard for people to watch or consume something that has not in some sense been tailored for them . "
so i do think this is a problem .
and i think , if you take all of these filters together , you take all these algorithms , you get what i call a filter bubble .
and your filter bubble is your own personal , unique universe of information that you live in online .
and what 's in your filter bubble depends on who you are , and it depends on what you do .
but the thing is that you don 't decide what gets in .
and more importantly , you don 't actually see what gets edited out .
so one of the problems with the filter bubble was discovered by some researchers at netflix .
and they were looking at the netflix queues , and they noticed something kind of funny that a lot of us probably have noticed , which is there are some movies that just sort of zip right up and out to our houses .
they enter the queue , they just zip right out .
so " iron man " zips right out , and " waiting for superman " can wait for a really long time .
what they discovered was that in our netflix queues there 's this epic struggle going on between our future aspirational selves and our more impulsive present selves .
you know we all want to be someone who has watched " rashomon , " but right now we want to watch " ace ventura " for the fourth time .
so the best editing gives us a bit of both .
it gives us a little bit of justin bieber and a little bit of afghanistan .
it gives us some information vegetables ; it gives us some information dessert .
and the challenge with these kinds of algorithmic filters , these personalized filters , is that , because they 're mainly looking at what you click on first , it can throw off that balance .
and instead of a balanced information diet , you can end up surrounded by information junk food .
what this suggests is actually that we may have the story about the internet wrong .
in a broadcast society -- this is how the founding mythology goes -- in a broadcast society , there were these gatekeepers , the editors , and they controlled the flows of information .
and along came the internet and it swept them out of the way , and it allowed all of us to connect together , and it was awesome .
but that 's not actually what 's happening right now .
what we 're seeing is more of a passing of the torch from human gatekeepers to algorithmic ones .
and the thing is that the algorithms don 't yet have the kind of embedded ethics that the editors did .
so if algorithms are going to curate the world for us , if they 're going to decide what we get to see and what we don 't get to see , then we need to make sure that they 're not just keyed to relevance .
we need to make sure that they also show us things that are uncomfortable or challenging or important -- this is what ted does -- other points of view .
and the thing is , we 've actually been here before as a society .
in 1915 , it 's not like newspapers were sweating a lot about their civic responsibilities .
then people noticed that they were doing something really important .
that , in fact , you couldn 't have a functioning democracy if citizens didn 't get a good flow of information ,
that the newspapers were critical because they were acting as the filter , and then journalistic ethics developed .
it wasn 't perfect , but it got us through the last century .
and so now , we 're kind of back in 1915 on the web .
and we need the new gatekeepers to encode that kind of responsibility into the code that they 're writing .
i know that there are a lot of people here from facebook and from google -- larry and sergey -- people who have helped build the web as it is , and i 'm grateful for that .
but we really need you to make sure that these algorithms have encoded in them a sense of the public life , a sense of civic responsibility .
we need you to make sure that they 're transparent enough that we can see what the rules are that determine what gets through our filters .
and we need you to give us some control so that we can decide what gets through and what doesn 't .
because i think we really need the internet to be that thing that we all dreamed of it being .
we need it to connect us all together .
we need it to introduce us to new ideas and new people and different perspectives .
and it 's not going to do that if it leaves us all isolated in a web of one .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / al _ gore _ on _ averting _ climate _ crisis.html
with the same humor and humanity he exuded in < em > an inconvenient truth , < / em > al gore spells out 15 ways that individuals can address climate change immediately , from buying a hybrid to inventing a new , hotter " brand name " for global warming .
alternative energy , cars , climate change , culture , environment , global issues , politics , science , sustainability , technology
1
al gore on averting climate crisis
thank you so much , chris . and it 's truly a great honor to have the opportunity to come to this stage twice . i 'm extremely grateful .
i have been blown away by this conference , and i want to thank all of you for the many nice comments about what i had to say the other night .
and i say that sincerely , partly because -- -- i need that ! put yourselves in my position !
i flew on air force two for eight years .
now i have to take off my shoes or boots to get on an airplane !
i 'll tell you one quick story to illustrate what that 's been like for me .
it 's a true story -- every bit of this is true .
soon after tipper and i left the -- -- white house -- -- we were driving from our home in nashville to a little farm we have 50 miles east of nashville -- driving ourselves .
i know it sounds like a little thing to you , but -- -- i looked in the rearview mirror and all of a sudden it just hit me .
there was no motorcade back there .
you 've heard of phantom limb pain ? this was a rented ford taurus . it was dinnertime , and we started looking for a place to eat .
we were on i-40 . we got to exit 238 , lebanon , tennessee .
we got off the exit , started looking for a -- we found a shoney 's restaurant .
low-cost family restaurant chain , for those of you who don 't know it .
we went in and sat down at the booth , and the waitress came over ,
made a big commotion over tipper . she took our order , and then went to the couple in the booth next to us ,
and she lowered her voice so much i had to really strain to hear what she was saying .
she said " yes , that 's former vice president al gore and his wife tipper . " and the man said , " he 's come down a long way , hasn 't he ? " there 's been kind of a series of epiphanies .
the very next day , continuing a totally true story ,
i got on a g-5 to fly to africa to make a speech in nigeria , in the city of lagos , on the topic of energy .
i began the speech by telling them the story of what had just happened the day before in nashville .
i told it pretty much the same way i 've just shared it with you :
tipper and i were driving ourselves , shoney 's , low-cost family restaurant chain , what the man said -- they laughed .
i gave my speech , then went back out to the airport to fly back home .
i fell asleep on the plane , until during the middle of the night , we landed on the azores islands for refueling .
i woke up , they opened the door , i went out to get some fresh air ,
and i looked and there was a man running across the runway .
and he was waving a piece of paper , and he was yelling , " call washington ! call washington ! "
and i thought to myself , in the middle of the night , in the middle of the atlantic , what in the world could be wrong in washington ?
then i remembered it could be a bunch of things .
but what it turned out to be was that my staff was extremely upset because one of the wire services in nigeria had already written a story about my speech .
and it had already been printed in cities all across the united states of america
-- it was printed in monterey , i checked . and the story began , " former vice president al gore announced in nigeria yesterday , ' my wife tipper and i have opened a low-cost family restaurant , named shoney 's , and we are running it ourselves . ' " before i could get back to u.s. soil , david letterman and jay leno had already started in on -- one of them had me in a big white chef 's hat , tipper was saying , " one more burger , with fries ! "
three days later , i got a nice , long , handwritten letter from my friend and partner and colleague bill clinton saying , " congratulations on the new restaurant , al ! "
we like to celebrate each other 's successes in life .
i was going to talk about information ecology .
but i was thinking that since i plan to make a lifelong habit of coming back to ted , that maybe i could talk about that another time . chris anderson : it 's a deal !
al gore : i want to focus on what many of you have said you would like me to elaborate on .
what can you do about the climate crisis ? i want to start with -- i 'm going to show some new images , and i 'm going to recapitulate just four or five .
now , the slide show . i update the slide show every time i give it .
i add new images because i learn more about it every time i give it .
it 's like beachcombing , you know ? every time the tide comes in and out , you find some more shells .
just in the last two days , we got the new temperature records in january .
this is just for the united states of america . historical average for january is 31 degrees . last month was 39.5 degrees .
now , i know that you wanted some more bad news about the environment -- i 'm kidding -- but these are the recapitulation slides , and then i 'm going to go into new material about what you can do .
but i wanted to elaborate on a couple of these .
first of all , this is where we 're projected to go with the u.s. contribution to global warming , under business as usual . efficiency in end-use electricity and end-use of all energy is the low-hanging fruit . efficiency and conservation : it 's not a cost ; it 's a profit . the sign is wrong .
it 's not negative ; it 's positive . these are investments that pay for themselves .
but they are also very effective in deflecting our path .
cars and trucks -- i talked about that in the slideshow , but i want you to put it in perspective .
