it 's an easy , visible target of concern , and it should be , but there is more global warming pollution that comes from buildings than from cars and trucks .
cars and trucks are very significant , and we have the lowest standards in the world , and so we should address that . but it 's part of the puzzle .
other transportation efficiency is as important as cars and trucks !
renewables at the current levels of technological efficiency can make this much difference , and with what vinod , and john doerr , and others , many of you here -- a lot of people directly involved in this -- this wedge is going to grow much more rapidly than the current projection shows it .
carbon capture and sequestration -- that 's what ccs stands for -- is likely to become the killer app that will enable us to continue to use fossil fuels in a way that is safe .
not quite there yet .
ok . now , what can you do ? reduce emissions in your home .
most of these expenditures are also profitable .
insulation , better design , buy green electricity where you can .
i mentioned automobiles -- buy a hybrid . use light rail .
figure out some of the other options that are much better . it 's important .
be a green consumer . you have choices with everything you buy , between things that have a harsh effect or a much less harsh effect on the global climate crisis .
consider this . make a decision to live a carbon-neutral life . those of you who are good at branding , i 'd love to get your advice and help on how to say this in a way that connects with the most people .
it is easier than you think . it really is .
a lot of us in here have made that decision and it is really pretty easy .
it means : reduce your carbon dioxide emissions with the full range of choices that you make , and then purchase or acquire offsets for the remainder that you have not
completely reduced . and what it means is elaborated at climatecrisis.net. there is a carbon calculator . participant productions convened , with my active involvement , the leading software writers in the world on this arcane science of carbon calculation to construct a consumer-friendly carbon calculator .
you can very precisely calculate what your co2 emissions are , and then you will be given options to reduce .
and by the time the movie comes out in may , this will be updated to 2.0 and we will have click-through purchases of offsets .
next , consider making your business carbon-neutral . again , some of us have done that , and it 's not as hard as you think . integrate climate solutions into all of your innovations , whether you are from the technology , or entertainment , or design and architecture community .
invest sustainably . majora mentioned this .
listen , if you have invested money with managers who you compensate on the basis of their annual performance , don 't ever again complain about quarterly report ceo management .
over time , people do what you pay them to do . and if they judge how much they 're going to get paid on your capital that they 've invested , based on the short-term returns , you 're going to get short-term decisions .
a lot more to be said about that .
become a catalyst of change . teach others ; learn about it ; talk about it .
the movie comes out -- the movie is a movie version of the slideshow i gave two nights ago , except it 's a lot more entertaining . and it comes out in may .
many of you here have the opportunity to ensure that a lot of people see it .
consider sending somebody to nashville . pick well .
and i am personally going to train people to give this slideshow , re-purposed , with some of the personal stories obviously replaced with a generic approach ,
and -- it 's not just the slides , it 's what they mean . and it 's how they link together .
and so i 'm going to be conducting a course this summer for a group of people that are nominated by different folks to come and then give it , en masse , in communities all across the country ,
and we 're going to update the slideshow for all of them every single week to keep it right on the cutting edge .
working with larry lessig , it will be , somewhere in that process , posted with tools and limited-use copyrights , so that young people can remix it and do it in their own way .
where did anybody get the idea that you ought to stay arm 's length from politics ?
it doesn 't mean that if you are a republican that i 'm trying to convince you to be a democrat . we need republicans as well . this used to be a bipartisan issue , and i know that in this group it really is . become politically active .
make our democracy work the way it 's supposed to work .
support the idea of capping carbon dioxide emissions , global warming pollution , and trading it . here 's why : as long as the united states is out of the world system , it 's not a closed system .
once it becomes a closed system , with u.s. participation , then everybody who 's on a board of directors -- how many people here serve on the board of directors of a corporation ?
once it 's a closed system , you will have legal liability if you do not urge your ceo to get the maximum income from reducing and trading the carbon emissions that can be avoided . the market will work to solve this problem if we can accomplish this .
help with the mass persuasion campaign that will start this spring .
we have to change the minds of the american people . because presently the politicians do not have permission to do what needs to be done .
and in our modern country , the role of logic and reason no longer includes mediating between wealth and power the way it once did .
it 's now repetition of short , hot-button , 30-second , 28-second television ads .
we have to buy a lot of those ads .
let 's rebrand global warming , as many of you have suggested .
i like " climate crisis " instead of " climate collapse , " but again , those of you who are good at branding , i need your help on this .
somebody said the test we 're facing now , a scientist told me , is whether the combination of an opposable thumb and a neocortex is a viable combination .
that 's really true . i said the other night , and i 'll repeat now : this is not a political issue .
again , the republicans here , this shouldn 't be partisan .
you have more influence than some of us who are democrats do .
this is an opportunity . not just this , but connected to the ideas that are here , to bring more coherence to them .
we are one .
thank you very much , i appreciate it .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / carl _ safina _ the _ oil _ spill _ s _ unseen _ culprits _ victims.html
the gulf oil spill dwarfs comprehension , but we know this much : it 's bad . carl safina scrapes out the facts in this blood-boiling cross-examination , arguing that the consequences will stretch far beyond the gulf -- and many so-called solutions are making the situation worse .
disaster relief , energy , environment , oceans , oil , pollution
914
carl safina : the oil spill 's unseen culprits , victims
this is the ocean as i used to know it .
and i find that since i 've been in the gulf a couple of times , i really kind of am traumatized
because whenever i look at the ocean now , no matter where i am , even where i know none of the oil has gone , i sort of see slicks ,
and i 'm finding that i 'm very much haunted by it .
but what i want to talk to you about today is a lot of things that try to put all of this in context , not just about the oil eruption , but what it means and why it has happened .
first , just a little bit about me .
i 'm basically just a guy that likes to go fishing
ever since i was a little kid ,
and because i did , i wound up studying sea birds to try to stay in the coastal habitats that i so loved .
and now i mainly write books about how the ocean is changing ,
and the ocean is certainly changing very rapidly .
now we saw this kind of graphic earlier on , that we really live on a hard marble that has just a slight bit of wetness to it .
it 's like you dipped a marble in water .
and the same thing with the atmosphere : if you took all the atmosphere and rolled it up in a ball , you would get that little sphere of gas on the right .
so we live on the most fragile , little soap bubble you can imagine ,
a very sacred soap bubble , but one that is very , very easy to affect .
and all the burning of oil and coal and gas , all the fossil fuels , have changed the atmosphere greatly .
carbon dioxide level has gone up and up and up .
we 're warming the climate .
so the blowout in the gulf is just a little piece of a much larger problem that we have with the energy that we use to run civilization .
beyond warming , we have the problem of the oceans getting more acidified -- and already measurably so , and already affecting animals .
now in the laboratory , if you take a clam and you put it in the ph that is -- not 8.1 , which is the normal ph of seawater -- but 7.5 , it dissolves in about three days .
if you take a sea urchin larva from 8.1 , put it in a ph of 7.7 -- not a huge change -- it becomes deformed and dies .
and already , commercial oyster larvae are dying at large scales in some places .
coral reefs are growing slower in some places because of this problem .
so this really matters .
now , let 's take a little tour around the gulf a little bit .
one of the things that really impresses me about the people in the gulf : they are really , really aquatic people .
and they can handle water .
they can handle a hurricane that comes and goes . when the water goes down , they know what to do .
but when it 's something other than water , and their water habitat changes , they don 't have many options .
in fact , those entire communities really don 't have many options .
they don 't have another thing they can do .
they can 't go and work in the local hotel business because there isn 't one in their community .
if you go to the gulf and you look around , you do see a lot of oil .
you see a lot of oil on the ocean .
you see a lot of oil on the shoreline .
if you go to the site of the blowout , it looks pretty unbelievable .
it looks like you just emptied the oil pan in your car , and you just dumped it in the ocean .
and one of the really most incredible things , i think , is that there 's nobody out there trying to collect it at the site where it is densest .
parts of the ocean there look just absolutely apocalyptic .
you go in along the shore , you can find it everywhere .
it 's really messy .
if you go to the places where it 's just arriving , like the eastern part of the gulf , in alabama , there 's still people using the beach while there are people cleaning up the beach .
and they have a very strange way of cleaning up the beach . they 're not allowed to put more than 10 pounds of sand in a 50-gallon plastic bag .
they have thousands and thousands of plastic bags .
i don 't know what they 're going to do with all that stuff .
meanwhile , there are still people trying to use the beach .
they don 't see the little , tiny sign that says : " stay out of the water . "
their kids are in the water ; they 're getting tar all over their clothes and their sandals . it 's a mess .
if you go to the place where the oil has been a while , it 's an even bigger mess .
and there 's basically nobody there anymore , a few people trying to keep using it .
you see people who are really shell-shocked .
they are very hardworking people .
all they know about life is they get up in the morning , and if their engine starts , they go to work .
they always felt that they could rely on the assurances that nature brought them through the ecosystem of the gulf .
they 're finding that their world is really collapsing .
and so you can see , literally , signs of their shock , signs of their outrage , signs of their anger , and signs of their grief .
these are the things that you can see .
there 's a lot you can 't see , also , underwater .
what 's going on underwater ?
well , some people say there are oil plumes .
some people say there are not oil plumes .
and congressman markey asks , you know , " is it going to take a submarine ride to see if there are really oil plumes ? "
but i couldn 't take a submarine ride -- especially between the time i knew i was coming here and today -- so i had to do a little experiment myself to see if there was oil in the gulf of mexico .
so this is the gulf of mexico , sparkling place full of fish .
i created a little oil spill in the gulf of mexico . and i learned -- in fact , i confirmed -- the hypothesis that oil and water don 't mix until you add a dispersant ,
and then they start mixing .
and you add a little energy from the wind and the waves , and you get a big mess ,
a big mess that you can 't possibly clean , you can 't touch , you can 't extract and , i think most importantly -- this is what i think -- you can 't see it .
i think it 's being hidden on purpose .
now this is such a catastrophe and such a mess , that lots of stuff is leaking out on the edges of the information stream .
but as many people have said , there 's a large attempt to suppress what 's going on .
personally , i think that the dispersants are a major strategy to hide the body , because we put the murderer in charge of the crime scene .
but you can see it .
you can see where the oil is concentrated at the surface ,
and then it is attacked , because they don 't want the evidence , in my opinion .
okay .
we heard that bacteria eat oil ?
so do sea turtles .
when it breaks up , it has a long way to go before it gets down to bacteria .
turtles eat it . it gets in the gills of fish . these guys have to swim around through it .
i heard the most incredible story today when i was on the train coming here .
a writer named ted williams called me , and he was asking me a couple of questions about what i saw , because he 's writing an article for audubon magazine .
he said that he had been in the gulf a little while ago -- like about a week ago -- and a guy who had been a recreational fishing guide took him out to show him what 's going on .
that guide 's entire calendar year is canceled bookings .
he has no bookings left .
everybody wanted their deposit back . everybody is fleeing .
that 's the story of thousands of people .
but he told ted that on the last day he went out , a bottlenose dolphin suddenly appeared next to the boat ,
and it was splattering oil out its blowhole .
and he moved away because it was his last fishing trip , and he knew that the dolphins scare fish .
so he moved away from it , turned around a few minutes later , it was right next to the side of the boat again .
he said that in 30 years of fishing he had never seen a dolphin do that .
and he felt that --
he felt that it was coming to ask for help . sorry .
now , in the exxon valdez spill , about 30 percent of the killer whales died in the first few months .
their numbers have never recovered .
so the recovery rate of all this stuff is going to be variable .
it 's going to take longer for some things . and some things , i think , will probably come back a little faster .
the other thing about the gulf that is important is that there are a lot of animals that concentrate in the gulf at certain parts of the year .
so the gulf is a really important piece of water -- more important than a similar volume of water in the open atlantic ocean .
these tuna swim the entire ocean .
they get in the gulf stream . they go all the way to europe .
when it comes time to spawn , they come inside ,
and these two tuna that were tagged ,
you can see them on the spawning grounds very much right in the area of the slick .
they 're probably having , at the very least , a catastrophic spawning season this year .
i 'm hoping that maybe the adults are avoiding that dirty water .
they don 't usually like to go into water that is very cloudy anyway .
but these are really high-performance athletic animals .
i don 't know what this kind of stuff will do in their gills .
i don 't know if it 'll affect the adults .
if it 's not , it 's certainly affecting their eggs and larvae , i would certainly think .
but if you look at that graph that goes down and down and down ,
that 's what we 've done to this species through overfishing over many decades .
so while the oil spill , the leak , the eruption , is a catastrophe , i think it 's important to keep in mind that we 've done a lot to affect what 's in the ocean for a very , very long time .
it 's not like we 're starting with something that 's been okay .
we 're starting with something that 's had a lot of stresses and a lot of problems to begin with .
if you look around at the birds ,
there are a lot of birds in the gulf that concentrate in the gulf at certain times of the year , but then leave .
and they populate much larger areas .
so for instance , most of the birds in this picture are migratory birds .
they were all on the gulf in may , while oil was starting to come ashore in certain places .
down on the lower left there are ruddy turnstones and sanderlings .
they breed in the high arctic , and they winter down in southern south america .
but they concentrate in the gulf and then fan out all across the arctic .
i saw birds that breed in greenland in the gulf ,
so this is a hemispheric issue .
the economic effects go at least nationally in many ways . the biological effects are certainly hemispheric .
i think that this is one of the most absolutely mind-boggling examples of total unpreparedness that i can even think of .
even when the japanese bombed pearl harbor , at least they shot back .
and we just seem to be unable to figure out what to do .
there was nothing ready ,
and , you know , as we can see by what they 're doing . mainly what they 're doing is booms and dispersants .
the booms are absolutely not made for open water .
they don 't even attempt to corral the oil where it is most concentrated .
they get near shore . look at these two boats .
that one on the right is called fishing fool .
and i think , you know , that 's a great name for boats that think that they 're going to do anything to make a dent in this by dragging a boom between them when there are literally hundreds of thousands of square miles in the gulf right now with oil at the surface .
the dispersants make the oil go right under the booms .
the booms are only about 13 inches in diameter .
so it 's just absolutely crazy .
here are shrimp boats employed .
there are hundreds of shrimp boats employed to drag booms instead of nets .
here they are working .
you can see easily that all the oily water just goes over the back of the boom .
all they 're doing is stirring it .
it 's just ridiculous .
also , for all the shoreline that has booms -- hundreds and hundreds of miles of shoreline -- all of the shoreline that has booms , there 's adjacent shoreline that doesn 't have any booms .
there is ample opportunity for oil and dirty water to get in behind them .
and that lower photo , that 's a bird colony that has been boomed .
everybody 's trying to protect the bird colonies there .
well , as an ornithologist , i can tell you that birds fly , and that -- and that booming a bird colony doesn 't do it ; it doesn 't do it .
these birds make a living by diving into the water .
in fact , really what i think they should do , if anything -- they 're trying so hard to protect those nests -- actually , if they destroyed every single nest some of the birds would leave , and that would be better for them this year .
as far as cleaning them , i don 't mean to cast any aspersion on people cleaning birds .
it 's really , really important that we express our compassion .
i think that 's the most important thing that people have , is compassion .
it 's really important to get those images and to show it .
but really , where are those birds going to get released to ?
it 's like taking somebody out of a burning building , treating them for smoke inhalation and sending them back into the building , because the oil is still gushing .
i refuse to acknowledge this as anything like an accident .
i think that this is the result of gross negligence .
not just b.p .
b.p. operated very sloppily and very recklessly because they could .
and they were allowed to do so because of the absolute failure of oversight of the government that 's supposed to be our government , protecting us .
it turns out that -- you see this sign on almost every commercial vessel in the united states -- you know , if you spilled a couple of gallons of oil , you would be in big trouble .
and you have to really wonder who are the laws made for , and who has gotten above the laws .
now there are things that we can do in the future .
we could have the kinds of equipment that we would really need .
it would not take an awful lot to anticipate that after making 30,000 holes in the sea floor of the gulf of mexico looking for oil , oil might start coming out of one of them .
and you 'd have some idea of what to do .
that 's certainly one of the things we need to do .
but i think we have to understand where this leak really started from .
it really started from the destruction of the idea that the government is there because it 's our government , meant to protect the larger public interest .
so i think that the oil blowout , the bank bailout , the mortgage crisis and all these things are absolutely symptoms of the same cause .
we still seem to understand that at least we need the police to protect us from a few bad people .
and even though the police can be a little annoying at times -- giving us tickets and stuff like that -- nobody says that we should just get rid of them .
but in the entire rest of government right now and for the last at least 30 years , there has been a culture of deregulation that is caused directly by the people who we need to be protected from , buying the government out from under us .
now this has been a problem for a very , very long time .
you can see that corporations were illegal at the founding of america ,
and even thomas jefferson complained that they were already bidding defiance to the laws of our country .
okay , people who say they 're conservative , if they really wanted to be really conservative and really patriotic , they would tell these corporations to go to hell .
that 's what it would really mean to be conservative .
so what we really need to do is regain the idea that it 's our government safeguarding our interests
and regain a sense of unity and common cause in our country that really has been lost .
i think there are signs of hope .
we seem to be waking up a little bit .
the glass-steagall act -- which was really to protect us from the kind of thing that caused the recession to happen , and the bank meltdown and all that stuff that required the bailouts -- that was put in effect in 1933 , was systematically destroyed .
back in place ,
but the lobbyists are already there trying to weaken the regulations after the legislation has just passed .
so it 's a continued fight .
it 's a historic moment right now .
we 're either going to have an absolutely unmitigated catastrophe of this oil leak in the gulf , or we will make the moment we need out of this , as many people have noted today .
there 's certainly a common theme about needing to make the moment out of this .
we 've been through this before with other ways of offshore drilling .
the first offshore wells were called whales .
the first offshore drills were called harpoons .
we emptied the ocean of the whales at that time .
now are we stuck with this ?
ever since we lived in caves , every time we wanted any energy , we lit something on fire , and that is still what we 're doing . we 're still lighting something on fire every time we want energy .
and people say we can 't have clean energy because it 's too expensive .
who says it 's too expensive ?
people who sell us fossil fuels .
we 've been here before with energy , and people saying the economy cannot withstand a switch , because the cheapest energy was slavery .
energy is always a moral issue .
it 's an issue that is moral right now .
it 's a matter of right and wrong .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / sebastian _ seung.html
sebastian seung is mapping a massively ambitious new model of the brain that focuses on the connections between each neuron . he calls it our " connectome , " and it 's as individual as our genome -- and understanding it could open a new way to understand our brains and our minds .
brain , mind , science , technology
967
sebastian seung : i am my connectome
we live in in a remarkable time , the age of genomics .
your genome is the entire sequence of your dna .
your sequence and mine are slightly different .
that 's why we look different .
i 've got brown eyes ;
you might have blue or gray .
but it 's not just skin-deep .
the headlines tell us that genes can give us scary diseases , maybe even shape our personality , or give us mental disorders .
our genes seem to have awesome power over our destinies .
and yet , i would like to think that i am more than my genes .
what do you guys think ?
are you more than your genes ?
yes ?
i think some people agree with me .
i think we should make a statement .
i think we should say it all together .
all right : " i 'm more than my genes " -- all together .
everybody : i am more than my genes .
sebastian seung : what am i ?
i am my connectome .
now , since you guys are really great , maybe you can humor me and say this all together too .
right . all together now .
everybody : i am my connectome .
ss : that sounded great .
you know , you guys are so great , you don 't even know what a connectome is , and you 're willing to play along with me .
i could just go home now .
well , so far only one connectome is known , that of this tiny worm .
its modest nervous system consists of just 300 neurons .
and in the 1970s and ' 80s , a team of scientists mapped all 7,000 connections between the neurons .
in this diagram , every node is a neuron , and every line is a connection .
this is the connectome of the worm c. elegans .
your connectome is far more complex than this because your brain contains 100 billion neurons and 10,000 times as many connections .
there 's a diagram like this for your brain , but there 's no way it would fit on this slide .
your connectome contains one million times more connections than your genome has letters .
that 's a lot of information .
what 's in that information ?
we don 't know for sure , but there are theories .
since the 19th century , neuroscientists have speculated that maybe your memories -- the information that makes you , you -- maybe your memories are stored in the connections between your brain 's neurons .
and perhaps other aspects of your personal identity -- maybe your personality and your intellect -- maybe they 're also encoded in the connections between your neurons .
and so now you can see why i proposed this hypothesis : i am my connectome .
i didn 't ask you to chant it because it 's true ; i just want you to remember it .
and in fact , we don 't know if this hypothesis is correct , because we have never had technologies powerful enough to test it .
finding that worm connectome took over a dozen years of tedious labor .
and to find the connectomes of brains more like our own , we need more sophisticated technologies , that are automated , that will speed up the process of finding connectomes .
and in the next few minutes , i 'll tell you about some of these technologies , which are currently under development in my lab and the labs of my collaborators .
now you 've probably seen pictures of neurons before .
you can recognize them instantly by their fantastic shapes .
they extend long and delicate branches , and in short , they look like trees .
but this is just a single neuron .
in order to find connectomes , we have to see all the neurons at the same time .
so let 's meet bobby kasthuri , who works in the laboratory of jeff lichtman at harvard university .
bobby is holding fantastically thin slices of a mouse brain .
and we 're zooming in by a factor of 100,000 times to obtain the resolution , so that we can see the branches of neurons all at the same time .
except , you still may not really recognize them , and that 's because we have to work in three dimensions .
if we take many images of many slices of the brain and stack them up , we get a three-dimensional image .
and still , you may not see the branches .
so we start at the top , and we color in the cross-section of one branch in red ,
and we do that for the next slice and for the next slice .
and we keep on doing that , slice after slice .
if we continue through the entire stack , we can reconstruct the three-dimensional shape of a small fragment of a branch of a neuron .
and we can do that for another neuron in green .
and you can see that the green neuron touches the red neuron at two locations , and these are what are called synapses .
let 's zoom in on one synapse ,
and keep your eyes on the interior of the green neuron .
you should see small circles --
these are called vesicles .
they contain a molecule know as a neurotransmitter .
and so when the green neuron wants to communicate , it wants to send a message to the red neuron , it spits out neurotransmitter .
at the synapse , the two neurons are said to be connected like two friends talking on the telephone .
so you see how to find a synapse .
how can we find an entire connectome ?
well , we take this three-dimensional stack of images and treat it as a gigantic three-dimensional coloring book .
we color every neuron in , in a different color , and then we look through all of the images , find the synapses and note the colors of the two neurons involved in each synapse .
if we can do that throughout all the images , we could find a connectome .
now , at this point , you 've learned the basics of neurons and synapses .
and so i think we 're ready to tackle one of the most important questions in neuroscience : how are the brains of men and women different ?
according to this self-help book , guys brains are like waffles ; they keep their lives compartmentalized in boxes .
girls ' brains are like spaghetti ; everything in their life is connected to everything else .
you guys are laughing , but you know , this book changed my life .
but seriously , what 's wrong with this ?
you already know enough to tell me -- what 's wrong with this statement ?
it doesn 't matter whether you 're a guy or girl , everyone 's brains are like spaghetti .
or maybe really , really fine capellini with branches .
just as one strand of spaghetti contacts many other strands on your plate , one neuron touches many other neurons through their entangled branches .
one neuron can be connected to so many other neurons , because there can be synapses at these points of contact .
by now , you might have sort of lost perspective on how large this cube of brain tissue actually is .
and so let 's do a series of comparisons to show you .
i assure you , this is very tiny . it 's just six microns on a side .
so , here 's how it stacks up against an entire neuron .
and you can tell that , really , only the smallest fragments of branches are contained inside this cube .
and a neuron , well , that 's smaller than brain .
and that 's just a mouse brain --
it 's a lot smaller than a human brain .
so when show my friends this , sometimes they 've told me , " you know , sebastian , you should just give up .
neuroscience is hopeless . "
because if you look at a brain with your naked eye , you don 't really see how complex it is , but when you use a microscope , finally the hidden complexity is revealed .
in the 17th century , the mathematician and philosopher , blaise pascal , wrote of his dread of the infinite , his feeling of insignificance at contemplating the vast reaches of outer space .
and , as a scientist , i 'm not supposed to talk about my feelings --
too much information , professor .
but may i ?
i feel curiosity , and i feel wonder , but at times i have also felt despair .
why did i choose to study this organ that is so awesome in its complexity that it might well be infinite ?
it 's absurd .
how could we even dare to think that we might ever understand this ?
and yet , i persist in this quixotic endeavor .
and indeed , these days i harbor new hopes .
someday , a fleet of microscopes will capture every neuron and every synapse in a vast database of images .
and some day , artificially intelligent supercomputers will analyze the images without human assistance to summarize them in a connectome .
i do not know , but i hope that i will live to see that day ,
because finding an entire human connectome is one of the greatest technological challenges of all time .
it will take the work of generations to succeed .
at the present time , my collaborators and i , what we 're aiming for is much more modest -- just to find partial connectomes of tiny chunks of mouse and human brain .
but even that will be enough for the first tests of this hypothesis that i am my connectome .
for now , let me try to convince you of the plausibility of this hypothesis , that it 's actually worth taking seriously .
as you grow during childhood and age during adulthood , your personal identity changes slowly .
likewise , every connectome changes over time .
what kinds of changes happen ?
well , neurons , like trees , can grow new branches , and they can lose old ones .
synapses can be created , and they can be eliminated .
and synapses can grow larger , and they can grow smaller .
second question : what causes these changes ?
well , it 's true .
to some extent , they are programmed by your genes .
but that 's not the whole story , because there are signals , electrical signals , that travel along the branches of neurons and chemical signals that jump across from branch to branch .
these signals are called neural activity .
and there 's a lot of evidence that neural activity is encoding our thoughts , feelings and perceptions , our mental experiences .
and there 's a lot of evidence that neural activity can cause your connections to change .
and if you put those two facts together , it means that your experiences can change your connectome .
and that 's why every connectome is unique , even those of genetically identical twins .
the connectome is where nature meets nurture .
and it might true that just the mere act of thinking can change your connectome -- an idea that you may find empowering .
what 's in this picture ?
a cool and refreshing stream of water , you say .
what else is in this picture ?
do not forget that groove in the earth called the stream bed .
without it , the water would not know in which direction to flow .
and with the stream , i would like to propose a metaphor for the relationship between neural activity and connectivity .
neural activity is constantly changing .
it 's like the water of the stream ; it never sits still .
the connections of the brain 's neural network determines the pathways along which neural activity flows .
and so the connectome is like bed of the stream ;
but the metaphor is richer than that ,
because it 's true that the stream bed guides the flow of the water , but over long timescales , the water also reshapes the bed of the stream .
and as i told you just now , neural activity can change the connectome .
and if you 'll allow me to ascend to metaphorical heights , i will remind you that neural activity is the physical basis -- or so neuroscientists think -- of thoughts , feelings and perceptions .
and so we might even speak of the stream of consciousness .
neural activity is its water , and the connectome is its bed .
so let 's return from the heights of metaphor and return to science .
suppose our technologies for finding connectomes actually work .
how will we go about testing the hypothesis " i am my connectome ? "
well , i propose a direct test .
let us attempt to read out memories from connectomes .
consider the memory of long temporal sequences of movements , like a pianist playing a beethoven sonata .
according to a theory that dates back to the 19th century , such memories are stored as chains of synaptic connections inside your brain .
because , if the first neurons in the chain are activated , through their synapses they send messages to the second neurons , which are activated , and so on down the line , like a chain of falling dominoes .
and this sequence of neural activation is hypothesized to be the neural basis of those sequence of movements .
so one way of trying to test the theory is to look for such chains inside connectomes .
but it won 't be easy , because they 're not going to look like this .
they 're going to be scrambled up .
so we 'll have to use our computers to try to unscramble the chain .
and if we can do that , the sequence of the neurons we recover from that unscrambling will be a prediction of the pattern of neural activity that is replayed in the brain during memory recall .
and if that were successful , that would be the first example of reading a memory from a connectome .
what a mess --
have you ever tried to wire up a system as complex as this ?
i hope not .
but if you have , you know it 's very easy to make a mistake .
the branches of neurons are like the wires of the brain .
can anyone guess : what 's the total length of wires in your brain ?
i 'll give you a hint . it 's a big number .
i estimate , millions of miles ,
all packed in your skull .
and if you appreciate that number , you can easily see there is huge potential for mis-wiring of the brain .
and indeed , the popular press loves headlines like , " anorexic brains are wired differently , " or " autistic brains are wired differently . "
these are plausible claims , but in truth , we can 't see the brain 's wiring clearly enough to tell if these are really true .
and so the technologies for seeing connectomes will allow us to finally read mis-wiring of the brain , to see mental disorders in connectomes .
sometimes the best way to test a hypothesis is to consider its most extreme implication .
philosophers know this game very well .
if you believe that i am my connectome , i think you must also accept the idea that death is the destruction of your connectome .
i mention this because there are prophets today who claim that technology will fundamentally alter the human condition and perhaps even transform the human species .
one of their most cherished dreams is to cheat death by that practice known as cryonics .
if you pay 100,000 dollars , you can arrange to have your body frozen after death and stored in liquid nitrogen in one of these tanks in an arizona warehouse , awaiting a future civilization that is advanced to resurrect you .
should we ridicule the modern seekers of immortality , calling them fools ?
or will they someday chuckle over our graves ?
i don 't know --
i prefer to test their beliefs , scientifically .
i propose that we attempt to find a connectome of a frozen brain .
we know that damage to the brain occurs after death and during freezing .
the question is : has that damage erased the connectome ?
if it has , there is no way that any future civilization will be able to recover the memories of these frozen brains .
resurrection might succeed for the body , but not for the mind .
on the other hand , if the connectome is still intact , we cannot ridicule the claims of cryonics so easily .
i 've described a quest that begins in the world of the very small , and propels us to the world of the far future .
connectomes will mark a turning point in human history .
as we evolved from our ape-like ancestors on the african savanna , what distinguished us was our larger brains .
we have used our brains to fashion ever more amazing technologies .
eventually , these technologies will become so powerful that we will use them to know ourselves by deconstructing and reconstructing our own brains .
i believe that this voyage of self-discovery is not just for scientists , but for all of us .
and i 'm grateful for the opportunity to share this voyage with you today .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / toys _ from _ the _ future.html
the inventables guys , zach kaplan and keith schacht , demo some amazing new materials and how we might use them . look for squishy magnets , odor-detecting ink , " dry " liquid and a very surprising 10-foot pole .
business , creativity , design , industrial design , invention , materials , science , smell , technology , toy
385
zach kaplan and keith schacht demo toys from the future
zach kaplan : keith and i lead a research team .
we investigate materials and technologies that have unexpected properties . over the last three years , we found over 200 of these things , and so we looked back into our library and selected six we thought would be most surprising for ted .
of these six , the first one that we 're going to talk about is in the black envelope you 're holding .
it comes from a company in japan called geltech . now go ahead and open it up .
keith schacht : now be sure and take the two pieces apart .
what 's unexpected about this is that it 's soft , but it 's also a strong magnet .
zach and i have always been fascinated observing unexpected things like this .
we spent a long time thinking about why this is , and it 's just recently that we realized : it 's when we see something unexpected , it changes our understanding of the way things work .
as you 're seeing this gel magnet for the first time , if you assume that all magnets had to be hard , then seeing this surprised you and it changed your understanding of the way magnets could work .
zk : now , it 's important to understand what the unexpected properties are .
but to really think about the implications of what this makes possible , we found that it helps to think about how it could be applied in the world .
so , a first idea is to use it on cabinet doors .
if you line the sides of the cabinets using the gel material -- if a cabinet slams shut it wouldn 't make a loud noise , and in addition the magnets would draw the cabinets closed .
imagine taking the same material , but putting it on the bottom of a sneaker .
you know , this way you could go to the container store and buy one of those metal sheets that they hang on the back of your door , in your closet , and you could literally stick your shoes up instead of using a shelf .
for me , i really love this idea .
if you come to my apartment and see my closet , i 'm sure you 'd figure out why : it 's a mess .
ks : seeing the unexpected properties and then seeing a couple of applications -- it helps you see why this is significant , what the potential is .
but we 've found that the way we present our ideas it makes a big difference .
zk : it was like six months ago that keith and i were out in l.a. , and we were at starbucks having coffee with roman coppola .
he works on mostly music videos and commercials with his company , the directors bureau . as we were talking , roman told us that he 's kind of an inventor on the side .
and we were showing him the same gel magnet that you 're holding in your hand -- and you know , we shared the same ideas . and you could see it in his face :
roman starts to get really excited and he whips out this manila folder ; he opens it up and keith and i look in , and he starts showing us concepts that he 's been working on .
these things just get him really excited . and so we 're looking at these concepts , and we were just like , whoa , this guy 's good .
because the way that he presented the concept -- his approach was totally different than ours . he sold it to you as if it was for sale right now .
when we were going in the car back to the airport , we were thinking : why was this so powerful ?
and as we thought about it more , we realized that it let you fill in all the details about the experience , just as if you saw it on tv . so , for ted we decided to take our favorite idea for the gel magnet and work with roman and his team at the directors bureau to create a commercial for a product from the future .
narrator : do you have a need for speed ?
inventables water adventures dares you to launch yourself on a magnetically-levitating board down a waterslide so fast , so tall , that when you hit the bottom , it uses brakes to stop .
aqua rocket : coming this summer .
ks : now , we showed the concept to a few people before this , and they asked us , when 's it coming out ?
so i just wanted to let you know , it 's not actually coming out , just the concept is .
zk : so now , when we dream up these concepts , it 's important for us to make sure that they work from a technical standpoint .
so i just want to quickly explain how this would work .
this is the magnetically-levitating board that they mentioned in the commercial .
the gel that you 're holding would be lining the bottom of the board .
now this is important for two reasons .
one : the soft properties of the magnet that make it so that , if it were to hit the rider in the head , it wouldn 't injure him .
in addition , you can see from the diagram on the right , the underpart of the slide would be an electromagnet .
so this would actually repel the rider a little bit as you 're going down .
the force of the water rushing down , in addition to that repulsion force , would make this slide go faster than any slide on the market .
it 's because of this that you need the magnetic braking system .
when you get to the very bottom of the slide -- -- the rider passes through an aluminum tube .
and i 'm going to kick it to keith to explain why that 's important from a technical standpoint .
ks : so i 'm sure all you engineers know that even though aluminum is a metal , it 's not a magnetic material . but something unexpected happens when you drop a magnet down an aluminum tube .
so we set up a quick experiment here to show that to you . now , you see the magnet fell really slowly .
now , i 'm not going to get into the physics of it , but all you need to know is that the faster the magnet 's falling , the greater the stopping force .
zk : now , our next technology is actually a 10-foot pole ,
and i have it right here in my pocket .
there 're a few different versions of it .
ks : some of them automatically unroll like this one .
they can be made to automatically roll up , or they can be made stable , like zach 's , to hold any position in between .
zk : as we were talking to the vendor -- to try to learn about how you could apply these , or how they 're being applied currently -- he was telling us that , in the military they use this one so soldiers can keep it on their chests -- very concealed -- and then , when they 're out on the field , erect it as an antenna to clearly send signals back to the base .
in our brainstorms , we came up with the idea you could use it for a soccer goal : so at the end of the game , you just roll up the goal and put it in your gym bag .
ks : now , the interesting thing about this is , you don 't have to be an engineer to appreciate why a 10-foot pole that can fit in your pocket is so interesting .
so we decided to go out onto the streets of chicago and ask a few people on the streets what they thought you could do with this .
man : i clean my ceiling fans with that and i get the spider webs off my house -- i do it that way .
woman : i 'd make my very own walking stick .
woman : i would create a ladder to use to get up on top of the tree .
woman : an olive server .
man : some type of extension pole -- like what the painters use .
woman : i would make a spear that , when you went deep sea diving , you could catch the fish really fast , and then roll it back up , and you could swim easier ... yeah .
zk : now , for our next technology we 're going to do a little demonstration , and so we need a volunteer from the audience .
you sir , come on up .
come on up . tell everybody your name .
steve jurvetson : steve .
zk : it 's steve . all right steve , now , follow me .
we need you to stand right in front of the ted sign .
right there . that 's great .
and hold onto this . good luck to you .
ks : no , not yet .
zk : i 'd just like to let you all know that this presentation has been brought to you by target .
ks : little bit -- that 's perfect , just perfect .
now , zach , we 're going to demonstrate a water gun fight from the future .
so here , come on up to the front . all right , so now if you 'll see here -- no , no , it 's ok .
so , describe to the audience the temperature of your shirt . go ahead .
sj : it 's cold .
ks : now the reason it 's cold is that 's it 's not actually water loaded into these squirt guns -- it 's a dry liquid developed by 3m .
it 's perfectly clear , it 's odorless , it 's colorless .
it 's so safe you could drink this stuff .
and the reason it feels cold is because it evaporates 25 times faster than water .
all right , well thanks for coming up .
zk : wait , wait , steven -- before you go we filled this with the dry liquid so during the break you can shoot your friends .
sj : excellent , thank you .
ks : thanks for coming up . let 's give him a big round of applause .
so what 's the significance of this dry liquid ?
early versions of the fluid were actually used on a cray supercomputer .
now , the unexpected thing about this is that zach could stand up on stage and drench a perfectly innocent member of the audience without any concern that we 'd damage the electronics , that we 'd get him wet , that we 'd hurt the books or the computers . it works because it 's non-conductive .
so you can see here , you can immerse a whole circuit board in this and it wouldn 't cause any damage .
you can circulate it to draw the heat away .
but today it 's most widely used in office buildings -- in the sprinkler system -- as a fire-suppression fluid .
again , it 's perfectly safe for people . it puts out the fires , doesn 't hurt anything .
but our favorite idea for this was using it in a basketball game . so during halftime , it could rain down on the players , cool everyone down , and in a matter of minutes it would dry . wouldn 't hurt the court .
zk : our next technology comes to us from a company in japan called sekisui chemical . one of their r & d engineers was working on a way to make plastic stiffer .
while he was doing this , he noticed an unexpected thing .
we have a video to show you .
ks : so you see there , it didn 't bounce back . now , this was an unintended side effect of some experiments they were doing .
it 's technically called , " shape-retaining property . " now , think about your interactions with aluminum foil .
shape-retaining is common in metal : you bend a piece of aluminum foil , and it holds its place . contrast that with a plastic garbage can -- and you can push in the sides and it always bounces back .
zk : for example , you could make a watch that wraps around your wrist , but doesn 't use a buckle .
taking it a little further , if you wove those strips together -- kind of like a little basket -- you could make a shape-retaining sheet , and then you could embed it in a cloth : so you could make a picnic sheet that wraps around the table , so that way on a windy day it wouldn 't blow away .
for our next technology , it 's hard to observe the unexpected property by itself , because it 's an ink .
so , we 've prepared a video to show it applied to paper .
ks : as this paper is bending , the resistance of the ink changes .
so with simple electronics , you can detect how much the page is being bent .
now , to think about the potential for this , think of all the places ink is supplied : on business cards , on the back of cereal boxes , board games . any place you use ink , you could change the way you interact with it .
zk : so my favorite idea for this is to apply the ink to a book .
this could totally change the way that you interface with paper .
you see the dark line on the side and the top . as you turn the pages of the book , the book can actually detect what page you 're on , based on the curvature of the pages .
in addition , if you were to fold in one of the corners , then you could program the book to actually email you the text on the page for your notes .
ks : for our last technology , we worked again with roman and his team at the directors bureau to develop a commercial from the future to explain how it works .
old milk carton : oh yeah , it smells good .
who are you ?
new milk carton : i 'm new milk .
omc : i used to smell like you .
narrator : fresh watch , from inventables dairy farms .
packaging that changes color when your milk 's gone off .
don 't let milk spoil your morning .
zk : now , this technology was developed by these two guys : professor ken suslick and neil rakow , of the university of illinois .
ks : now the way it works : there 's a matrix of color dyes .
and these dyes change color in response to odors .
so the smell of vanilla , that might change the four on the left to brown and the one on the right to yellow . this matrix can produce thousands of different color combinations to represent thousands of different smells .
but like in the milk commercial , if you know what odor you want to detect , then they can formulate a specific dye to detect just that odor .
zk : right . it was that that started a conversation with professor suslick and myself , and he was explaining to me the things that this is making possible ,
beyond just detecting spoiled food . it 's really where the significance of it lies .
his company actually did a survey of firemen all across the country to try to learn , how are they currently testing the air when they respond to an emergency scene ?
and he kind of comically explained that time after time , what the firemen would say is : they would rush to the scene of the crime ; they would look around ;
if there were no dead policemen , it was ok to go .
i mean , this is a true story . they 're using policemen as canaries .
but more seriously , they determined that you could develop a device that can smell better than the humans , and say if it 's safe for the firemen .
in addition , he 's spun off a company from the university called chemsensing , where they 're working on medical equipment . so , a patient can come in and actually blow into their device .
by detecting the odor of particular bacteria , or viruses , or even lung cancer , the dots will change and they can use software to analyze the results .
this can radically improve the way that doctors diagnose patients .
currently , they 're using a method of trial and error , but this could tell you precisely what disease you have .
ks : so that was the six we had for you today , but i hope you 're starting to see why we find these things so fascinating .
because every one of these six changed our understanding of what was possible in the world . prior to seeing this , we would have assumed : a 10-foot pole couldn 't fit in your pocket ;
something as inexpensive as ink couldn 't sense the way paper is being bent ;
every one of these things -- and we 're constantly trying to find more .
zk : this is something that keith and i really enjoy doing .
i 'm sure it 's obvious to you now , but it was actually yesterday that i was reminded of why . i was having a conversation with steve jurvetson , over downstairs by the escalators , and he was telling me that when chris sent out that little box , one of the items in it was the hydrophobic sand -- the sand that doesn 't get wet . he said that he was playing with it with his son .
and you know , his son was mesmerized , because he would dunk it in the water , he would take it out and it was bone dry . a few weeks later , he said that his son was playing with a lock of his mother 's hair , and he noticed that there were some drops of water on the hair .
and he took the thing and he looked up to steve and he said , " look , hydrophobic string . "
i mean , after hearing that story -- that really summed it up for me .
thank you very much .
ks : thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / dan _ barber _ s _ surprising _ foie _ gras _ parable.html
at the taste3 conference , chef dan barber tells the story of a small farm in spain that has found a humane way to produce foie gras . raising his geese in a natural environment , farmer eduardo sousa embodies the kind of food production barber believes in .
entertainment , food , global issues , sustainability
406
dan barber 's foie gras parable
i went to spain a few months ago and i had the best foie gras of my life .
the best culinary experience of my life .
because what i saw , i 'm convinced , is the future of cooking .
ridiculous , right ?
foie gras and the future of cooking .
there 's not a food today that 's more maligned than foie gras , right ?
i mean , it 's crucified .
it was outlawed in chicago for a while .
it 's pending here in california , and just recently in new york .
it 's like if you 're a chef and you put it on your menu , you risk being attacked .
really , it happened here in san francisco to a famous chef .
i 'm not saying that there 's not a rationale for being opposed to foie gras .
the reasons usually just boil down to the gavage , which is the force feeding .
basically you take a goose or a duck and you force feed a ton of grain down its throat .
more grain in a couple of weeks than it would ever get in a lifetime .
its liver expands by eight times .
suffice to say it 's like -- it 's not the prettiest picture of sustainable farming .
the problem for us chefs is that it 's so freakin ' delicious .
i mean , i love the stuff .
it is fatty , it 's sweet , it 's silky , it 's unctuous .
it makes everything else you put it with taste incredible .
can we produce a menu that 's delicious without foie gras ?
yes , sure .
you can also bike the tour de france without steroids , right ?
not a lot of people are doing it .
and for good reason .
so several months ago , a friend of mine sent me this link to this guy , eduardo sousa .
eduardo is doing what he calls natural foie gras .
natural foie gras .
what 's natural about foie gras ?
to take advantage of when the temperature drops in the fall , geese and ducks gorge on food to prepare for the harsh realities of winter .
and the rest of the year they 're free to roam around eduardo 's land and eat what they want .
so no gavage , no force feeding , no factory-like conditions , no cruelty .
and it 's shockingly not a new idea .
his great-granddad started -- pateria de sousa -- in 1812 .
and they 've been doing it quietly ever since .
that is until last year , when eduardo won the coup de coeur , the coveted french gastronomic prize .
it 's like the olympics of food products .
he placed first for his foie gras .
big , big problem .
as he said to me , that really pissed the french off .
he said it sort of gleefully .
it was all over the papers .
i read about it . it was in le monde .
" spanish chef accused ... " -- and the french accused him .
" spanish chef accused of cheating . "
they accused him of paying off the judges .
they implicated actually , the spanish government , amazingly .
huh , amazing .
a huge scandal for a few weeks .
couldn 't find a shred of evidence .
now , look at the guy .
he doesn 't look like a guy who 's paying off french judges for his foie gras .
so that died down , and very soon afterward , new controversy .
he shouldn 't win because it 's not foie gras .
it 's not foie gras because it 's not gavage .
there 's no force feeding .
so by definition , he 's lying and should be disqualified .
as funny as it sounds , articulating it now and reading about it -- actually , if we had talked about it before this controversy , i would have said , " that 's kind of true . "
you know , foie gras by definition , force feeding , it 's gavage , and that 's what you get when you want foie gras .
that is , until i went to eduardo 's farm in extremadura , 50 miles north of seville , right on the portugal border .
i saw first-hand a system that is incredibly complex and then at the same time , like everything beautiful in nature , is utterly simple .
and he said to me , really from the first moment , my life 's work is to give the geese what they want .
he repeated that about 50 times in the two days i was with him .
i 'm just here to give the geese what they want .
actually , when i showed up he was lying down with the geese with his cell phone
taking pictures of them
like his children in the grass .
amazing .
he 's really just in love with -- he 's at one with -- he 's the goose whisperer .
and when i was speaking to him , you know , i thought , like i 'm speaking to you now , right , but sort of in the middle of my questions , my excited questions , because the more i got to know him and his system , the more exciting this whole idea became .
he kept going like this to me .
and i thought , ok , excited jew from new york , right ?
i 'm talking a little too aggressively , whatever , so you know , i slowed down .
and finally , by the end of the day i was like , ed-uar-do , you know like this ?
but he was still going like this .
i figured it out .
i was speaking too loudly .
so i hushed my voice .
i kind of like asked these questions and chatted with him through a translator in kind of a half whisper .
and he stopped doing this .
and amazingly , the geese who were on the other side of the paddock when i was around -- " get the hell away from this kid ! " --
when i lowered my voice , they all came right up to us .
right up to us , like right up to here .
right along the fence line .
and fence line was amazing in itself .
the fence -- like this conception of fence that we have it 's totally backward with him .
the electricity on this fiberglass fence is only on the outside .
he rewired it . he invented it .
i 've never seen it . have you ?
you fence in animals . you electrify the inside .
he doesn 't .
he electrifies only the outside .
why ?
because he said to me that he felt like the geese -- and he proved this actually , not just a conceit , he proved this -- the geese felt manipulated when they were imprisoned in their little paddocks .
even though they were imprisoned in this garden of eden with figs and everything else .
he felt like they felt manipulated .
so he got rid of the electricity , he got rid of current on the inside and kept it on the outside , so it would protect them against coyotes and other predators .
now , what happened ?
they ate , and he showed me on a chart , how they ate about 20 percent more feed to feed their livers .
the landscape is incredible .
i mean , his farm is incredible .
it really is the garden of eden .
there 's figs and everything else there for the taking .
and the irony of ironies is because extremadura , the area -- what does extremadura mean ?
extra hard land , right ?
extra difficult . extra hard .
but over four generations , he and his family have literally transformed this extra hard land into a tasting menu . upgrades the life for these geese .
and they are allowed to take whatever they want .
another irony , the double irony is that on the figs and the olives , eduardo can make more money selling those than he can on the foie gras .
he doesn 't care .
he lets them take what they want and he says , " usually , it 's about 50 percent . they 're very fair . "
the other 50 percent , he takes and he sells and he makes money on them .
part of the income for his farm .
a big part of his income for his farm .
but he never controls it .
they get what they want , they leave the rest for me and i sell it .
his biggest obstacle , really , was the marketplace , which demands these days bright yellow foie gras .
that 's how i 've been trained .
you want to look and see what good foie gras is , it 's got to be bright yellow .
it 's the indication that it 's the best foie gras .
well , because he doesn 't force feed , because he doesn 't gavage tons of corn , his livers were pretty grey .
or they were .
but he found this wild plant called the lupin bush .
the lupin bush , it 's all around extremadura .
he let it go to seed , he took the seeds , he planted it on his 30 acres , all around .
and the geese love the lupin bush .
not for the bush , but for the seeds .
and when they eat the seeds , their foie gras turns yellow .
radioactive yellow .
bright yellow .
of the highest quality foie gras yellow i 've ever seen .
so i 'm listening to all this , you know , and i 'm like , is this guy for real ? is he making some of this up ?
is he like , you know -- because he seemed to have an answer for everything , and it was always nature .
it was never him .
and i was like , you know , i always get a little , like , weirded out by people who deflect everything away from themselves .
because , really , they want you to look at themselves , right ?
but he deflected everything away from his ingenuity into working with his landscape .
so it 's like , here i am , i 'm on the fence about this guy , but increasingly , eating up his every word .
and we 're sitting there , and i hear [ clapping ] from a distance , so i look over .
and he grabs my arm and the translator 's , and ducks us under a bush and says , " watch this . "
" shush , " he says again for the 500th time to me .
" shush , watch this . "
and this squadron of geese come over .
[ clapping ] and they 're getting louder , louder , louder , like really loud , right over us .
and like airport traffic control , as they start to go past us they 're called back -- and they 're called back and back and back .
and then they circle around .
and his geese are calling up now to the wild geese .
[ clapping ] and the wild geese are calling down .
[ clapping ] and it 's getting louder and louder and they circle and circle and they land .
and i 'm just saying , " no way . "
no way .
and i look at eduardo , who 's near tears looking at this , and i say , " you 're telling me that your geese are calling to the wild geese to say come for a visit ? "
and he says , " no , no , no .
they 've come to stay . "
they 've come to stay ?
it 's like the dna of a goose is to fly south in the winter , right ?
i said that . i said " isn 't that what they 're put on this earth for ?
to fly south in the winter and north when it gets warm ? "
he said , " no , no , no .
their dna is to find the conditions that are conducive to life .
to happiness .
they find it here .
they don 't need anything more . "
they stop . they mate with his domesticated geese , and his flock continues .
think about that for a minute .
it 's brilliant , right ?
imagine -- i don 't know , imagine a hog farm in , like , north carolina , and a wild pig comes upon a factory farm and decides to stay .
so how did it taste ?
i finally got to taste it before i left .
he took me to his neighborhood restaurant and he served me some of his foie gras , confit de foie gras .
it was incredible .
and the problem with saying that , of course , is that you know , at this point it risks hyperbole really easily .
and i 'd like to make a metaphor , but i don 't have one really .
i was drinking this guy 's kool-aid so much , he could have served me goose feathers and i would have been like , this guy 's a genius , you know ?
i 'm really in love with him at this point .
but it truly was the best foie gras of my life .
so much so that i don 't think i had ever really had foie gras until that moment .
i 'd had something that was called foie gras .
but this was transformative . really transformative .
and i say to you , i might not stick to this , but i don 't think i 'll ever serve foie gras on my menu again because of that taste experience with eduardo .
it was sweet , it was unctuous .
it had all the qualities of foie gras , but its fat had a lot of integrity and a lot of honesty .
and you could taste herbs , you could taste spices .
and i kept -- i said , you know , i swear to god i tasted star anise .
i was sure of it .
and i 'm not like some super taster , you know ?
but i can taste things .
there 's 100 percent star anise in there .
and he says , " no . "
and i ended up like going down the spices , and finally , it was like , ok , salt and pepper , thinking he 's salted and peppered his liver .
but no .
he takes the liver when he harvests the foie gras , he sticks them in this jar
and he confits it .
no salt , no pepper , no oil , no spices .
what ?
we went back out for the final tour of the farm , and he showed me the wild pepper plants and the plants that he made sure existed on his farm for salinity .
he doesn 't need salt and pepper .
and he doesn 't need spices , because he 's got this potpourri of herbs and flavors
that his geese love to gorge on .
i turned to him at the end of the meal , and it 's a question i asked several times , and he hadn 't , kind of , answered me directly , but i said , " now look , you 're in spain , some of the greatest chefs in the world are -- ferran adria , the preeminent chef of the world today , not that far from you .
how come you don 't give him this ?
how come no one 's really heard of you ? "
and it may be because of the wine , or it may be because of my excitement , he answered me directly and he said , " because chefs don 't deserve my foie gras . "
and he was right .
he was right .
chefs take foie gras and they make it their own .
they create a dish where all the vectors point at us .
with eduardo it 's about the expression of nature .
and as he said , i think fittingly , it 's a gift from god , with god saying , you 've done good work .
simple .
i flew home , i 'm on the flight with my little black book and i took , you know , pages and pages of notes about it .
i really was moved .
and in the corner of one of these -- one of my notes , is this note that says , when asked , what do you think of conventional foie gras ?
what do you think of foie gras that 99.99999 percent of the world eats ?
he said , " i think it 's an insult to history . "
and i wrote , insult to history .
i 'm on the plane and i 'm just tearing my hair out .
it 's like , why didn 't i follow up on that ?
what the hell does that mean ?
insult to history .
so i did some research when i got back , and here 's what i found .
the history of foie gras .
jews invented foie gras .
true story .
true story .
by accident .
they were looking for an alternative to schmaltz .
gotten sick of the chicken fat .
they were looking for an alternative .
and they saw in the fall that there was this natural , beautiful , sweet , delicious fat from geese .
and they slaughtered them , used the fat throughout the winter for cooking .
the pharaoh got wind of this -- this is true , right off the internet .
the pharaoh got -- i swear to god .
the pharaoh got wind of this and wanted to taste it .
he tasted it and fell in love with it .
he started demanding it .
and he didn 't want it just in the fall , he wanted it all year round .
and he demanded that the jews supply enough for everyone .
and the jews , fearing for their life , had to come up with an ingenious idea , or at least try and satisfy the pharaoh 's wishes , of course .
and they invented , what ? gavage .
they invented gavage in a great moment of fear for their lives , and they provided the pharaoh with gavage liver , and the good stuff they kept for themselves .
supposedly , anyway . i believe that one .
that 's the history of foie gras .
and if you think about it , it 's the history of industrial agriculture .
it 's the history of what we eat today .
most of what we eat today .
mega-farms , feed lots , chemical amendments , long-distance travel , food processing .
all of it , our food system .
that 's also an insult to history .
it 's an insult to the basic laws of nature and of biology .
whether we 're talking about beef cattle or we 're talking about chickens , or we 're talking about broccoli or brussels sprouts , or in the case of this morning 's new york times , catfish -- which wholesale are going out of business .
whatever it is , it 's a mindset that is reminiscent of general motors .
it 's rooted in extraction .
take more , sell more , waste more .
and for the future it won 't serve us .
jonas salk has a great quote .
he said , " if all the insects disappeared , life on earth as we know it would disappear within 50 years .
if human beings disappeared , life on earth as we know it would flourish . "
and he 's right .
we need now to adopt a new conception of agriculture .
really new .
one in which we stop treating the planet as if it were some kind of business in liquidation .
and stop degrading resources under the guise of cheap food .
we can start by looking to farmers like eduardo .
farmers that rely on nature for solutions , for answers , rather than imposing solutions on nature .
listening as janine benyus , one of my favorite writers and thinkers about this topic says , " listening to nature 's operating instructions . "
that 's what eduardo does , and does so brilliantly .
and what he showed me and what he can show all of us , i think , is that the great thing for chefs , the great blessing for chefs , and for people that care about food and cooking , is that the most ecological choice for food is also the most ethical choice for food .
whether we 're talking about brussels sprouts or foie gras .
and it 's also almost always , and i haven 't found an example otherwise , but almost always , the most delicious choice .
that 's serendipitous .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / amit _ sood _ building _ a _ museum _ of _ museums _ on _ the _ web.html
imagine being able to see artwork in the greatest museums around the world without leaving your chair . driven by his passion for art , amit sood tells the story of how he developed art project to let people do just that .
art , arts , design , technology
1144
amit sood : building a museum of museums on the web
my name is amit .
and 18 months ago , i had another job at google , and i pitched this idea of doing something with museums and art to my boss who 's actually here , and she allowed me to do it .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun , negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i 'm going to focus on the demo .
there are a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal story is explained very simply on the slide , and it 's access .
and i grew up in india .
i had a great education -- i 'm not complaining -- but i didn 't have access to a lot of these museums and these artworks .
and so when i started traveling and going to these museums , i started learning a lot .
and while working at google , i tried to put this desire to make it more accessible with technology together .
so we formed a team , a great team of people , and we started doing this .
i 'm going to probably get into the demo and then tell you a couple of the interesting things we 've had since launch .
so , simple : you come to googleartproject.com .
you look around at all these museums here .
you 've got the uffizi , you 've got the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i 'm going to actually get to one of my favorites , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
two ways of going in -- very simple .
click and , bang , you 're in this museum .
it doesn 't matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn 't really matter .
you move around , you have fun .
you want to navigate around the museum ?
open the plan up , and , in one click , jump .
you 're in there , you want to go to the end of the corridor .
keep going . have fun .
explore .
thanks . i haven 't come to the best part .
so now i 'm in front of one of my favorite paintings , " the harvesters " by pieter bruegel at the met .
i see this plus sign .
if the museum has given us the image , you click on it .
now this is one of the images .
so this is all of the meta-data information .
for those of you who are truly interested in art , you can click this -- but i 'm going to click this off right now .
and this is one of these images that we captured in what we call gigapixel technology .
so this image , for example , has close to , i think , around 10 billion pixels .
and i get a lot of people asking me : " what do you get for 10 billion pixels ? " so i 'm going to try and show you what you really get for 10 billion pixels .
you can zoom around very simply .
you see some fun stuff happening here .
i love this guy ; his expression is priceless .
but then you really want to go deep .
and so i started playing around , and i found something going on over here .
and i was like , " hold on . that sounds interesting . " went in , and i started noticing that these kids were actually beating something .
i did a little research , spoke to a couple of my contacts at the met , and actually found out that this is a game called squall , which involves beating a goose with a stick on shrove tuesday .
and apparently it was quite popular .
i don 't know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
now just to get really deep in , you can really get to the cracks .
now just to give you some perspective , i 'm going to zoom out so you really see what you get .
here is where we were , and this is the painting .
the best is yet to come -- so in a second .
so now let 's just quickly jump into the moma , again in new york .
so another one of my favorites , " the starry night . "
now the example i showed you was all about finding details .
but what if you want to see brush strokes ?
and what if you want to see how van gogh actually created this masterpiece ?
you zoom in . you really go in .
i 'm going to go to one of my favorite parts in this painting , and i 'm really going to get to the cracks .
this is " the starry night , " i think , never seen like this before .
i 'm going to show you my other favorite feature .
there 's a lot of other stuff here , but i don 't have time .
this is the real cool part . it 's called collections .
any one of you , anybody -- doesn 't matter if you 're rich , if you 're poor , if you have a fancy house -- doesn 't matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- create your own collection across all these images .
very simply , you go in -- and i 've created this , called the power of zoom -- you can just zoom around .
this is " the ambassadors , " based in the national gallery .
you can annotate the stuff , send it to your friends and really get a conversation going about what you 're feeling when you go through these masterpieces .
so i think , in conclusion , for me , the main thing is that all the amazing stuff here does not really come from google .
it doesn 't , in my opinion , even come from the museums .
i probably shouldn 't say that .
it really comes from these artists .
and that 's been my humbling experience in this .
i mean , i hope in this digital medium that we do justice to their artwork and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question i get asked nowadays is , " did you do this to replicate the experience of going to a museum ? " and the answer is no .
it 's to supplement the experience .
and that 's it . thank you .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / philippe _ starck _ thinks _ deep _ on _ design.html
designer philippe starck -- with no pretty slides to show -- spends 18 minutes reaching for the very roots of the question " why design ? " listen carefully for one perfect mantra for all of us , genius or not .
design , humanity , humor , philosophy , storytelling
197
philippe starck thinks deep on design
you will understand nothing with my type of english .
it 's good for you because you can have a break after all these fantastic people .
i must tell you i am like that , not very comfortable , because usually , in life , i think my job is absolutely useless .
i mean , i feel useless .
now after carolyn , and all the other guys , i feel like shit .
and definitively , i don 't know why i am here , but -- you know the nightmare you can have , like you are an impostor , you arrive at the opera , and they push you , " you must sing ! "
i don 't know .
so , so , because i have nothing to show , nothing to say , we shall try to speak about something else .
we can start , if you want , by understanding -- it 's just to start , it 's not interesting , but -- how i work .
when somebody comes to me and ask for what i am known , i mean , yes , lemon squeezer , toilet brush , toothpick , beautiful toilet seats , and why not -- a toothbrush ?
i don 't try to design the toothbrush .
i don 't try to say , " oh , that will be a beautiful object , " or something like that .
that doesn 't interest me .
because there is different types of design .
the one , we can call it the cynical design , that means the design invented by raymond loewy in the ' 50s , who said , what is ugly is a bad sale , la laideur se vend mal , which is terrible .
it means the design must be just the weapon for marketing , for producer to make product more sexy , like that , they sell more : it 's shit , it 's obsolete , it 's ridiculous .
i call that the cynical design .
after , there is the narcissistic design : it 's a fantastic designer who designs only for other fantastic designers .
after , there is people like me , who try to deserve to exist , and who are so ashamed to make this useless job , who try to do it in another way , and they try , i try , to not make the object for the object but for the result , for the profit for the human being , the person who will use it .
if we take the toothbrush -- i don 't think about the toothbrush . i think , " what will be the effect of the brush in the mouth ? "
and to understand what will be the effect of the toothbrush in the mouth , i must imagine : who owns this mouth ?
what is the life of the owner of this mouth ? in what society [ does ] this guy live ?
what civilization creates this society ?
what animal species creates this civilization ?
when i arrive -- and i take one minute , i am not so intelligent -- when i arrive at the level of animal species , that becomes real interesting .
me , i have strictly no power to change anything .
but when i come back , i can understand why i shall not do it , because today to not do it , it 's more positive than do it , or how i shall do it .
but to come back , where i am at the animal species , there is things to see .
there is things to see , there is the big challenge .
the big challenge in front of us .
because there is not a human production which exists outside of what i call " the big image . " the big image is our story , our poetry , our romanticism .
our poetry is our mutation , our life .
we must remember , and we can see that in any book of my son of 10 years old , that life appears four billion years ago , around -- four billion point two ?
voice offstage : four point five .
yes , point five , ok , ok , ok ! i 'm a designer , that 's all , of christmas gifts .
and before , there was this soup , called " soupe primordiale , " this first soup -- bloop bloop bloop -- sort of dirty mud , no life , nothing .
so then -- pshoo-shoo -- lightning -- pshoo -- arrive -- pshoo-shoo -- makes life -- bloop bloop -- and that dies .
some million years after -- pshoo-shoo , bloop-bloop -- ah , wake up !
at the end , finally , that succeeds , and life appears .
we was so , so stupid . the most stupid bacteria .
even , i think , we copy our way to reproduce , you know what i mean , and something of -- oh no , forget it .
after , we become a fish ; after , we become a frog ; after , we become a monkey ; after , we become what we are today : a super-monkey , and the fun is , the super-monkey we are today , is at half of the story .
can you imagine ? from that stupid bacteria to us , with a microphone , with a computer , with an ipod : four billion years .
and we know , and especially carolyn knows , that when the sun will implode , the earth will burn , explode , i don 't know what , and this is scheduled for four , four billion years ?
yes , she said , something like that . ok , that means we are at half of the story .
fantastic ! it 's a beauty !
can you imagine ? it 's very symbolic .
because the bacteria we was had no idea of what we are today .
and today , we have no idea of what we shall be in four billion years .
and this territory is fantastic .
that is our poetry . that is our beautiful story .
it 's our romanticism . mu-ta-tion . we are mutants .
and if we don 't deeply understand , if we don 't integrate that we are mutants , we completely miss the story .
because every generation thinks we are the final one .
we have a way to look at earth like that , you know , " i am the man . the final man .
you know , we mutate during four billion years before , but now , because it 's me , we stop . fin .
for the end , for the eternity , it is one with a red jacket . "
something like that . i am not sure of that .
because that is our intelligence of mutation and things like that .
there is so many things to do ; it 's so fresh .
and here is something : nobody is obliged to be a genius , but everybody is obliged to participate .
and to participate , for a mutant , there is a minimum of exercise , a minimum of sport .
we can say that .
the first , if you want -- there is so many -- but one which is very easy to do , is the duty of vision .
i can explain you . i shall try .
if you walk like that , it 's ok , it 's ok , you can walk , but perhaps , because you walk with the eyes like that , you will not see , oh , there is a hole .
and you will fall , and you will die . dangerous .
that 's why , perhaps , you will try to have this angle of vision .
ok , i can see , if i found something , up , up , and they continue , up up up .
i raise the angle of vision , but it 's still very -- selfish , selfish , egoiste -- yes , selfish .
you , you survive . it 's ok .
if you raise the level of your eyes a little more you go , " i see you , oh my god you are here , how are you , i can help you ,
i can design for you a new toothbrush , new toilet brush , " something like that .
i live in society ; i live in community .
it 's ok . you start to be in the territory of intelligence , we can say .
from this level , the more you can raise this angle of view , the more you will be important for the society .
the more you will rise , the more you will be important for the civilization .
the more you will rise , to see far and high , like that , the more you will be important for the story of our mutation .
that means intelligent people are in this angle . that is intelligence .
from this to here , that , it 's genius .
ptolemy , eratosthenes , einstein , things like that .
nobody 's obliged to be a genius .
it 's better , but nobody .
take care , in this training , to be a good mutant . there is some danger , there is some trap . one trap : the vertical .
because at the vertical of us , if you look like that , " ah ! my god , there is god . ah ! god ! "
god is a trap . god is the answer when we don 't know the answer .
that means , when your brain is not enough big , when you don 't understand , you go , " ah , it 's god , it 's god . " that 's ridiculous .
that 's why -- jump , like that ? no , don 't jump .
come back . because , after , there is another trap .
if you look like that , you look to the past , or you look inside if you are very flexible , inside yourself .
it 's called schizophrenia , and you are dead also .
that 's why every morning , now , because you are a good mutant , you will raise your angle of view .
out , more of the horizontal . you are an intelligence .
never forget -- like that , like that .
it 's very , very , very important .
what , what else we can say about that ? why do that ?
it 's because we -- if we look from far , we see our line of evolution .
this line of evolution is clearly positive .
from far , this line looks very smooth , like that .
but if you take a lens , like that , this line is ack , ack , ack , ack , ack . like that .
it 's made of light and shadow .
we can say light is civilization , shadow is barbaria .
and it 's very important to know where we are .
because some cycle , there is a spot in the cycle , and you have not the same duty in the different parts of the cycle .
that means , we can imagine -- i don 't say it was fantastic , but in the ' 80s , there was not too much war , like that , it was -- we can imagine that the civilization can become civilized .
in this case , people like me are acceptable .
we can say , " it 's luxurious time . "
we have time to think , we have time to i don 't know what , speak about art and things like that .
it 's ok . we are in the light .
but sometimes , like today , we fall , we fall so fast , so fast to shadow , we fall so fast to barbaria .
with many , many , many , many face of barbaria .
because it 's not , the barbaria we have today , it 's perhaps not the barbaria we think .
there is different type of barbaria .
that 's why we must adapt .
that means , when barbaria is back , forget the beautiful chairs , forget the beautiful hotel , forget design , even -- i 'm sorry to say -- forget art .
forget all that . there is priority ; there is urgency .
you must go back to politics , you must go back to radicalization ,
i 'm sorry if that 's not very english .
you must go back to fight , to battle .
that 's why today i 'm so ashamed to make this job .
that 's why i am here , to try to do it the best possible .
but i know that even i do it the best possible -- that 's why i 'm the best -- it 's nothing .
because it 's not the right time .
that 's why i say that . i say that , because , i repeat , nothing exist if it 's not in the good reason , the reason of our beautiful dream , of this civilization .
and because we must all work to finish this story .
because the scenario of this civilization -- about love , progress , and things like that -- it 's ok , but there is so many different , other scenarios of other civilizations .
this scenario , of this civilization , was about becoming powerful , intelligent , like this idea we have invented , this concept of god .
we are god now . we are . it 's almost done .
we have just to finish the story .
that is very , very important .
and when you don 't understand really what 's happened , you cannot go and fight and work and build and things like that .
you go to the future back , back , back , back , like that .
and you can fall , and it 's very dangerous .
no , you must really understand that .
because we have almost finished , i 'll repeat this story .
and the beauty of this , in perhaps 50 years , 60 years , we can finish completely this civilization ,
and offer to our children the possibility to invent a new story , a new poetry , a new romanticism .
with billions of people who have been born , worked , lived and died before us , these people who have worked so much , we have now bring beautiful things , beautiful gifts , we know so many things .
we can say to our children , ok , done , that was our story . that passed . now you have a duty : invent a new story . invent a new poetry .
the only rule is , we have not to have any idea about the next story .
we give you white pages . invent .
we give you the best tools , the best tools , and now , do it .
that 's why i continue to work , even if it 's for toilet brush .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / tim _ leberecht _ 3 _ ways _ to _ usefully _ lose _ control _ of _ your _ reputation.html
the days are past when a person , company or brand could tightly control their reputation -- online chatter and spin mean that if you 're relevant , there 's a constant , free-form conversation happening about you that you have no control over . tim leberecht offers three big ideas about accepting that loss of control , even designing for it -- and using it as an impetus to recommit to your values .
business , design , social media
1591
tim leberecht : 3 ways to lose control of your brand
companies are losing control .
what happens on wall street no longer stays on wall street .
what happens in vegas ends up on youtube .
reputations are volatile . loyalties are fickle .
management teams seem increasingly disconnected from their staff .
a recent survey said that 27 percent of bosses believe their employees are inspired by their firm .
however , in the same survey , only four percent of employees agreed .
companies are losing control of their customers and their employees .
but are they really ?
i 'm a marketer , and as a marketer , i know that i 've never really been in control .
your brand is what other people say about you when you 're not in the room , the saying goes .
hyperconnectivity and transparency allow companies to be in that room now , 24 / 7 .
they can listen and join the conversation .
in fact , they have more control over the loss of control than ever before .
they can design for it . but how ?
first of all , they can give employees and customers more control .
they can collaborate with them on the creation of ideas , knowledge , content , designs and product .
they can give them more control over pricing , which is what the band radiohead did with its pay-as-you-like online release of its album " in rainbows . " buyers could determine the price , but the offer was exclusive , and only stood for a limited period of time .
the album sold more copies than previous releases of the band .
the danish chocolate company anthon berg opened a so-called " generous store " in copenhagen .
it asked customers to purchase chocolate with the promise of good deeds towards loved ones .
it turned transactions into interactions , and generosity into a currency .
companies can even give control to hackers .
when microsoft kinect came out , the motion-controlled add-on to its xbox gaming console , it immediately drew the attention of hackers .
microsoft first fought off the hacks , but then shifted course when it realized that actively supporting the community came with benefits .
the sense of co-ownership , the free publicity , the added value , all helped drive sales .
the ultimate empowerment of customers is to ask them not to buy .
outdoor clothier patagonia encouraged prospective buyers to check out ebay for its used products and to resole their shoes before purchasing new ones .
in an even more radical stance against consumerism , the company placed a " don 't buy this jacket " advertisement during the peak of shopping season .
it may have jeopardized short-term sales , but it builds lasting , long-term loyalty based on shared values .
research has shown that giving employees more control over their work makes them happier and more productive .
the brazilian company semco group famously lets employees set their own work schedules and even their salaries .
hulu and netflix , among other companies , have open vacation policies .
companies can give people more control , but they can also give them less control .
traditional business wisdom holds that trust is earned by predictable behavior , but when everything is consistent and standardized , how do you create meaningful experiences ?
giving people less control might be a wonderful way to counter the abundance of choice and make them happier .
take the travel service nextpedition .
nextpedition turns the trip into a game , with surprising twists and turns along the way .
it does not tell the traveler where she 's going until the very last minute , and information is provided just in time . similarly , dutch airline klm launched a surprise campaign , seemingly randomly handing out small gifts to travelers en route to their destination .
u.k.-based interflora monitored twitter for users who were having a bad day , and then sent them a free bouquet of flowers .
is there anything companies can do to make their employees feel less pressed for time ? yes .
force them to help others .
a recent study suggests that having employees complete occasional altruistic tasks throughout the day increases their sense of overall productivity .
at frog , the company i work for , we hold internal speed meet sessions that connect old and new employees , helping them get to know each other fast .
by applying a strict process , we give them less control , less choice , but we enable more and richer social interactions .
companies are the makers of their fortunes , and like all of us , they are utterly exposed to serendipity .
that should make them more humble , more vulnerable and more human .
at the end of the day , as hyperconnectivity and transparency expose companies ' behavior in broad daylight , staying true to their true selves is the only sustainable value proposition .
or as the ballet dancer alonzo king said , " what 's interesting about you is you . "
for the true selves of companies to come through , openness is paramount , but radical openness is not a solution , because when everything is open , nothing is open .
" a smile is a door that is half open and half closed , " the author jennifer egan wrote .
companies can give their employees and customers more control or less . they can worry about how much openness is good for them , and what needs to stay closed .
or they can simply smile , and remain open to all possibilities .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / wael _ ghonim _ inside _ the _ egyptian _ revolution.html
wael ghonim is the google executive who helped jumpstart egypt 's democratic revolution ... with a facebook page memorializing a victim of the regime 's violence . speaking at tedxcairo , he tells the inside story of the past two months , when everyday egyptians showed that " the power of the people is stronger than the people in power . "
politics , social change
1086
wael ghonim : inside the egyptian revolution
this is revolution 2.0 .
no one was a hero . no one was a hero .
because everyone was a hero .
everyone has done something .
we all use wikipedia .
if you think of the concept of wikipedia where everyone is collaborating on content ,
and at the end of the day you 've built the largest encyclopedia in the world .
from just an idea that sounded crazy , you have the largest encyclopedia in the world .
and in the egyptian revolution , the revolution 2.0 , everyone has contributed something , small or big . they contributed something -- to bring us one of the most inspiring stories in the history of mankind when it comes to revolutions .
it was actually really inspiring to see all these egyptians completely changing .
if you look at the scene , egypt , for 30 years , had been in a downhill -- going into a downhill .
everything was going bad .
everything was going wrong .
we only ranked high when it comes to poverty , corruption , lack of freedom of speech , lack of political activism .
those were the achievements of our great regime .
yet , nothing was happening .
and it 's not because people were happy or people were not frustrated .
in fact , people were extremely frustrated .
but the reason why everyone was silent is what i call the psychological barrier of fear .
everyone was scared .
not everyone . there were actually a few brave egyptians that i have to thank for being so brave -- going into protests as a couple of hundred , getting beaten up and arrested .
but in fact , the majority were scared .
everyone did not want really to get in trouble .
a dictator cannot live without the force .
they want to make people live in fear .
and that psychological barrier of fear had worked for so many years , and here comes the internet , technology , blackberry , sms .
it 's helping all of us to connect .
platforms like youtube , twitter , facebook were helping us a lot because it basically gave us the impression that , " wow , i 'm not alone .
there are a lot of people who are frustrated . " there are lots of people who are frustrated .
there are lots of people who actually share the same dream .
there are lots of people who care about their freedom .
they probably have the best life in the world .
they are living in happiness . they are living in their villas .
they are happy . they don 't have problems .
but they are still feeling the pain of the egyptian .
a lot of us , we 're not really happy when we see a video of an egyptian man who 's eating the trash while others are stealing billions of egyptian pounds from the wealth of the country .
the internet has played a great role , helping these people to speak up their minds , to collaborate together , to start thinking together .
it was an educational campaign .
khaled saeed was killed in june 2010 .
i still remember the photo .
i still remember every single detail of that photo .
the photo was horrible .
he was tortured , brutally tortured to death .
but then what was the answer of the regime ?
" he choked on a pile of hash " --
that was their answer : " he 's a criminal .
he 's someone who escaped from all these bad things . " but people did not relate to this .
people did not believe this .
because of the internet , the truth prevailed and everyone knew the truth .
and everyone started to think that " this guy could be my brother . " he was a middle-class guy .
his photo was remembered by all of us .
a page was created .
an anonymous administrator was basically inviting people to join the page , and there was no plan .
" what are we going to do ? " " i don 't know . " in a few days , tens of thousands of people there -- angry egyptians who were asking the ministry of interior affairs , " enough .
get those who killed this guy . to just bring them to justice . " but of course , they don 't listen .
it was an amazing story -- how everyone started feeling the ownership .
everyone was an owner in this page .
people started contributing ideas .
in fact , one of the most ridiculous ideas was , " hey , let 's have a silent stand .
let 's get people to go in the street , face the sea , their back to the street , dressed in black , standing up silently for one hour , doing nothing and then just leaving , going back home . "
for some people , that was like , " wow , silent stand .
and next time it 's going to be vibration . " people were making fun of the idea .
but actually when people went to the street -- the first time it was thousands of people in alexandria -- it felt like -- it was amazing . it was great
because it connected people from the virtual world , bringing them to the real world , sharing the same dream , the same frustration , the same anger , the same desire for freedom .
and they were doing this thing .
but did the regime learn anything ? not really .
they were actually attacking them .
they were actually abusing them , despite the fact of how peaceful these guys were -- they were not even protesting .
and things had developed until the tunisian revolution .
this whole page was , again , managed by the people .
in fact , the anonymous admin job was to collect ideas , help people to vote on them and actually tell them what they are doing .
people were taking shots and photos ; people were reporting violations of human rights in egypt ; people were suggesting ideas , they were actually voting on ideas , and then they were executing the ideas ; people were creating videos .
everything was done by the people to the people , and that 's the power of the internet .
there was no leader .
the leader was everyone on that page .
the tunisian experiment , as amir was saying , inspired all of us , showed us that there is a way .
yes we can . we can do it .
we have the same problems ; we can just go in the streets .
and when i saw the street on the 25th , i went back and said , " egypt before the 25th is never going to be egypt after the 25th .
the revolution is happening .
this is not the end , this is the beginning of the end . " i was detained on the 27th night .
thank god i announced the locations and everything .
but they detained me .
and i 'm not going to talk about my experience , because this is not about me .
i was detained for 12 days , blindfolded , handcuffed .
and i did not really hear anything . i did not know anything .
i was not allowed to speak with anyone .
and i went out .
the next day i was in tahrir .
seriously , with the amount of change i had noticed in this square , i thought it was 12 years .
i never had in my mind to see this egyptian , the amazing egyptian .
the fear is no longer fear .
it 's actually strength -- it 's power .
people were so empowered .
it was amazing how everyone was so empowered and now asking for their rights .
completely opposite .
extremism became tolerance .
who would [ have ] imagined before the 25th , if i tell you that hundreds of thousands of christians are going to pray and tens of thousands of muslims are going to protect them , and then hundreds of thousands of muslims are going to pray and tens of thousands of christians are going to protect them -- this is amazing .
all the stereotypes that the regime was trying to put on us through their so-called propaganda , or mainstream media , are proven wrong .
this whole revolution showed us how ugly such a regime was and how great and amazing the egyptian man , the egyptian woman , how simple and amazing these people are whenever they have a dream .
when i saw that , i went back and i wrote on facebook .
and that was a personal belief , regardless of what 's going on , regardless of the details .
i said that , " we are going to win .
we are going to win because we don 't understand politics .
we 're going to win because we don 't play their dirty games .
we 're going to win because we don 't have an agenda .
we 're going to win because the tears that come from our eyes actually come from our hearts .
we 're going to win because we have dreams .
we 're going to win because we are willing to stand up for our dreams . " and that 's actually what happened . we won .
and that 's not because of anything , but because we believed in our dream .
the winning here is not the whole details of what 's going to happen in the political scene .
the winning is the winning of the dignity of every single egyptian .
actually , i had this taxi driver telling me , " listen , i am breathing freedom .
i feel that i have dignity that i have lost for so many years . " for me that 's winning , regardless of all the details .
my last word to you is a statement i believe in , which egyptians have proven to be true ,
that the power of the people is much stronger than the people in power .
thanks a lot .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / patricia _ kuhl _ the _ linguistic _ genius _ of _ babies.html
at tedxrainier , patricia kuhl shares astonishing findings about how babies learn one language over another -- by listening to the humans around them and " taking statistics " on the sounds they need to know . clever lab experiments show how 6-month-old babies use sophisticated reasoning to understand their world .
brain , children , language , science , technology
1075
patricia kuhl : the linguistic genius of babies
i want you to take a look at this baby .
what you 're drawn to are her eyes and the skin you love to touch .
but today i 'm going to talk to you about something you can 't see -- what 's going on up in that little brain of hers .
the modern tools of neuroscience are demonstrating to us that what 's going on up there is nothing short of rocket science .
and what we 're learning is going to shed some light on what the romantic writers and poets described as the " celestial openness " of the child 's mind .
what we see here is a mother in india ,
and she 's speaking koro , which is a newly discovered language .
and she 's talking to her baby .
what this mother -- and the 800 people who speak koro in the world -- understands [ is ] that , to preserve this language , they need to speak it to the babies .
and therein lies a critical puzzle .
why is it that you can 't preserve a language by speaking to you and i , to the adults ?
well , it 's got to do with your brain .
what we see here is that language has a critical period for learning .
the way to read this slide is to look at your age on the horizontal axis .
and you 'll see on the vertical your skill at acquiring a second language .
babies and children are geniuses until they turn seven , and then there 's a systematic decline .
after puberty , we fall off the map .
no scientists dispute this curve , but laboratories all over the world are trying to figure out why it works this way .
work in my lab is focused on the first critical period in development -- and that is the period in which babies try to master which sounds are used in their language .
we think , by studying how the sounds are learned , we 'll have a model for the rest of language , and perhaps for critical periods that may exist in childhood for social , emotional and cognitive development .
so we 've been studying the babies using a technique that we 're using all over the world and the sounds of all languages .
the baby sits on a parent 's lap , and we train them to turn their heads when a sound changes -- like from " ah " to " ee . " if they do so at the appropriate time , the black box lights up and a panda bear pounds a drum .
a six-monther adores the task .
what have we learned ?
well , babies all over the world are what i like to describe as " citizens of the world . " they can discriminate all the sounds of all languages , no matter what country we 're testing and what language we 're using ,
and that 's remarkable because you and i can 't do that .
we 're culture-bound listeners .
we can discriminate the sounds of our own language , but not those of foreign languages .
so the question arises : when do those citizens of the world turn into the language-bound listeners that we are ?
and the answer : before their first birthdays .
what you see here is performance on that head-turn task for babies tested in tokyo and the united states , here in seattle , as they listened to " ra " and " la " -- sounds important to english , but not to japanese .
so at six to eight months the babies are totally equivalent .
two months later something incredible occurs .
the babies in the united states are getting a lot better , babies in japan are getting a lot worse , but both of those groups of babies are preparing for exactly the language that they are going to learn .
so the question is : what 's happening during this critical two-month period ?
this is the critical period for sound development , but what 's going on up there ?
so there are two things going on .
the first is that the babies are listening intently to us , and they 're taking statistics as they listen to us talk -- they 're taking statistics .
so listen to two mothers speaking motherese -- the universal language we use when we talk to kids -- first in english and then in japanese . english mother : ah , i love your big blue eyes -- so pretty and nice .
japanese mother : [ japanese ] patricia kuhl : during the production of speech , when babies listen , what they 're doing is taking statistics on the language that they hear .
and those distributions grow .
and what we 've learned is that babies are sensitive to the statistics , and the statistics of japanese and english are very , very different . english has a lot of rs and ls . the distribution shows .
and the distribution of japanese is totally different , where we see a group of intermediate sounds , which is known as the japanese " r. "
so babies absorb the statistics of the language and it changes their brains ; it changes them from the citizens of the world to the culture-bound listeners that we are .
but we as adults are no longer absorbing those statistics .
we 're governed by the representations in memory that were formed early in development .
so what we 're seeing here is changing our models of what the critical period is about .
we 're arguing from a mathematical standpoint that the learning of language material may slow down when our distributions stabilize .
it 's raising lots of questions about bilingual people .
bilinguals must keep two sets of statistics in mind at once and flip between them , one after the other , depending on who they 're speaking to .
so we asked ourselves , can the babies take statistics on a brand new language ?
and we tested this by exposing american babies who 'd never heard a second language to mandarin for the first time during the critical period .
we knew that , when monolinguals were tested in taipei and seattle on the mandarin sounds , they showed the same pattern .
six to eight months , they 're totally equivalent .
two months later , something incredible happens .
but the taiwanese babies are getting better , not the american babies .
what we did was expose american babies during this period to mandarin .
it was like having mandarin relatives come and visit for a month and move into your house and talk to the babies for 12 sessions .
here 's what it looked like in the laboratory .
mandarin speaker : [ mandarin ] pk : so what have we done to their little brains ?
we had to run a control group to make sure that just coming into the laboratory didn 't improve your mandarin skills .
so a group of babies came in and listened to english .
and we can see from the graph that exposure to english didn 't improve their mandarin .
but look at what happened to the babies exposed to mandarin for 12 sessions .
they were as good as the babies in taiwan who 'd been listening for 10-and-a-half months .
what it demonstrated is that babies take statistics on a new language .
whatever you put in front of them , they 'll take statistics on .
but we wondered what role the human being played in this learning exercise .
so we ran another group of babies in which the kids got the same dosage , the same 12 sessions , but over a television set and another group of babies who had just audio exposure and looked at a teddy bear on the screen . what did we do to their brains ?
what you see here is the audio result -- no learning whatsoever -- and the video result -- no learning whatsoever .
it takes a human being for babies to take their statistics .
the social brain is controlling when the babies are taking their statistics .
we want to get inside the brain and see this thing happening as babies are in front of televisions , as opposed to in front of human beings .
thankfully , we have a new machine , magnetoencephalography , that allows us to do this .
it looks like a hair dryer from mars . but it 's completely safe , completely non-invasive and silent .
we 're looking at millimeter accuracy with regard to spatial and millisecond accuracy using 306 squids -- these are superconducting quantum interference devices -- to pick up the magnetic fields that change as we do our thinking .
we 're the first in the world to record babies in an meg machine while they are learning .
so this is little emma .
she 's a six-monther .
and she 's listening to various languages in the earphones that are in her ears .
you can see , she can move around .
we 're tracking her head with little pellets in a cap ,
so she 's free to move completely unconstrained .
it 's a technical tour de force .
what are we seeing ?
we 're seeing the baby brain .
as the baby hears a word in her language
the auditory areas light up , and then subsequently areas surrounding it that we think are related to coherence , getting the brain coordinated with its different areas , and causality , one brain area causing another to activate .
we are embarking on a grand and golden age of knowledge about child 's brain development .
we 're going to be able to see a child 's brain as they experience an emotion , as they learn to speak and read , as they solve a math problem , as they have an idea .
and we 're going to be able to invent brain-based interventions for children who have difficulty learning .
just as the poets and writers described , we 're going to be able to see , i think , that wondrous openness , utter and complete openness , of the mind of a child .
in investigating the child 's brain , we 're going to uncover deep truths about what it means to be human , and in the process , we may be able to help keep our own minds open to learning for our entire lives .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / joan _ halifax.html
buddhist roshi joan halifax works with people at the last stage of life . she shares what she 's learned about compassion in the face of death and dying , and a deep insight into the nature of empathy .
buddhism , compassion , culture , death , global issues
1216
joan halifax : compassion and the true meaning of empathy
i want to address the issue of compassion .
compassion has many faces .
some of them are fierce ; some of them are wrathful ; some of them are tender ; some of them are wise .
a line that the dalai lama once said , he said , " love and compassion are necessities .
they are not luxuries .
without them , humanity cannot survive . " and i would suggest , it is not only humanity that won 't survive , but it is all species on the planet , as we 've heard today .
it is the big cats , and it 's the plankton .
two weeks ago , i was in bangalore in india .
i was so privileged to be able to teach in a hospice on the outskirts of bangalore .
and early in the morning , i went into the ward .
in that hospice , there were 31 men and women who were actively dying .
and i walked up to the bedside of an old woman who was breathing very rapidly , fragile , obviously in the latter phase of active dying .
i looked into her face .
i looked into the face of her son sitting next to her , and his face was just riven with grief and confusion .
and i remembered a line from the mahabharata , the great indian epic : " what is the most wondrous thing in the world , yudhisthira ? " and yudhisthira replied , " the most wondrous thing in the world is that all around us people can be dying and we don 't realize it can happen to us . " i looked up .
tending those 31 dying people were young women from villages around bangalore .
i looked into the face of one of these women , and i saw in her face the strength that arises when natural compassion is really present .
i watched her hands as she bathed an old man .
my gaze went to another young woman as she wiped the face of another dying person .
and it reminded me of something that i had just been present for .
every year or so , i have the privilege of taking clinicians into the himalayas and the tibetan plateau .
and we run clinics in these very remote regions where there 's no medical care whatsoever .
and on the first day at simikot in humla , far west of nepal , the most impoverished region of nepal , an old man came in clutching a bundle of rags .
and he walked in , and somebody said something to him , we realized he was deaf , and we looked into the rags , and there was this pair of eyes .
the rags were unwrapped from a little girl whose body was massively burned .
again , the eyes and hands of avalokiteshvara .
it was the young women , the health aids , who cleaned the wounds of this baby and dressed the wounds . i know those hands and eyes ; they touched me as well .
they touched me at that time .
they have touched me throughout my 68 years .
they touched me when i was four and i lost my eyesight and was partially paralyzed .
and my family brought in a woman whose mother had been a slave to take care of me .
and that woman did not have sentimental compassion .
she had phenomenal strength .
and it was really her strength , i believe , that became the kind of mudra and imprimatur that has been a guiding light in my life .
so we can ask : what is compassion comprised of ?
and there are various facets .
and there 's referential and non-referential compassion .
but first , compassion is comprised of that capacity to see clearly into the nature of suffering .
it is that ability to really stand strong and to recognize also that i 'm not separate from this suffering .
but that is not enough , because compassion , which activates the motor cortex , means that we aspire , we actually aspire to transform suffering .
and if we 're so blessed , we engage in activities that transform suffering .
but compassion has another component , and that component is really essential .
that component is that we cannot be attached to outcome .
now i worked with dying people for over 40 years .
i had the privilege of working on death row in a maximum security [ prison ] for six years .
and i realized so clearly in bringing my own life experience , from working with dying people and training caregivers , that any attachment to outcome would distort deeply my own capacity to be fully present to the whole catastrophe .
and when i worked in the prison system , it was so clear to me , this : that many of us in this room , and almost all of the men that i worked with on death row , the seeds of their own compassion had never been watered .
that compassion is actually an inherent human quality .
it is there within every human being .
but the conditions for compassion to be activated , to be aroused , are particular conditions .
i had that condition , to a certain extent , from my own childhood illness .
eve ensler , whom you 'll hear later , has had that condition activated amazingly in her through the various waters of suffering that she has been through .
and what is fascinating is that compassion has enemies , and those enemies are things like pity , moral outrage , fear .
and you know , we have a society , a world , that is paralyzed by fear .
and in that paralysis , of course , our capacity for compassion is also paralyzed .
the very word terror is global .
the very feeling of terror is global .
so our work , in a certain way , is to address this imago , this kind of archetype that has pervaded the psyche of our entire globe .
now we know from neuroscience that compassion has some very extraordinary qualities .
for example : a person who is cultivating compassion , when they are in the presence of suffering , they feel that suffering a lot more than many other people do .
however , they return to baseline a lot sooner .
this is called resilience .
many of us think that compassion drains us , but i promise you it is something that truly enlivens us .
another thing about compassion is that it really enhances what 's called neural integration .
it hooks up all parts of the brain .
another , which has been discovered by various researchers at emory and at davis and so on , is that compassion enhances our immune system .
hey , we live in a very noxious world .
most of us are shrinking in the face of psycho-social and physical poisons , of the toxins of our world .
but compassion , the generation of compassion , actually mobilizes our immunity .
you know , if compassion is so good for us , i have a question .
why don 't we train our children in compassion ?
if compassion is so good for us , why don 't we train our health care providers in compassion so that they can do what they 're supposed to do , which is to really transform suffering ?
and if compassion is so good for us , why don 't we vote on compassion ?
why don 't we vote for people in our government based on compassion ,
so that we can have a more caring world ?
in buddhism , we say , " it takes a strong back and a soft front . " it takes tremendous strength of the back to uphold yourself in the midst of conditions .
and that is the mental quality of equanimity .
but it also takes a soft front -- the capacity to really be open to the world as it is , to have an undefended heart .
and the archetype of this in buddhism is avalokiteshvara , kuan-yin . it 's a female archetype : she who perceives the cries of suffering in the world .
she stands with 10,000 arms , and in every hand , there is an instrument of liberation , and in the palm of every hand , there are eyes , and these are the eyes of wisdom .
i say that , for thousands of years , women have lived , exemplified , met in intimacy , the archetype of avalokitesvara , of kuan-yin , she who perceives the cries of suffering in the world .
women have manifested for thousands of years the strength arising from compassion in an unfiltered , unmediated way in perceiving suffering as it is .
they have infused societies with kindness , and we have really felt that as woman after woman has stood on this stage in the past day and a half . and they have actualized compassion through direct action .
jody williams called it : it 's good to meditate .
i 'm sorry , you 've got to do a little bit of that , jody .
step back , give your mother a break , okay .
but the other side of the equation is you 've got to come out of your cave .
you have to come into the world like asanga did , who was looking to realize maitreya buddha after 12 years sitting in the cave .
he said , " i 'm out of here . " he 's going down the path .
he sees something in the path .
he looks , it 's a dog , he drops to his knees .
he sees that the dog has this big wound on its leg .
the wound is just filled with maggots .
he puts out his tongue in order to remove the maggots , so as not to harm them .
and at that moment , the dog transformed into the buddha of love and kindness .
i believe that women and girls today have to partner in a powerful way with men -- with their fathers , with their sons , with their brothers , with the plumbers , the road builders , the caregivers , the doctors , the lawyers , with our president , and with all beings .
the women in this room are lotuses in a sea of fire .
may we actualize that capacity for women everywhere .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / maz _ jobrani _ make _ jokes _ not _ bombs.html
a founding member of the axis of evil comedy tour , standup comic maz jobrani riffs on the challenges and conflicts of being iranian-american -- " like , part of me thinks i should have a nuclear program ; the other part thinks i can 't be trusted ... "
comedy , entertainment , politics
935
maz jobrani : did you hear the one about the iranian-american ?
i was one of the founding members of the axis of evil comedy tour .
the other founding members included ahmed ahmed , who is an egyptian-american , who actually had the idea to go to the middle east and try it out .
before we went out as a tour , he went out solo and did it first .
then there was aron kader , who was the palestinian-american .
and then there was me , the iranian-american of the group .
now , being iranian-american presents its own set of problems , as you know .
those two countries aren 't getting along these days .
so it causes a lot of inner conflict , you know , like part of me likes me , part of me hates me .
part of me thinks i should have a nuclear program , the other part thinks i can 't be trusted with one .
these are dilemmas i have every day .
but i was born in iran ; i 'm now an american citizen , which means i have the american passport , which means i can travel .
because if you only have the iranian passport , you 're kind of limited to the countries you can go to with open arms , you know -- syria , venezuela , north korea .
so anyone who 's gotten their passport in america will tell you , when you get your passport , it still says what country you were born in .
so i remember getting my american passport .
i was like , " woohoo ! i 'm going to travel . "
and i opened it up , it said , " born in iran . " i 'm like , " oh , come on , man . "
" i 'm trying to go places . "
but what 's interesting is , i 've never had trouble traveling in any other western countries with my american passport , even though it says , " born in iran . " no problems .
where i 've had some problems is some of the arab countries , because i guess some of the arab countries aren 't getting along with iran either .
and so i was in kuwait recently , doing a comedy show with some other american comedians .
they all went through , and then the border patrol saw my american passport .
" ah ha ! american , great . "
then he opened it up . " born in iran ? wait . "
and he started asking me questions .
he said , " what is your father 's name ? "
i said , " well , he 's passed away , but his name was khosro . "
he goes , " what is your grandfather 's name ? "
i said , " he passed away a long time ago .
his name was jabbar . "
he says , " you wait . i 'll be back , " and he walked away .
and i started freaking out , because i don 't know what kind of crap my grandfather was into .
thought the guy was going to come back and be like , " we 've been looking for you for 200 years . "
" your grandfather has a parking violation . it 's way overdue .
you owe us two billion dollars . "
but as you can see , when i talk , i speak with an american accent , which you would think as an iranian-american actor , i should be able to play any part , good , bad , what have you .
but a lot of times in hollywood , when casting directors find out you 're of middle eastern descent , they go , " oh , you 're iranian . great .
can you say ' i will kill you in the name of allah ? ' " " i could say that , but what if i were to say , ' hello . i 'm your doctor ? ' "
they go , " great . and then you hijack the hospital . "
like i think you 're missing the point here .
don 't get me wrong , i don 't mind playing bad guys .
i want to play a bad guy . i want to rob a bank .
i want to rob a bank in a film . i want to rob a bank in a film , but do it with a gun , with a gun , not with a bomb strapped around me , right .
because i imagine the director : " maz , i think your character would rob the bank with a bomb around him . "
" why would i do that ?
if i want the money , why would i kill myself ? "
right .
" gimme all your money , or i 'll blow myself up . "
" well , then blow yourself up .
just do it outside , please . "
but the fact is , there 's good people everywhere .
that 's what i try and show in my stand-up . there 's good people everywhere .
all it takes in one person to mess it up . like a couple months ago in times square in new york , there was this pakistani muslim guy who tried to blow up a car bomb .
now , i happened to be in times square that night doing a comedy show .
and a few months before that , there was a white american guy in austin , texas who flew his airplane into the irs building , and i happened to be in austin that day doing a stand-up comedy show .
now i 'll tell you , as a middle eastern male , when you show up around a lot of these activities , you start feeling guilty at one point .
i was watching the news . i 'm like , " am i involved in this crap ? "
" i didn 't get the memo . what 's going on ? "
but what was interesting was , the pakistani muslim guy -- see he gives a bad name to muslims and middle easterners and pakistanis from all over the world .
and one thing that happened there was also the pakistani taliban took credit for that failed car bombing .
my question is : why would you take credit for a failed car bombing ?
" we just wanted to say we tried . "
" and furthermore , it is the thought that counts . "
" and in conclusion , win some , lose some . "
but what happened was , when the white guy flew his plane into the building , i know all my middle eastern and muslim friends in the states were watching tv , going , " please , don 't be middle eastern .
don 't be hassan . don 't be hussein . "
and the name came out jack . i 'm like , " woooo !
that 's not one of us . "
but i kept watching the news in case they came back , they were like , " before he did it , he converted to islam . "
" damn it ! why jack ? why ? "
but the fact is , i 've been lucky to get a chance to perform all over the world , and i did a lot of shows in the middle east .
i just did a seven-country solo tour .
i was in oman , and i was in saudi arabia .
i was in dubai .
and it 's great , there 's good people everywhere .
and you learn great things about these places .
i encourage people always to go visit these places .
for example , dubai -- cool place .
they 're obsessed with having the biggest , tallest , longest , as we all know .
they have a mall there , the dubai mall .
it is so big , they have taxis in the mall .
i was walking . i heard " beep , beep . "
i 'm like , " what are you doing here ? "
he goes , " i 'm going to the zara store . it 's three miles away .
and what 's crazy -- there 's a recession going on , even in dubai , but you wouldn 't know by the prices .
like in the dubai mall , they sell frozen yogurt by the gram .
it 's like a drug deal .
i was walking by . the guy goes , " psst . habibi , my friend . "
" you want some frozen yogurt ?
come here . come here . come here .
i have one gram , five gram , 10 gram . how many gram do you want ? "
i bought five grams . 10 dollars . 10 dollars ! i said , " what 's in this ? "
he 's like , " good stuff , man . columbian . top of the line . top of the line . " the other thing you learn sometimes when you travel to these countries in the middle east , sometimes in latin american countries , south american countries -- a lot of times when they build stuff , there 's no rules and regulations .
for example , i took my two year-old son to the playground at the dubai mall .
and i 've taken my two year-old son to playgrounds all over the united states .
and when you put your two year-old on a slide in the united states , they put something on the slide to slow the kid down as he comes down the slide .
not in the middle east .
i put my two year-old on the slide ; he went frrmrmm ! he took off . i went down . i go , " where 's my son ? "
" on the third floor , sir . on the third floor . "
" you take a taxi . you go to zara . make a left . "
" try the yogurt . it 's very good . little expensive . "
but one of the things i try to do with my stand-up is to break stereotypes .
and i 've been guilty of stereotyping as well .
i was in dubai . and there 's a lot of indians who work in dubai .
and they don 't get paid that well .
and i got it in my head that all the indians there must be workers .
and i forgot there 's obviously successful indians in dubai as well .
i was doing a show , and they said , " we 're going to send a driver to pick you up . "
so i went down to the lobby , and i saw this indian guy .
i go , " he 's got to be my driver . "
because he was standing there in like a cheap suit , thin mustache , staring at me .
so i went over , " excuse me , sir , are you my driver ? "
he goes , " no , sir . i own the hotel . "
i go , " i 'm sorry . then why were you staring at me ? "
he goes , " i thought you were my driver . "
i 'll leave you guys with this : i try , with my stand-up , to break stereotypes , present middle easterners in a positive light -- muslims in a positive light -- and i hope that in the coming years , more film and television programs come out of hollywood presenting us in a positive light .
who knows , maybe one day we 'll even have our own james bond , right .
" my name is bond , jamal bond . "
til then , i 'll keep telling jokes . i hope you keep laughing .
have a good day . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / marco _ tempest _ the _ magic _ of _ truth _ and _ lies _ on _ ipods.html
using three ipods like magical props , marco tempest spins a clever , surprisingly heartfelt meditation on truth and lies , art and emotion .
art , arts , design , entertainment , illusion , magic , music , technology
1211
marco tempest : the magic of truth and lies
so the type of magic i like , and i 'm a magician , is a magic that uses technology to create illusions .
so i would like to show you something i 've been working on .
it 's an application that i think will be useful for artists -- multimedia artists in particular .
it synchronizes videos across multiple screens of mobile devices .
and i borrowed these three ipods from people here in the audience to show you what i mean .
and i 'm going to use them to tell you a little bit about my favorite subject : deception .
one of my favorite magicians is karl germain .
he had this wonderful trick where a rosebush would bloom right in front of your eyes .
but it was his production of a butterfly that was the most beautiful .
announcer : ladies and gentlemen , the creation of life .
marco tempest : when asked about deception , he said this : announcer : magic is the only honest profession .
a magician promises to deceive you -- and he does .
mt : i like to think of myself as an honest magician .
i use a lot of tricks , which means that sometimes i have to lie to you .
now i feel bad about that .
but people lie every day .
hold on .
girl in phone : hey , where are you ?
mt : stuck in traffic . i 'll be there soon .
you 've all done it .
lady : i 'll be ready in just a minute , darling .
man : it 's just what i 've always wanted .
woman : you were great .
mt : deception , it 's a fundamental part of life .
now polls show that men tell twice as many lies as women -- assuming the women they ask told the truth .
we deceive to gain advantage and to hide our weaknesses .
the chinese general sun tzu said that all war was based on deception .
oscar wilde said the same thing of romance .
some people deceive for money .
let 's play a game .
three cards , three chances .
announcer : one five will get you 10 , 10 will get you 20 .
now where 's the lady ?
where is the queen ?
mt : this one ?
sorry . you lose .
well , i didn 't deceive you .
you deceived yourself .
self-deception .
that 's when we convince ourselves that a lie is the truth .
sometimes it 's hard to tell the two apart .
compulsive gamblers are experts at self-deception .
they believe they can win .
they forget the times they lose .
the brain is very good at forgetting .
bad experiences are quickly forgotten .
bad experiences quickly disappear .
which is why in this vast and lonely cosmos , we are so wonderfully optimistic .
our self-deception becomes a positive illusion -- why movies are able to take us onto extraordinary adventures ;
why we believe romeo when he says he loves juliet ;
and why single notes of music , when played together , become a sonata and conjure up meaning .
that 's " clair de lune . "
its composer called debussy said that art was the greatest deception of all .
art is a deception that creates real emotions -- a lie that creates a truth .
and when you give yourself over to that deception , it becomes magic .
thank you . thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / loretta _ napoleoni _ the _ intricate _ economics _ of _ terrorism.html
loretta napoleoni details her rare opportunity to talk to the secretive italian red brigades -- an experience that sparked a lifelong interest in terrorism . she gives a behind-the-scenes look at its complex economics , revealing a surprising connection between money laundering and the us patriot act .
corruption , economics , global issues , money
712
loretta napoleoni : the intricate economics of terrorism
i 'm going to show you how terrorism actually interacts with our daily life .
15 years ago i received a phone call from a friend .
at the time he was looking after the rights of political prisoners in italian jails .
he asked me if i wanted to interview the red brigades .
now , as many of you may remember , the red brigades was a terrorist , marxist organization which was very active in italy from the 1960s until the mid-1980s .
as part of their strategy the red brigades never spoke with anybody , not even with their lawyers .
they sat in silence through their trails , waving occasionally at family and friends .
in 1993 they declared the end of the armed struggle .
and they drew a list of people with whom they would talk , and tell their story .
and i was one of those people .
when i asked my friend why the red brigades want to talk to me , he said that the female members of the organization had actually supported my name .
in particular , one person had put it forward .
she was my childhood friend .
she had joined the red brigades and became a leader of the organization .
naturally , i didn 't know that until the day she was arrested .
in fact , i read it in the newspaper .
at the time of the phone call i just had a baby ,
i successfully completed a management buyout to the company i was working with , and the last thing i wanted to do was to go back home and touring the high-security prisons .
but this is exactly what i did because i wanted to know what had turned my best friend into a terrorist , and why she 'd never tried to recruit me .
so , this is exactly what i did .
now , i found the answer very quickly . i actually had failed the psychological profiling of a terrorist .
the center committee of the red brigades had judged me too single-minded and too opinionated to become a good terrorist .
my friend , on the other hand , she was a good terrorist because she was very good at following orders .
she also embraced violence . because she believed that the only way to unblock what , at the time , was known as a blocked democracy , italy , a country run by the same party for 35 years was the arms struggle .
at the same time , while i was interviewing the red brigades , i also discovered that their life was not ruled by politics or ideology , but actually was ruled by economics .
they were constantly short of cash .
they were constantly searching for cash .
now , contrary to what many people believe , terrorism is actually a very expensive business .
i 'll give you an idea .
in the 1970s , the turnover of the red brigades on a yearly basis was seven million dollars .
this is roughly between 100 and 150 million , today .
now , you know , if you live underground it 's really hard to produce this amount of money .
but this also explains why , when i was interviewing the red brigades , and then , later on , other arms organizations , including members of al-zarqawi group in the middle east , everybody was extremely reluctant to talk about ideology , or politics .
because they had no idea .
the political vision of a terrorist organization is decided by the leadership , which , generally , is never more than five to seven people .
all the others do , day in and day out , is search for money .
once , for example , i was interviewing this part-timer from the red brigades .
it was a psychiatrist . he loved sailing .
he was a really keen sailor . and he had this beautiful boat .
and he told me that the best time of his life was when he was a member of the red brigades
and he went sailing , every summer , back and forth from lebanon , where he would pick up soviet weapons from the plo , and then carry them all the way to sardinia where the other arms organization from europe would go and take their share of the arms .
for that service the red brigades were actually paid a fee , which went to fund their organization .
so , because i am a trained economist and i think in economic terms , all of the sudden i thought , maybe there is something here .
maybe there is a link , a commercial link , between one organization and another one .
but it was only when i interviewed mario moretti , the head of the red brigades , the man who kidnapped and killed aldo moro , italian former prime minister , that i finally realized that terrorism is actually business .
i was having lunch with him in a high-security prison in italy . and as we were eating , i had the distinct feeling that i was back in the city of london , having lunch with a fellow banker or an economist .
this guy thought in the same way i did .
so , i decided that i wanted to investigate the economics of terrorism .
naturally , nobody wanted to fund my research .
in fact , i think many people thought that i was a bit crazy .
you know , that woman that goes around to foundations asking for money , thinking about the economics of terrorism .
so , in the end , i took a decision that , in retrospect , did change my life .
i sold my company , and funded the research myself .
and what i discovered is this parallel reality , another international economic system , which runs parallel to our own , which has been created by arms organizations since the end of world war ii .
and what is even more shocking is that this system has followed , step by step , the evolution of our own system , of our western capitalism .
and there are three main stages .
the first one is the state sponsor of terrorism .
the second one is the privatization of terrorism .
and the third , of course , is the globalization of terrorism .
so , state sponsor of terrorism , feature of the cold war . this is when the two superpowers were fighting a war by proxy , along the periphery of the sphere of influence , fully funding arms organizations .
a mix of legal and illegal activities is used .
so , the link between crime and terror is established very early on .
and here is the best example , the contras in nicaragua , created by the cia , legally funded by the u.s. congress , illegally funded by the reagan administration via covert operation , for example , the iran-contra affair .
then comes the late 1970s , early ' 80s , and some groups successfully carry out the privatization of terrorism .
so , they gain independence from the sponsor , and start funding themselves .
now , again we see a mix of legal and illegal activities .
so , arafat used to get a percentage of the smuggling of hashish from bekaa valley , which is the valley between lebanon and syria .
and the ira , which control the private transportation system in northern ireland , did exactly the same thing .
so , every single time that somebody got into a taxi in belfast without knowing , actually , was funding the ira .
but the great change came , of course , with globalization and deregulation .
this is when arms organization were able to link up , also financially , with each other .
but above all , they started to do serious business with the world of crime .
and together they money-laundered their dirty business through the same channel .
this is when we see the birth of the transnational arms organization al qaeda .
this is an organization that can raise money across border .
but also that is able to carry out attacks in more than one country .
now , deregulation also brought back rogue economics .
so what is rogue economics ?
rogue economics is a force which is constantly lurking in the background of history .
it comes back at times of great transformation , globalization being one of those transformations .
it is at this times in which politics actually loses control of the economy , and the economy becomes a rogue force working against us .
it has happened before in history .
it has happened with the fall of the roman empire .
it has happened with industrial revolution .
and it actually happened again , with the fall of the berlin wall .
now , i calculated how big was this international economic system composed by crime , terror , and illegal economy , before 9-11 .
and it is a staggering 1.5 trillion dollars .
it is trillions , it 's not billions .
this is about twice the gdp of the united kingdom , soon will be more , considering where this country is going .
now , until 9-11 , the bulk of all this money flew into the u.s. economy because the bulk of the money was denominated in u.s. dollars
and the money laundering was taking place inside the united states .
the entry point , of course , of most of this money were the off-shore facilities .
so , this was a vital injection of cash into the u.s. economy .
now , when i went to look at the figures of the u.s. money supply ,
the u.s. money supply is the amount of dollars that the federal reserve prints every year in order to satisfy the increase in the demand for dollars , which , of course , reflects the growth of the economy .
so , when i went to look at those figures , i noted that since the late 1960s a growing number of these dollars was actually leaving the united states , never to come back .
these were money taken out in suitcases or in containers , in cash of course .
these were money taken out by criminals and money launderers .
these were money taken out to fund the growth of the terror , illegal and criminal economy .
so , you see , what is the relationship ?
the united states actually is a country that is the reserve currency of the world .
what does it mean ? that means that it has a privilege that other countries do not have .
it can borrow against the total amount of dollars in circulation in the world .
this privilege is called seigniorage .
no other country can do that .
all the other countries , for example the united kingdom , can borrow only against the amount of money in circulation inside its own borders .
so , here is the implication of the relationship between the worlds of crime , terror , and illegal economy , and our economy .
the u.s. in the 1990s was borrowing against the growth of the terror , illegal and criminal economy .
this is how close we are with this world .
now , this situation changed , of course , after 9-11 , because george bush launched the war on terror .
part of the war on terror was the introduction of the patriot act .
now , many of you know that the patriot act is a legislation that greatly reduces the liberties of americans in order to protect them against terrorism .
but there is a section of the patriot act which refers specifically to finance .
and it is , in fact , an anti-money-laundering legislation .
what the patriot act did was to prohibit u.s. bank , and u.s.-registered foreign banks from doing any businesses with off-shore facilities .
it closed that door between the money laundering in dollars , and the u.s. economy .
it also gave the u.s. monetary authorities the right to monitor any dollar transaction taking place anywhere in the world .
now , you can imagine what was the reaction of the international finance and banking .
all the bankers said to their clients , " get out of the dollars and go and invest somewhere else . "
now , the euro was a newly born currency of great opportunity for business , and , of course , for investment .
and this is what people did .
nobody wants the u.s. monetary authority to check their relationship , to monitor their relationship with their clientele .
the same thing happened , of course , in the world of crime and terror .
people simply moved their money-laundering activities away from the united states into europe .
why did this happen ? this happened because the patriot act was a unilateral legislation .
it was introduced only in the united states .
and it was introduced only for the u.s. dollars .
in europe , a similar legislation was not introduced .
so , within six months europe became the epicenter of the money-laundering activities of the world .
so , this is how incredible are the relationship between the world of crime and the world of terror , and our own life .
so , why did i tell you this story ?
i told you this story because you must understand that there is a world that goes well beyond the headlines of the newspapers , including the personal relationship that you have with friends and family .
you got to question everything that is told to you , including what i just told you today .
this is the only way for you to step into the dark side , and have a look at it .
and believe me , it 's going to be scary .
it 's going to be frightful , but it 's going to enlighten you .
and , above all , it 's not going to be boring .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / roz _ savage _ why _ i _ m _ rowing _ across _ the _ pacific.html
five years ago , roz savage quit her high-powered london job to become an ocean rower . she 's crossed the atlantic solo , and just started the third leg of a pacific solo row , the first for a woman . why does she do it ? hear her reasons , both deeply personal and urgently activist .
adventure , entertainment , global issues , oceans
844
roz savage : why i 'm rowing across the pacific
hi , my name is roz savage and i row across oceans .
four years ago , i rowed solo across the atlantic , and since then , i 've done two out of three stages across the pacific , from san francisco to hawaii and from hawaii to kiribati .
and tomorrow , i 'll be leaving this boat to fly back to kiribati to continue with the third and final stage of my row across the pacific .
cumulatively , i will have rowed over 8,000 miles , taken over three million oar strokes and spent more than 312 days alone on the ocean on a 23 foot rowboat .
this has given me a very special relationship with the ocean .
we have a bit of a love / hate thing going on .
i feel a bit about it like i did about a very strict math teacher that i once had at school .
i didn 't always like her , but i did respect her ,
and she taught me a heck of a lot .
so today i 'd like to share with you some of my ocean adventures and tell you a little bit about what they 've taught me , and how i think we can maybe take some of those lessons and apply them to this environmental challenge that we face right now .
now , some of you might be thinking , " hold on a minute . she doesn 't look very much like an ocean rower .
isn 't she meant to be about this tall and about this wide and maybe look a bit more like these guys ? "
you 'll notice , they 've all got something that i don 't .
well , i don 't know what you 're thinking , but i 'm talking about the beards .
and no matter how long i 've spent on the ocean , i haven 't yet managed to muster a decent beard ,
and i hope that it remains that way .
for a long time , i didn 't believe that i could have a big adventure .
the story that i told myself was that adventurers looked like this .
i didn 't look the part .
i thought there were them and there were us , and i was not one of them .
so for 11 years , i conformed .
i did what people from my kind of background were supposed to do .
i was working in an office in london as a management consultant .
and i think i knew from day one that it wasn 't the right job for me .
but that kind of conditioning just kept me there for so many years , until i reached my mid-30s and i thought , " you know , i 'm not getting any younger .
i feel like i 've got a purpose in this life , and i don 't know what it is , but i 'm pretty certain that management consultancy is not it .
so , fast forward a few years .
i 'd gone through some changes .
to try and answer that question of , " what am i supposed to be doing with my life ? "
i sat down one day and wrote two versions of my own obituary , the one that i wanted , a life of adventure , and the one that i was actually heading for which was a nice , normal , pleasant life , but it wasn 't where i wanted to be by the end of my life .
i wanted to live a life that i could be proud of .
and i remember looking at these two versions of my obituary and thinking , " oh boy , i 'm on totally the wrong track here .
if i carry on living as i am now , i 'm just not going to end up where i want to be in five years , or 10 years , or at the end of my life . "
i made a few changes , let go of some loose trappings of my old life , and through a bit of a leap of logic , decided to row across the atlantic ocean .
the atlantic rowing race runs from the canaries to antigua ,
it 's about 3,000 miles ,
and it turned out to be the hardest thing i had ever done .
sure , i had wanted to get outside of my comfort zone , but what i 'd sort of failed to notice was that getting out of your comfort zone is , by definition , extremely uncomfortable .
and my timing was not great either :
2005 , when i did the atlantic , was the year of hurricane katrina .
there were more tropical storms in the north atlantic than ever before , since records began .
and pretty early on , those storms started making their presence known .
all four of my oars broke before i reached halfway across .
oars are not supposed to look like this .
but what can you do ? you 're in the middle of the ocean . oars are your only means of propulsion .
so i just had to look around the boat and figure out what i was going to use to fix up these oars so that i could carry on .
so i found a boat hook and my trusty duct tape and splintered the boat hook to the oars to reinforce it .
then , when that gave out , i sawed the wheel axles off my spare rowing seat and used those .
and then when those gave out , i cannibalized one of the broken oars .
i 'd never been very good at fixing stuff when i was living my old life ,
but it 's amazing how resourceful you can become when you 're in the middle of the ocean and there 's only one way to get to the other side .
and the oars kind of became a symbol of just in how many ways i went beyond what i thought were my limits .
i suffered from tendinitis on my shoulders and saltwater sores on my bottom .
i really struggled psychologically , totally overwhelmed by the scale of the challenge , realizing that , if i carried on moving at two miles an hour , 3,000 miles was going to take me a very , very long time .
there were so many times when i thought i 'd hit that limit , but had no choice but to just carry on and try and figure out how i was going to get to the other side without driving myself crazy .
and eventually after 103 days at sea , i arrived in antigua .
i don 't think i 've ever felt so happy in my entire life .
it was a bit like finishing a marathon and getting out of solitary confinement and winning an oscar all rolled into one .
i was euphoric .
and to see all the people coming out to greet me and standing along the cliff tops and clapping and cheering , i just felt like a movie star .
it was absolutely wonderful .
and i really learned then that , the bigger the challenge , the bigger the sense of achievement when you get to the end of it .
so this might be a good moment to take a quick time-out to answer a few faqs about ocean rowing that might be going through your mind .
number one that i get asked : what do you eat ?
a few freeze-dried meals , but mostly i try and eat much more unprocessed foods .
so i grow my own beansprouts .
i eat fruits and nut bars , a lot of nuts . and generally arrive about 30 pounds lighter at the other end .
question number two : how do you sleep ?
with my eyes shut . ha-ha .
i suppose what you mean is : what happens to the boat while i 'm sleeping ?
well , i plan my route so that i 'm drifting with the winds and the currents while i 'm sleeping .
on a good night , i think my best ever was 11 miles in the right direction .
worst ever , 13 miles in the wrong direction .
that 's a bad day at the office .
what do i wear ?
mostly , a baseball cap , rowing gloves and a smile -- or a frown , depending on whether i went backwards overnight --
and lots of sun lotion .
do i have a chase boat ?
no i don 't . i 'm totally self-supporting out there .
i don 't see anybody for the whole time that i 'm at sea , generally .
and finally : am i crazy ?
well , i leave that one up to you to judge .
so , how do you top rowing across the atlantic ?
well , naturally , you decide to row across the pacific .
well , i thought the atlantic was big , but the pacific is really , really big .
i think we tend to do it a little bit of a disservice in our usual maps . i don 't know for sure that the brits invented this particular view of the world , but i suspect we might have done so : we are right in the middle ,
and we 've cut the pacific in half and flung it to the far corners of the world . whereas if you look in google earth , this is how the pacific looks .
it pretty much covers half the planet .
you can just see a little bit of north america up here and a sliver of australia down there .
it is really big --
65 million square miles --
and to row in a straight line across it would be about 8,000 miles .
unfortunately , ocean rowboats very rarely go in a straight line .
by the time i get to australia , if i get to australia , i will have rowed probably nine or 10,000 miles in all .
so , because nobody in their straight mind would row straight past hawaii without dropping in , i decided to cut this very big undertaking into three segments .
the first attempt didn 't go so well .
in 2007 , i did a rather involuntary capsize drill three times in 24 hours .
a bit like being in a washing machine .
boat got a bit dinged up , so did i .
i blogged about it . unfortunately , somebody with a bit of a hero complex decided that this damsel was in distress and needed saving .
the first i knew about this was when the coast guard plane turned up overhead .
i tried to tell them to go away .
we had a bit of a battle of wills .
i lost and got airlifted .
awful , really awful .
it was one of the worst feelings of my life ,
as i was lifted up on that winch line into the helicopter and looked down at my trusty little boat rolling around in the 20 foot waves and wondering if i would ever see her again .
so i had to launch a very expensive salvage operation and then wait another nine months before i could get back out onto the ocean again .
but what do you do ?
fall down nine times , get up 10 .
so , the following year , i set out and , fortunately , this time made it safely across to hawaii .
but it was not without misadventure .
my watermaker broke ,
only the most important piece of kit that i have on the boat .
powered by my solar panels , it sucks in saltwater and turns it into freshwater .
but it doesn 't react very well to being immersed in ocean , which is what happened to it .
fortunately , help was at hand .
there was another unusual boat out there at the same time , doing as i was doing , bringing awareness to the north pacific garbage patch , that area in the north pacific about twice the size of texas , with an estimated 3.5 million tons of trash in it , circulating at the center of that north pacific gyre .
so , to make the point , these guys had actually built their boat out of plastic trash , 15,000 empty water bottles latched together into two pontoons .
they were going very slowly .
partly , they 'd had a bit of a delay .
they 'd had to pull in at catalina island shortly after they left long beach because the lids of all the water bottles were coming undone , and they were starting to sink .
so they 'd had to pull in and do all the lids up .
but , as i was approaching the end of my water reserves , luckily , our courses were converging .
they were running out of food ; i was running out of water .
so we liaised by satellite phone and arranged to meet up .
and it took about a week for us to actually gradually converge .
i was doing a pathetically slow speed of about 1.3 knots , and they were doing only marginally less pathetic speed of about 1.4 :
it was like two snails in a mating dance .
but , eventually , we did manage to meet up and joel hopped overboard , caught us a beautiful , big mahi-mahi , which was the best food i 'd had in , ooh , at least three months .
fortunately , the one that he caught that day was better than this one they caught a few weeks earlier .
when they opened this one up , they found its stomach was full of plastic .
and this is really bad news because plastic is not an inert substance .
it leaches out chemicals into the flesh of the poor critter that ate it , and then we come along and eat that poor critter , and we get some of the toxins accumulating in our bodies as well .
so there are very real implications for human health .
i eventually made it to hawaii still alive .
and , the following year , set out on the second stage of the pacific , from hawaii down to tarawa .
and you 'll notice something about tarawa ; it is very low-lying .
it 's that little green sliver on the horizon ,
which makes them very nervous about rising oceans .
this is big trouble for these guys .
they 've got no points of land more than about six feet above sea level .
and also , as an increase in extreme weather events due to climate change , they 're expecting more waves to come in over the fringing reef , which will contaminate their fresh water supply .
i had a meeting with the president there , who told me about his exit strategy for his country .
he expects that within the next 50 years , the 100,000 people that live there will have to relocate to new zealand or australia .
and that made me think about how would i feel if britain was going to disappear under the waves ;
if the places where i 'd been born and gone to school and got married , if all those places were just going to disappear forever . how , literally , ungrounded that would make me feel .
very shortly , i 'll be setting out to try and get to australia , and if i 'm successful , i 'll be the first woman ever to row solo all the way across the pacific .
and i try to use this to bring awareness to these environmental issues , to bring a human face to the ocean .
if the atlantic was about my inner journey , discovering my own capabilities , maybe the pacific has been about my outer journey , figuring out how i can use my interesting career choice to be of service to the world , and to take some of those things that i 've learned out there and apply them to the situation that humankind now finds itself in .
i think there are probably three key points here .
the first one is about the stories that we tell ourselves .
for so long , i told myself that i couldn 't have an adventure because i wasn 't six foot tall and athletic and bearded .
and then that story changed .
i found out that people had rowed across oceans .
i even met one of them and she was just about my size .
so even though i didn 't grow any taller , i didn 't sprout a beard , something had changed : my interior dialogue had changed .
at the moment , the story that we collectively tell ourselves is that we need all this stuff , that we need oil .
but what about if we just change that story ?
we do have alternatives ,
and we have the power of free will to choose those alternatives , those sustainable ones , to create a greener future .
the second point is about the accumulation of tiny actions .
we might think that anything that we do as an individual is just a drop in the ocean , that it can 't really make a difference .
but it does . generally , we haven 't got ourselves into this mess through big disasters .
yes , there have been the exxon valdezes and the chernobyls , but mostly it 's been an accumulation of bad decisions by billions of individuals , day after day and year after year .
and , by the same token , we can turn that tide .
we can start making better , wiser , more sustainable decisions .
and when we do that , we 're not just one person .
anything that we do spreads ripples .
other people will see if you 're in the supermarket line and you pull out your reusable grocery bag .
maybe if we all start doing this , we can make it socially unacceptable to say yes to plastic in the checkout line .
that 's just one example .
this is a world-wide community .
the other point : it 's about taking responsibility .
for so much of my life , i wanted something else to make me happy .
i thought if i had the right house or the right car or the right man in my life , then i could be happy .
but when i wrote that obituary exercise , i actually grew up a little bit in that moment and realized that i needed to create my own future .
i couldn 't just wait passively for happiness to come and find me .
and i suppose i 'm a selfish environmentalist . i plan on being around for a long time , and when i 'm 90 years old , i want to be happy and healthy .
and it 's very difficult to be happy on a planet that 's racked with famine and drought .
it 's very difficult to be healthy on a planet where we 've poisoned the earth and the sea and the air .
so , shortly , i 'm going to be launching a new initiative called eco-heroes .
and the idea here is that all our eco-heroes will log at least one green deed every day .
it 's meant to be a bit of a game .
we 're going to make an iphone app out of it .
we just want to try and create that awareness because , sure , changing a light bulb isn 't going to change the world , but that attitude , that awareness that leads you to change the light bulb or take your reusable coffee mug , that is what could change the world .
i really believe that we stand at a very important point in history .
we have a choice . we 've been blessed , or cursed , with free will .
we can choose a greener future ,
and we can get there if we all pull together to take it one stroke at a time .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eddi _ reader _ sings _ about _ what _ you _ ve _ got.html
singer / songwriter eddi reader performs " what you do with what you 've got , " a meditation on a very ted theme : how to use your gifts and talents to make a difference . with thomas dolby on piano .
featured , arts , composing , entertainment , guitar , music , performance art , piano , potential , short talk , vocals
109
eddi reader on " what you 've got "
this song is one of thomas ' favorites , called " what you do with what you 've got . "
 you must know someone like him   he was tall and strong and lean   with a body like a greyhound   and a mind so sharp and keen   but his heart , just like laurel   grew twisted around itself   till almost everything he did   brought pain to someone else   it 's not just what you 're born with   it 's what you choose to bear   it 's not how big your share is   it 's how much you can share   it 's not the fights you dreamed of   it 's those you really fought   it 's not what you 've been given   it 's what you do with what you 've got   what 's the use of two strong legs   if you only run away ?   and what 's the use of the finest voice   if you 've nothing good to say ?   what 's the use of strength and muscle   if you only push and shove ?   and what 's the use of two good ears   if you can 't hear those you love ?   what 's the use of two strong legs   if you only run away ?   and what 's the use of the finest voice   if you 've nothing good to say ?   what 's the use of strength and muscle   if you only push and shove ?   and what 's the use of two good ears   if you can 't hear those you love ?   between those who use their neighbors   and those who use the cane   between those in constant power   and those in constant pain   between those who run to glory   and those who cannot run   tell me which ones are the cripples   and which ones touch the sun   which ones touch the sun   which ones touch the sun 
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / reed _ kroloff _ on _ modern _ and _ romantic _ architecture.html
reed kroloff gives us a new lens for judging new architecture : is it modern , or is it romantic ? look for glorious images from two leading practices -- and a blistering critique of the 9 / 11 planning process .
architecture , art , business , design , humor
318
reed kroloff on modern and romantic architecture
to be new at ted -- it 's like being the last high-school virgin .
you know that all of the cool people are -- they 're doing it .
and you 're on the outside , you 're at home . you 're like the raspyni brothers , where you 've got your balls in cold water . and -- -- you just play with your fingers all day . and then you get invited .
and you 're on the inside , and it 's everything you hoped it would be .
it 's exciting and there 's music playing all of the time and then suddenly it 's over . and it 's only taken five minutes .
and you want to go back and do it again . but i really appreciate being here . and thank you , chris , and also , thank you , deborah patton , for making this possible .
so anyway , today we 'll talk about architecture a little bit , within the subject of creation and optimism .
and if you put creation and optimism together , you 've got two choices that you can talk about .
you can talk about creationism -- which i think wouldn 't go down well with this audience , at least not from a view where you were a proponent of it -- or you can talk about optimisations , spelled the british way , with an s , instead of a z .
and i think that 's what i 'd like to talk about today .
but any kind of conversation about architecture -- which is , in fact , what you were just talking about , what was going on here , setting up ted , small-scale architecture -- at the present time can 't really happen without a conversation about this , the world trade center , and what 's been going on there , what it means to us .
because if architecture is what i believe it to be , which is the built form of our cultural ambitions , what do you do when presented with an opportunity to rectify a situation that represents somebody else 's cultural ambitions relative to us ? and our own opportunity to make something new there ?
this has been a really galvanizing issue for a long time .
i think that the world trade center in , rather an unfortunate way , brought architecture into focus in a way that i don 't think people had thought of in a long time , and made it a subject for common conversation .
i don 't remember , in my 20-year career of practicing and writing about architecture , a time when five people sat me down at a table and asked me very serious questions about zoning , fire exiting , safety concerns and whether carpet burns .
these are just not things we talked about very often .
and yet , now , it 's talked about all the time .
at the point where you can weaponize your buildings , you have to suddenly think about architecture in a very different way .
and so now we 're going to think about architecture in a very different way , we 're going to think about it like this .
how many of you saw usa today , today ? there it is . looks like that .
there 's the world trade center site , on the front cover .
they 've made a selection .
they 've chosen a project by daniel libeskind , the enfant terrible of the moment of architecture .
child-prodigy piano player , he started on the squeezebox , and moved to a little more serious issue , a bigger instrument , and now to an even larger instrument , upon which to work his particular brand of deconstructivist magic , as you see here .
he was one of six people who were invited to participate in this competition , after six previous firms struck out with things that were so stupid and banal that even the city of new york was forced to go , " oh , i 'm really sorry , we screwed up . "
right . can we do this again from the top , except use some people with a vague hint of talent , instead of just six utter boobs like we brought in last time , real estate hacks of the kind who usually plan our cities .
let 's bring in some real architects for a change .
and so we got this , or we had a choice of that . oh , stop clapping .
it 's too late . that is gone .
this was a scheme by a team called think , a new york-based team , and then there was that one , which was the libeskind scheme .
this one , this is going to be the new world trade center :
a giant hole in the ground with big buildings falling into it .
now , i don 't know what you think , but i think this is a pretty stupid decision , because what you 've done is just made a permanent memorial to destruction by making it look like the destruction is going to continue forever .
but that 's what we 're going to do .
but i want you to think about these things in terms of a kind of ongoing struggle that american architecture represents , and that these two things talk about very specifically .
and that is the wild divergence in how we choose our architects , in trying to decide whether we want architecture from the kind of technocratic solution to everything -- that there is a large , technical answer that can solve all problems , be they social , be they physical , be they chemical -- or something that 's more of a romantic solution .
now , i don 't mean romantic as in , this is a nice place to take someone on a date .
i mean romantic in the sense of , there are things larger and grander than us .
so , in the american tradition , the difference between the technocratic and the romantic , would be the difference between thomas jefferson 's cartesian grids spreading across the united states , that gives us basically the whole shape of every western state in the united states , as a really , truly , technocratic solution , a bowing to the -- in jefferson 's time -- current , popular philosophy of rationalism .
or the way we went to describe that later : manifest destiny .
now , which would you rather be ? a grid , or manifest destiny ?
manifest destiny .
it 's a big deal . it sounds big , it sounds important , it sounds solid . it sounds american . ballsy , serious , male .
and that kind of fight has gone on back and forth in architecture all the time .
i mean , it goes on in our private lives , too , every single day .
we all want to go out and buy an audi tt , don 't we ?
everyone here must own one , or at least they craved one the moment they saw one .
and then they hopped in it , turned the little electronic key , rather than the real key , zipped home on their new superhighway , and drove straight into a garage that looks like a tudor castle .
why ? why ? why do you want to do that ?
why do we all want to do that ? i even owned a tudor thing once myself .
it 's in our nature to go ricocheting back and forth between this technocratic solution and a larger , sort of more romantic image of where we are .
so we 're going to go straight into this .
can i have the lights off for a moment ?
i 'm going to talk about two architects very , very briefly that represent the current split , architecturally , between these two traditions of a technocratic or technological solution and a romantic solution .
and these are two of the top architectural practices in the united states today . one very young , one a little more mature .
this is the work of a firm called shop , and what you 're seeing here , is their isometric drawings of what will be a large-scale camera obscura in a public park .
does everybody know what a camera obscura is ?
yeah , it 's one of those giant camera lenses that takes a picture of the outside world -- it 's sort of a little movie , without any moving parts -- and projects it on a page , and you can see the world outside you as you walk around it .
this is just the outline of it , and you can see , does it look like a regular building ? no .
it 's actually non-orthogonal : it 's not up and down , square , rectangular , anything like that , that you 'd see in a normal shape of a building .
the computer revolution , the technocratic , technological revolution , has allowed us to jettison normal-shaped buildings , traditionally shaped buildings , in favor of non-orthogonal buildings such as this .
what 's interesting about it is not the shape .
what 's interesting about it is how it 's made . how it 's made .
a brand-new way to put buildings together , something called mass customization . no , it is not an oxymoron .
what makes the building expensive , in the traditional sense , is making individual parts custom , that you can 't do over and over again .
that 's why we all live in developer houses .
they all want to save money by building the same thing 500 times .
that 's because it 's cheaper .
mass customization works by an architect feeding into a computer , a program that says , manufacture these parts .
the computer then talks to a machine -- a computer-operated machine , a cad-cam machine -- that can make a zillion different changes , at a moment 's notice ,
because the computer is just a machine .
it doesn 't care . it 's manufacturing the parts .
it doesn 't see any excess cost . it doesn 't spend any extra time .
it 's not a laborer -- it 's simply an electronic lathe , so the parts can all be cut at the same time .
meanwhile , instead of sending someone working drawings , which are those huge sets of blueprints that you 've seen your whole life , what the architect can do is send a set of assembly instructions , like you used to get when you were a child , when you bought little models that said , " bolt a to b , and c to d. "
and so what the builder will get is every single individual part that has been custom manufactured off-site and delivered on a truck to the site , to that builder , and a set of these instruction manuals .
just simple " bolt a to b " and they will be able to put them together . here 's the little drawing that tells them how that works -- and that 's what will happen in the end .
you 're underneath it , looking up into the lens of the camera obscura .
lest you think this is all fiction , lest you think this is all fantasy , or romance , these same architects were asked to produce something for the central courtyard of ps1 , which is a museum in brooklyn , new york , as part of their young architects summer series .
and they said , well , it 's summer , what do you do ?
in the summer , you go to the beach .
and when you go to the beach , what do you get ? you get sand dunes .
so let 's make architectural sand dunes and a beach cabana .
so they went out and they modeled a computer model of a sand dune .
they took photographs , they fed the photographs into their computer program , and that computer program shaped a sand dune and then took that sand dune shape and turned it into -- at their instructions , using standard software with slight modifications -- a set of instructions for pieces of wood .
and those are the pieces of wood . those are the instructions .
these are the pieces , and here 's a little of that blown up .
what you can see is there 's about six different colors , and each color represents a type of wood to be cut , a piece of wood to be cut .
all of which were delivered by flat bed , on a truck , and hand assembled in 48 hours by a team of eight people , only one of whom had ever seen the plans before .
only one of whom had ever seen the plans before .
and here comes dune-scape , coming up out of the courtyard , and there it is fully built .
there are only 16 different pieces of wood ,
only 16 different assembly parts here .
looks like a beautiful piano sounding board on the inside .
it has its own built-in swimming pool , very , very cool .
it 's a great place for parties -- it was , it was only up for six weeks . it 's got little dressing rooms and cabanas , where lots of interesting things went on , all summer long .
now , lest you think that this is only for the light at heart , or just temporary installations , this is the same firm working at the world trade center , replacing the bridge that used to go across west street , that very important pedestrian connection between the city of new york and the redevelopment of the west side .
they were asked to design , replace that bridge in six weeks , building it , including all of the parts , manufactured .
and they were able to do it . that was their design , using that same computer modeling system and only five or six really different kinds of parts , a couple of struts , like this , some exterior cladding material and a very simple framing system that was all manufactured off-site and delivered by truck .
they were able to create that .
they were able to create something wonderful .
they 're now building a 16-story building on the side of new york , using the same technology .
here we 're going to walk across the bridge at night . it 's self-lit , you don 't need any overhead lighting , so the neighbors don 't complain about metal-halide lighting in their face .
here it is going across . and there , down the other side , and you get the same kind of grandeur .
now , let me show you , quickly , the opposite , if i may .
woo , pretty , huh . this is the other side of the coin .
this is the work of david rockwell from new york city , whose work you can see out here today .
the current king of the romantics , who approaches his work in a very different fashion .
it 's not to create a technological solution , it 's to seduce you into something that you can do , into something that will please you , something that will lift your spirits , something that will make you feel as if are in another world -- such as his nobu restaurant in new york , which is supposed to take you from the clutter of new york city to the simplicity of japan and the elegance of japanese tradition .
" when it 's all said and done , it 's got to look like seaweed , " said the owner .
or his restaurant , pod , in philadelphia , pennsylvania .
i want you to know the room you 're looking at is stark white .
every single surface of this restaurant is white .
the reason it has so much color is that it changes using lighting .
it 's all about sensuality . it 's all about transforming .
watch this -- i 'm not touching any buttons , ladies and gentlemen .
this is happening by itself .
it transforms through the magic of lighting .
it 's all about sensuality . it 's all about touch .
rosa mexicano restaurant , where he transports us to the shores of acapulco , up on the upper west side , with this wall of cliff divers who -- there you go , like that .
let 's see it one more time .
okay , just to make sure that you 've enjoyed it .
and finally , it 's about comfort , it 's about making you feel good in places that you wouldn 't have felt good before .
it 's about bringing nature to the inside .
in the guardian tower of new york , converted to a w union square -- i 'm sorry i 'm rushing -- where we had to bring in the best horticulturists in the world to make sure that the interior of this dragged the garden space of the court garden of the union square into the building itself .
it 's about stimulation .
this is a wine-buying experience simplified by color and taste . fizzy , fresh , soft , luscious , juicy , smooth , big and sweet wines , all explained to you by color and texture on the wall . and finally , it 's about entertainment , as in his headquarters for the cirque du soleil , orlando , florida , where you 're asked to enter the greek theater , look under the tent and join the magic world of cirque du soleil .
and i think i 'll probably leave it at that . thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eddi _ reader _ sings _ kiteflyer _ s _ hill.html
singer / songwriter eddi reader performs " kiteflyer 's hill , " a tender look back at a lost love . with thomas dolby on piano .
featured , arts , composing , entertainment , guitar , memory , music , performance , piano , short talk
110
eddi reader sings " kiteflyer 's hill "
this is about a place in london called kiteflyer 's hill where i used to go and spend hours going " when is he coming back ? when is he coming back ? "
so this is another one dedicated to that guy ...
who i 've got over .
but this is " kiteflyer 's hill . "
it 's a beautiful song written by a guy called martin evan , actually , for me .
boo hewerdine , thomas dolby ,
thank you very much for inviting me . it 's been a blessing singing for you .
thank you very much .
 do you remember when we used to go   up to kiteflyer 's hill ?   those summer nights , so still   with all of the city beneath us   and all of our lives ahead   before cruel and foolish words   were cruelly and foolishly said   some nights i think of you   and then i go up   on kiteflyer 's hill   wrapped up against the winter chill   and somewhere in the city beneath me   you lie asleep in your bed   and i wonder if ever just briefly   do i creep in your dreams now and then   where are you now ?   my wild summer love   where are you now ?   have the years been kind ?   and do you think of me sometimes   up on kiteflyer 's hill ?   oh , i pray you one day will   we won 't say a word   we won 't need them   sometimes silence is best   we 'll just stand in the still of the evening   and whisper farewell to loneliness   where are you now ?   my wild summer love   where are you now ?   do you think of me sometimes ?   and do you ever make that climb ?   where are you now ?   my wild summer love   where are you now ?   have the years been kind ?   and do you ever make that climb   up on kiteflyer 's hill ? kiteflyer 's ...   [ french ]   where are you ? where are you now ?   where are you now ?   kiteflyer 's ...  gracias . thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / ravin _ agrawal _ 10 _ young _ indian _ artists _ to _ watch.html
collector ravin agrawal delivers a glowing introduction to 10 of india 's most exciting young contemporary artists . working in a variety of media , each draws on their local culture for inspiration .
asia , art , arts , design , future
743
ravin agrawal : 10 young indian artists to watch
right now is the most exciting time to see new indian art .
contemporary artists in india are having a conversation with the world like never before .
i thought it might be interesting , even for the many long-time collectors here with us at ted , local collectors , to have an outside view of 10 young indian artists i wish everyone at ted to know .
the first is bharti kher .
the central motif of bharti 's practice is the ready-made store-bought bindi that untold millions of indian women apply to their foreheads , every day , in an act closely associated with the institution of marriage .
but originally the significance of the bindi is to symbolize the third eye between the spiritual world and the religious world .
bharti seeks to liberate this everyday cliche , as she calls it , by exploding it into something spectacular .
she also creates life-size fiberglass sculptures , often of animals , which she then completely covers in bindis , often with potent symbolism .
she says she first got started with 10 packets of bindis , and then wondered what she could do with 10 thousand .
our next artist , balasubramaniam , really stands at the crossroads of sculpture , painting and installation , working wonders with fiberglass .
since bala himself will be speaking at ted i won 't spend too much time on him here today , except to say that he really succeeds at making the invisible visible .
brooklyn-based chitra ganesh is known for her digital collages , using indian comic books called amar chitra kathas as her primary source material .
these comics are a fundamental way that children , especially in the diaspora , learn their religious and mythological folk tales .
i , for one , was steeped in these .
chitra basically remixes and re-titles these iconic images to tease out some of the sexual and gender politics embedded in these deeply influential comics .
and she uses this vocabulary in her installation work as well .
jitish kallat successfully practices across photography , sculpture , painting and installation .
as you can see , he 's heavily influenced by graffiti and street art , and his home city of mumbai is an ever-present element in his work .
he really captures that sense of density and energy which really characterizes modern urban bombay .
he also creates phantasmagoric sculptures made of bones from cast resin .
here he envisions the carcass of an autorickshaw he once witnessed burning in a riot .
this next artist , n.s. harsha , actually has a studio right here in mysore .
he 's putting a contemporary spin on the miniature tradition .
he creates these fine , delicate images which he then repeats on a massive scale .
he uses scale to more and more spectacular effect , whether on the roof of a temple in singapore , or in his increasingly ambitious installation work , here with 192 functioning sewing machines , fabricating the flags of every member of the united nations .
mumbai-based dhruvi acharya builds on her love of comic books and street art to comment on the roles and expectations of modern indian women .
she too mines the rich source material of amar chitra kathas , but in a very different way than chitra ganesh .
in this particular work , she actually strips out the images and leaves the actual text to reveal something previously unseen , and provocative .
raqib shaw is kolkata-born , kashmir-raised , and london-trained .
he too is reinventing the miniature tradition .
he creates these opulent tableaus inspired by hieronymus bosch , but also by the kashmiri textiles of his youth .
he actually applies metallic industrial paints to his work using porcupine quills to get this rich detailed effect .
i 'm kind of cheating with this next artist since raqs media collective are really three artists working together .
raqs are probably the foremost practitioners of multimedia art in india today , working across photography , video and installation .
they frequently explore themes of globalization and urbanization , and their home of delhi is a frequent element in their work .
here , they invite the viewer to analyze a crime looking at evidence and clues embedded in five narratives on these five different screens , in which the city itself may have been the culprit .
this next artist is probably the alpha male of contemporary indian art , subodh gupta .
he was first known for creating giant photo-realistic canvases , paintings of everyday objects , the stainless steel kitchen vessels and tiffin containers known to every indian .
he celebrates these local and mundane objects globally , and on a grander and grander scale , by incorporating them into ever more colossal sculptures and installations .
and finally number 10 , last and certainly not least , ranjani shettar , who lives and works here in the state of karnataka , creates ethereal sculptures and installations that really marry the organic to the industrial , and brings , like subodh , the local global .
these are actually wires wrapped in muslin and steeped in vegetable dye .
and she arranges them so that the viewer actually has to navigate through the space , and interact with the objects .
and light and shadow are a very important part of her work .
she also explores themes of consumerism , and the environment , such as in this work , where these basket-like objects look organic and woven , and are woven , but with the strips of steel , salvaged from cars that she found in a bangalore junkyard .
10 artists , six minutes , i know that was a lot to take in .
but i can only hope i 've whet your appetite to go out and see and learn more about the amazing things that are happening in art in india today .
thank you very much for looking and listening .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / al _ seckel _ says _ our _ brains _ are _ mis _ wired.html
al seckel , a cognitive neuroscientist , explores the perceptual illusions that fool our brains . loads of eye tricks help him prove that not only are we easily fooled , we kind of like it .
arts , brain , cognitive science , culture , design , illusion , psychology
78
al seckel says our brains are mis-wired
we 're going to talk -- my -- a new lecture , just for ted -- and i 'm going show you some illusions that we 've created for ted , and i 'm going to try to relate this to happiness . what i was thinking about with happiness is , what gives happiness -- or happiness , which i equate with joy in my particular area , and i think there 's something very fundamental . and i was thinking about this . and it 's in terms of both illusions and movies that we go see and jokes and magic shows is that there 's something about these things where our expectations are violated in some sort of pleasing way . you go see a movie . and it has an unexpected twist -- something that you didn 't expect -- and you find a joyful experience . you look at those sort of illusions in my book and it 's not as what you 'd expect . and there 's something joyful about it . and it 's the same thing with jokes and all these sorts of things . so , what i 'm going to try and do in my lecture is go a little bit further and see if i can violate your expectations in a pleasing way . i mean , sometimes expectations that are violated are not pleasant , but i 'm going to try to do it in a pleasant way , in a very primal way , so i can make the audience here happy .
so i 'm going to show you some ways that we can violate your expectations . first of all , i want to show you the particular illusion here . i want you first of all when it pops up on the screen to notice that the two holes are perpendicular to each other . these are all perceptual tricks . these are real objects that i 'm going to show you . now i 'm going to show you how it is done . i 've looped the film here so you can get a very interesting experience . i want you to see how this illusion is constructed , and it 's going to rotate so you see that it 's inside out . now watch , as it rotates back , how quickly your perception snaps . ok now .
watch it as it rotates back again . and this is a very bright audience , all right ? see if you can stop it from happening , even though you know 100 percent it 's true that -- bam ! you can 't undo it . what does that tell you about yourselves ? we 're going to do it again . no doubt about it . see if you can stop it from happening . no . it 's difficult .
and we can violate your expectations in a whole variety of ways about representation , about shape , about color and so forth and it 's very primal . and
it 's an interesting question to ponder , why these things -- we find these things joyful . why would we find them joyful ? so , here 's something that
lionel did a while ago . i like these sort of
little things like this .
again , this is not an optical trick . this is what you would see . in other words , it 's not a camera cut . it 's a perceptual trick .
ok . we can violate your expectations about shape .
we can violate your expectations on representation -- what an image represents . what do you see here ?
how many of you here see dolphins ? raise your hand if you see dolphins . ok , those people who raised their hands , afterwards , the rest of the audience , go talk to them , all right ? actually , this is the best example of priming by experience that i know .
if you are a child under the age of 10 who haven 't been ruined yet , you will look at this image and see dolphins . now , some of you adults here are saying , " what dolphins ? what dolphins ? "
but in fact , if you reversed the figure ground -- in other words , the dark areas here -- i forgot to ask for a pointer -- but if you reverse it , you 'll see a whole series of little dolphins . by the way , if you 're also a student at caltech -- they also tend to just see the dolphins . it 's based on experience .
now , something like this can be used because this is after all talk about design , too . this was done by saatchi and saatchi , and they actually got away with this ad in australia . so , if you look at this ad for beer , all those people are in sort of provocative positions . but they got it passed , and actually won the clio awards , so it 's funny how you can do these things .
remember that sort of , um . this is the joke i did when the florida ballot was going around . you know , count the dots for gore ; count the dots for bush ; count ' em again ...
you can violate your expectations about experience . here is an outside water fountain that i created with some friends of mine , but you can stop the water in drops and -- actually make all the drops levitate . this is something we 're building for , you know , amusement parks and that kind of stuff .
now let 's take a static image . can you see this ?
do you see the middle section moving down and the outer sections moving up ? it 's completely static .
it 's a static image . how many people see this illusion ? it 's completely static .
right . now , when -- it 's interesting that when we look at an image we see , you know , color , depth , texture . and you can look at this whole scene and analyze it . you can see the woman is in closer than the wall and so forth . but the whole thing is actually flat . it 's painted . it 's trompe l 'oeil .
and it was such a good trompe l 'oeil that people got irritated when they tried to talk to the woman and she wouldn 't respond .
now , you can make design mistakes . like this building in new york . so that when you see it from this side , it looks like the balconies tilt up , and when you walk around to the other side it looks like the balconies go down . so there are cases where you have mistakes in design that incorporate illusions .
or , you take this particular un-retouched photograph . now , interestingly enough , i get a lot of emails from people who say , " is there any perceptual difference between males and females ? " and i really say , " no . " i mean , women can navigate through the world just as well as males can -- and why wouldn 't they ? however , this is the one illusion that women can consistently do better than males : in matching which head because they rely on fashion cues . they can match the hat .
okay , now getting to a part -- i want to show design in illusions . i believe that the first example of illusions being used purposely was by da vinci in this anamorphic image of an eye . so that when you saw from one little angle was like
this . and this little technique got popular in the 16th century and the 17th century to disguise hidden meanings , where you could flip the image and see it from one little point of view like this .
but these are early incorporations of illusions brought to -- sort of high point with hans holbein 's " ambassadors . " and hans holbein worked for henry viii . this was hung on a wall where you could walk down from the stair and you can see this hidden skull .
all right , now i 'm going to show you some designers who work with illusions to give that element of surprise . one of my favorites is scott kim . i worked with scott to create some illusions for ted that i hope you will enjoy . we have one here on ted and happiness .
ok now . arthur [ ganson ] hasn 't talked yet , but his is going to be a delightful talk and he has some of his really fantastic machines outside . and so , we -- scott created this wonderful tribute to arthur ganson .
well , there 's analog and digital . thought that was appropriate here .
and figure goes to ground . and for the musicians .
and of course , since happiness -- we want " joy to the world . " now , another great designer -- he 's very well known in japan -- shigeo fukuda . and he just builds some fantastic things . this is simply amazing . this is a pile of junk that when you view it from one particular angle , you see its reflection in the mirror as a perfect piano .
pianist transforms to violinist .
this is really wild . this assemblage of forks , knives and spoons and various cutlery , welded together . it gives a shadow of a motorcycle . you learn something in the sort of thing that i do , which is there are people out there with a lot of time on their hands .
ken knowlton does wonderful composite images , like creating jacques cousteau out of seashells -- un-retouched seashells , but just by rearranging
them . he did einstein out of dice because , after all , einstein said , " god does not play dice with the universe . " bert herzog out of un-retouched keyboards . will shortz , crossword puzzle . john
cederquist does these wonderful trompe l 'oeil cabinets .
now , i 'm going to skip ahead since i 'm sort of running
[ behind ] . i want to show you quickly what i 've
created , some new type of illusions . i 've done something with taking the pixar-type illusions . so you see these kids the same size here , running down the hall . the two table tops of the same size .
they 're looking out two directions at once . you
have a larger piece fitting in with a smaller . and
that 's something for you to think about , all
right ? so you see larger pieces fitting in within smaller pieces here . does everyone see that ? which is impossible . you can see the two kids are looking out simultaneously out of two different
directions at once . now can you believe these two table tops are the same size and shape ? they are .
so , if you measured them , they would be . and as i say , those two figures are identical in size and shape .
and it 's interesting , by doing this in this sort of rendered fashion , how much stronger the illusions are . any case , i hope this has brought you a little joy and happiness , and if you 're interested in seeing more cool effects , see me outside . i 'd be happy to show you lots of things .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eric _ berlow _ how _ complexity _ leads _ to _ simplicity.html
ecologist eric berlow doesn 't feel overwhelmed when faced with complex systems . he knows that more information can lead to a better , simpler solution . illustrating the tips and tricks for breaking down big issues , he distills an overwhelming infographic on u.s. strategy in afghanistan to a few elementary points .
complexity , design , science
1006
eric berlow : how complexity leads to simplicity
do you ever feel completely overwhelmed when you 're faced with a complex problem ?
well , i hope to change that in less than three minutes .
so , i hope to convince you that complex doesn 't always equal complicated .
so for me , a well-crafted baguette , fresh out of the oven , is complex , but a curry onion green olive poppy cheese bread is complicated .
i 'm an ecologist , and i study complexity . i love complexity .
and i study that in the natural world , the interconnectedness of species .
so here 's a food web , or a map of feeding links between species that live in alpine lakes in the mountains of california .
and this is what happens to that food web when it 's stocked with non-native fish that never lived there before .
all the grayed-out species disappear .
some are actually on the brink of extinction .
and lakes with fish have more mosquitoes , even though they eat them .
these effects were all unanticipated , and yet we 're discovering they 're predictable .
so i want to share with you a couple key insights about complexity we 're learning from studying nature that maybe are applicable to other problems .
first is the simple power of good visualization tools to help untangle complexity and just encourage you to ask questions you didn 't think of before .
for example , you could plot the flow of carbon through corporate supply chains in a corporate ecosystem , or the interconnections of habitat patches for endangered species in yosemite national park .
the next thing is that if you want to predict the effect of one species on another , if you focus only on that link , and then you black box the rest , it 's actually less predictable than if you step back , consider the entire system -- all the species , all the links -- and from that place , hone in on the sphere of influence that matters most .
and we 're discovering , with our research , that 's often very local to the node you care about within one or two degrees .
so the more you step back , embrace complexity , the better chance you have of finding simple answers , and it 's often different than the simple answer that you started with .
so let 's switch gears and look at a really complex problem courtesy of the u.s. government .
this is a diagram of the u.s. counterinsurgency strategy in afghanistan .
it was front page of the new york times a couple months ago . instantly ridiculed by the media for being so crazy complicated .
and the stated goal was to increase popular support for the afghan government .
clearly a complex problem , but is it complicated ?
well , when i saw this in the front page of the times , i thought , " great . finally something i can relate to .
i can sink my teeth into this . "
so let 's do it . so here we go for the first time ever , a world premiere view of this spaghetti diagram as an ordered network .
the circled node is the one we 're trying to influence -- popular support for the government .
and so now we can look one degrees , two degrees , three degrees away from that node and eliminate three-quarters of the diagram outside that sphere of influence .
within that sphere , most of those nodes are not actionable , like the harshness of the terrain , and a very small minority are actual military actions .
most are non-violent and they fall into two broad categories : active engagement with ethnic rivalries and religious beliefs and fair , transparent economic development and provisioning of services .
i don 't know about this , but this is what i can decipher from this diagram in 24 seconds .
when you see a diagram like this , i don 't want you to be afraid .
i want you to be excited . i want you to be relieved .
because simple answers may emerge .
we 're discovering in nature that simplicity often lies on the other side of complexity .
so for any problem , the more you can zoom out and embrace complexity , the better chance you have of zooming in on the simple details that matter most .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / margaret _ wertheim _ crochets _ the _ coral _ reef.html
margaret wertheim leads a project to re-create the creatures of the coral reefs using a crochet technique invented by a mathematician -- celebrating the amazements of the reef , and deep-diving into the hyperbolic geometry underlying coral creation .
art , design , math , oceans , science , visualizations
519
margaret wertheim : the beautiful math of coral
i 'm here today , as june said , to talk about a project that my twin sister and i have been doing for the past three and half years .
we 're crocheting a coral reef .
and it 's a project that we 've actually been now joined by hundreds of people around the world , who are doing it with us . indeed thousands of people have actually been involved in this project , in many of its different aspects .
it 's a project that now reaches across three continents ,
and its roots go into the fields of mathematics , marine biology , feminine handicraft and environmental activism .
it 's true .
it 's also a project that in a very beautiful way , the development of this has actually paralleled the evolution of life on earth , which is a particularly lovely thing to be saying right here in february 2009 -- which , as one of our previous speakers told us , is the 200th anniversary of the birth of charles darwin .
all of this i 'm going to get to in the next 18 minutes , i hope .
but let me first begin by showing you some pictures of what this thing looks like .
just to give you an idea of scale , that installation there is about six feet across ,
and the tallest models are about two or three feet high .
this is some more images of it .
that one on the right is about five feet high .
the work involves hundreds of different crochet models .
and indeed there are now thousands and thousands of models that people have contributed all over the world as part of this .
the totality of this project involves tens of thousands of hours of human labor -- 99 percent of it done by women .
on the right hand side , that bit there is part of an installation that is about 12 feet long .
my sister and i started this project in 2005 because in that year , at least in the science press , there was a lot of talk about global warming , and the effect that global warming was having on coral reefs .
corals are very delicate organisms ,
and they are devastated by any rise in sea temperatures .
it causes these vast bleaching events that are the first signs of corals of being sick .
and if the bleaching doesn 't go away -- if the temperatures don 't go down -- reefs start to die .
a great deal of this has been happening in the great barrier reef , particularly in coral reefs all over the world .
this is our invocation in crochet of a bleached reef .
we have a new organization together called the institute for figuring , which is a little organization we started to promote , to do projects about the aesthetic and poetic dimensions of science and mathematics .
and i went and put a little announcement up on our site , asking for people to join us in this enterprise .
to our surprise , one of the first people who called was the andy warhol museum .
and they said they were having an exhibition about artists ' response to global warming , and they 'd like our coral reef to be part of it .
i laughed and said , " well we 've only just started it , you can have a little bit of it . " so in 2007 we had an exhibition , a small exhibition of this crochet reef .
and then some people in chicago came along and they said , " in late 2007 , the theme of the chicago humanities festival is global warming . and we 've got this 3,000 square-foot gallery and we want you to fill it with your reef . " and i , naively by this stage , said , " oh , yes , sure . " now i say " naively " because actually my profession is as a science writer .
what i do is i write books about the cultural history of physics .
i 've written books about the history of space , the history of physics and religion , and i write articles for people like the new york times and the l.a. times .
so i had no idea what it meant to fill a 3,000 square-foot gallery .
so i said yes to this proposition .
and i went home , and i told my sister christine .
and she nearly had a fit because christine is a professor at one of l.a. ' s major art colleges , calarts , and she knew exactly what it meant to fill a 3,000 square-foot gallery .
she thought i 'd gone off my head .
but she went into crochet overdrive .
and to cut a long story short , eight months later we did fill the chicago cultural center 's 3,000 square foot gallery .
by this stage the project had taken on a viral dimension of its own , which got completely beyond us .
the people in chicago decided that as well as exhibiting our reefs , what they wanted to do was have the local people there make a reef .
so we went and taught the techniques . we did workshops and lectures . and the people in chicago made a reef of their own .
and it was exhibited alongside ours .
there were hundreds of people involved in that .
we got invited to do the whole thing in new york , and in london , and in los angeles .
in each of these cities , the local citizens , hundreds and hundreds of them , have made a reef .
and more and more people get involved in this , most of whom we 've never met .
so the whole thing has sort of morphed into this organic , ever-evolving creature , that 's actually gone way beyond christine and i .
now some of you are sitting here thinking , " what planet are these people on ?
why on earth are you crocheting a reef ?
woolenness and wetness aren 't exactly two concepts that go together .
why not chisel a coral reef out of marble ?
cast it in bronze . " but it turns out there is a very good reason why we are crocheting it because many organisms in coral reefs have a very particular kind of structure .
the frilly crenulated forms that you see in corals , and kelps , and sponges and nudibranchs , is a form of geometry known as hyperbolic geometry .
and the only way that mathematicians know how to model this structure is with crochet . it happens to be a fact .
it 's almost impossible to model this structure any other way ,
and it 's almost impossible to do it on computers .
so what is this hyperbolic geometry that corals and sea slugs embody ?
the next few minutes is , we 're all going to get raised up to the level of a sea slug .
this sort of geometry revolutionized mathematics when it was first discovered in the 19th century .
but not until 1997 did mathematicians actually understand how they could model it .
in 1997 a mathematician at cornell , daina taimina , made the discovery that this structure could actually be done in knitting and crochet .
the first one she did was knitting .
but you get too many stitches on the needle . so she quickly realized crochet was the better thing .
but what she was doing was actually making a model of a mathematical structure , that many mathematicians had thought it was actually impossible to model .
and indeed they thought that anything like this structure was impossible per se .
some of the best mathematicians spent hundreds of years trying to prove that this structure was impossible .
so what is this impossible hyperbolic structure ?
before hyperbolic geometry , mathematicians knew about two kinds of space : euclidean space , and spherical space .
and they have different properties .
mathematicians like to characterize things by being formalist .
you all have a sense of what a flat space is , euclidean space is .
but mathematicians formalize this in a particular way .
and what they do is , they do it through the concept of parallel lines .
so here we have a line and a point outside the line .
and euclid said , " how can i define parallel lines ?
i ask the question , how many lines can i draw through the point but never meet the original line ? " and you all know the answer . does someone want to shout it out ?
one . great . okay .
that 's our definition of a parallel line .
it 's a definition really of euclidean space .
but there is another possibility that you all know of : spherical space .
think of the surface of a sphere -- just like a beach ball , the surface of the earth .
i have a straight line on my spherical surface .
and i have a point outside the line . how many straight lines can i draw through the point but never meet the original line ?
what do we mean to talk about a straight line on a curved surface ?
now mathematicians have answered that question .
they 've understood there is a generalized concept of straightness , it 's called a geodesic .
and on the surface of a sphere , a straight line is the biggest possible circle you can draw .
so it 's like the equator or the lines of longitude .
so we ask the question again , " how many straight lines can i draw through the point , but never meet the original line ? " does someone want to guess ?
zero . very good .
now mathematicians thought that was the only alternative .
it 's a bit suspicious isn 't it ? there is two answers to the question so far , zero and one .
two answers ? there may possibly be a third alternative .
to a mathematician if there are two answers , and the first two are zero and one , there is another number that immediately suggests itself as the third alternative .
does anyone want to guess what it is ?
infinity . you all got it right . exactly .
there is , there 's a third alternative .
this is what it looks like .
there 's a straight line , and there is an infinite number of lines that go through the point and never meet the original line .
this is the drawing .
this nearly drove mathematicians bonkers because , like you , they 're sitting there feeling bamboozled . thinking , how can that be ? you 're cheating . the lines are curved .
but that 's only because i 'm projecting it onto a flat surface .
mathematicians for several hundred years had to really struggle with this .
how could they see this ?
what did it mean to actually have a physical model that looked like this ?
it 's a bit like this : imagine that we 'd only ever encountered euclidean space .
then our mathematicians come along and said , " there 's this thing called a sphere , and the lines come together at the north and south pole . " but you don 't know what a sphere looks like .
and someone that comes along and says , " look here 's a ball . " and you go , " ah ! i can see it . i can feel it . i can touch it . i can play with it . " and that 's exactly what happened when daina taimina in 1997 , showed that you could crochet models in hyperbolic space .
here is this diagram in crochetness .
i 've stitched euclid 's parallel postulate on to the surface .
and the lines look curved .
but look , i can prove to you that they 're straight because i can take any one of these lines , and i can fold along it .
and it 's a straight line .
so here , in wool , through a domestic feminine art , is the proof that the most famous postulate in mathematics is wrong .
and you can stitch all sorts of mathematical theorems onto these surfaces .
the discovery of hyperbolic space ushered in the field of mathematics that is called non-euclidean geometry .
and this is actually the field of mathematics that underlies general relativity and is actually ultimately going to show us about the shape of the universe .
so there is this direct line between feminine handicraft , euclid and general relativity .
now , i said that mathematicians thought that this was impossible .
here 's two creatures who 've never heard of euclid 's parallel postulate -- didn 't know it was impossible to violate , and they 're simply getting on with it .
they 've been doing it for hundreds of millions of years .
i once asked the mathematicians why it was that mathematicians thought this structure was impossible when sea slugs have been doing it since the silurian age .
their answer was interesting .
they said , " well i guess there aren 't that many mathematicians sitting around looking at sea slugs . " and that 's true . but it also goes deeper than that .
it also says a whole lot of things about what mathematicians thought mathematics was ,
what they thought it could and couldn 't do ,
what they thought it could and couldn 't represent .
even mathematicians , who in some sense are the freest of all thinkers , literally couldn 't see not only the sea slugs around them , but the lettuce on their plate -- because lettuces , and all those curly vegetables , they also are embodiments of hyperbolic geometry .
and so in some sense they literally , they had such a symbolic view of mathematics , they couldn 't actually see what was going on on the lettuce in front of them .
it turns out that the natural world is full of hyperbolic wonders .
and so , too , we 've discovered that there is an infinite taxonomy of crochet hyperbolic creatures .
we started out , chrissy and i and our contributors , doing the simple mathematically perfect models .
but we found that when we deviated from the specific setness of the mathematical code that underlies it -- the simple algorithm crochet three , increase one -- when we deviated from that and made embellishments to the code , the models immediately started to look more natural .
and all of our contributors , who are an amazing collection of people around the world , do their own embellishments .
as it were , we have this ever-evolving , crochet taxonomic tree of life .
just as the morphology and the complexity of life on earth is never ending , little embellishments and complexifications in the dna code lead to new things like giraffes , or orchids --
so too , do little embellishments in the crochet code lead to new and wondrous creatures in the evolutionary tree of crochet life .
so this project really has taken on this inner organic life of its own .
there is the totality of all the people who have come to it . and their individual visions , and their engagement with this mathematical mode .
we have these technologies . we use them .
but why ? what 's at stake here ? what does it matter ?
for chrissy and i , one of the things that 's important here is that these things suggest the importance and value of embodied knowledge .
we live in a society that completely tends to valorize symbolic forms of representation -- algebraic representations , equations , codes .
we live in a society that 's obsessed with presenting information in this way , teaching information in this way .
but through this sort of modality , crochet , other plastic forms of play -- people can be engaged with the most abstract , high-powered , theoretical ideas , the kinds of ideas that normally you have to go to university departments to study in higher mathematics ,
which is where i first learned about hyperbolic space .
but you can do it through playing with material objects .
one of the ways that we 've come to think about this is that what we 're trying to do with the institute for figuring and projects like this , we 're trying to have kindergarten for grown-ups .
and kindergarten was actually a very formalized system of education , established by a man named friedrich froebel , who was a crystallographer in the 19th century .
he believed that the crystal was the model for all kinds of representation .
he developed a radical alternative system of engaging the smallest children with the most abstract ideas through physical forms of play .
and he is worthy of an entire talk on his own right .
the value of education is something that froebel championed , through plastic modes of play .
we live in a society now where we have lots of think tanks , where great minds go to think about the world .
they write these great symbolic treatises called books , and papers , and op-ed articles .
we want to propose , chrissy and i , through the institute for figuring , another alternative way of doing things , which is the play tank .
and the play tank , like the think tank , is a place where people can go and engage with great ideas .
but what we want to propose , is that the highest levels of abstraction , things like mathematics , computing , logic , etc . -- all of this can be engaged with , not just through purely cerebral algebraic symbolic methods , but by literally , physically playing with ideas .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / vilayanur _ ramachandran _ on _ your _ mind.html
vilayanur ramachandran tells us what brain damage can reveal about the connection between celebral tissue and the mind , using three startling delusions as examples .
brain , consciousness , culture , illness , illusion , science , technology
184
vs ramachandran on your mind
well , as chris pointed out , i study the human brain , the functions and structure of the human brain .
and i just want you to think for a minute about what this entails .
here is this mass of jelly , three-pound mass of jelly you can hold in the palm of your hand , and it can contemplate the vastness of interstellar space .
it can contemplate the meaning of infinity and it can contemplate itself contemplating on the meaning of infinity .
and this peculiar recursive quality that we call self-awareness , which i think is the holy grail of neuroscience , of neurology , and hopefully , someday , we 'll understand how that happens .
ok , so how do you study this mysterious organ ?
i mean , you have 100 billion nerve cells , little wisps of protoplasm , interacting with each other , and from this activity emerges the whole spectrum of abilities that we call human nature and human consciousness .
how does this happen ?
well , there are many ways of approaching the functions of the human brain .
one approach , the one we use mainly , is to look at patients with sustained damage to a small region of the brain , where there 's been a genetic change in a small region of the brain .
what then happens is not an across-the-board reduction in all your mental capacities , a sort of blunting of your cognitive ability .
what you get is a highly selective loss of one function , with other functions being preserved intact , and this gives you some confidence in asserting that that part of the brain is somehow involved in mediating that function .
so you can then map function onto structure , and then find out what the circuitry 's doing to generate that particular function .
so that 's what we 're trying to do .
so let me give you a few striking examples of this .
in fact , i 'm giving you three examples , six minutes each , during this talk .
the first example is an extraordinary syndrome called capgras syndrome .
if you look at the first slide there , that 's the temporal lobes , frontal lobes , parietal lobes , ok -- the lobes that constitute the brain .
and if you look , tucked away inside the inner surface of the temporal lobes -- you can 't see it there -- is a little structure called the fusiform gyrus .
and that 's been called the face area in the brain , because when it 's damaged , you can no longer recognize people 's faces .
you can still recognize them from their voice and say , " oh yeah , that 's joe , " but you can 't look at their face and know who it is , right ?
you can 't even recognize yourself in the mirror .
i mean , you know it 's you because you wink and it winks , and you know it 's a mirror , but you don 't really recognize yourself as yourself .
ok . now that syndrome is well known as caused by damage to the fusiform gyrus .
but there 's another rare syndrome , so rare , in fact , that very few physicians have heard about it , not even neurologists .
this is called the capgras delusion ,
and that is a patient , who 's otherwise completely normal , has had a head injury , comes out of coma ,
otherwise completely normal , he looks at his mother and says , " this looks exactly like my mother , this woman , but she 's an impostor . she 's some other woman pretending to be my mother . " now , why does this happen ?
why would somebody -- and this person is perfectly lucid and intelligent in all other respects , but when he sees his mother , his delusion kicks in and says , it 's not mother .
now , the most common interpretation of this , which you find in all the psychiatry textbooks , is a freudian view , and that is that this chap -- and the same argument applies to women , by the way , but i 'll just talk about guys . when you 're a little baby , a young baby , you had a strong sexual attraction to your mother .
this is the so-called oedipus complex of freud .
i 'm not saying i believe this , but this is the standard freudian view .
and then , as you grow up , the cortex develops , and inhibits these latent sexual urges towards your mother .
thank god , or you would all be sexually aroused when you saw your mother .
and then what happens is , there 's a blow to your head , damaging the cortex , allowing these latent sexual urges to emerge , flaming to the surface , and suddenly and inexplicably you find yourself being sexually aroused by your mother .
and you say , " my god , if this is my mom , how come i 'm being sexually turned on ?
she 's some other woman . she 's an impostor . " it 's the only interpretation that makes sense to your damaged brain .
this has never made much sense to me , this argument .
it 's very ingenious , as all freudian arguments are --
-- but didn 't make much sense because i have seen the same delusion , a patient having the same delusion , about his pet poodle .
he 'll say , " doctor , this is not fifi . it looks exactly like fifi , but it 's some other dog . " right ?
now , you try using the freudian explanation there .
you 'll start talking about the latent bestiality in all humans , or some such thing , which is quite absurd , of course .
now , what 's really going on ?
so , to explain this curious disorder , we look at the structure and functions of the normal visual pathways in the brain .
normally , visual signals come in , into the eyeballs , go to the visual areas in the brain .
there are , in fact , 30 areas in the back of your brain concerned with just vision , and after processing all that , the message goes to a small structure called the fusiform gyrus , where you perceive faces .
there are neurons there that are sensitive to faces .
you can call it the face area of the brain , right ?
i talked about that earlier .
now , when that area 's damaged , you lose the ability to see faces , right ?
but from that area , the message cascades into a structure called the amygdala in the limbic system , the emotional core of the brain , and that structure , called the amygdala , gauges the emotional significance of what you 're looking at .
is it prey ? is it predator ? is it mate ?
or is it something absolutely trivial , like a piece of lint , or a piece of chalk , or a -- i don 't want to point to that , but --
or a shoe , or something like that ? ok ?
which you can completely ignore .
so if the amygdala is excited , and this is something important , the messages then cascade into the autonomic nervous system .
your heart starts beating faster . you start sweating to dissipate the heat that you 're going to create from muscular exertion .
and that 's fortunate , because we can put two electrodes on your palm and measure the change in skin resistance produced by sweating .
so i can determine , when you 're looking at something , whether you 're excited or whether you 're aroused , or not , ok ?
and i 'll get to that in a minute .
so my idea was , when this chap looks at an object , when he looks at his -- any object for that matter , it goes to the visual areas and , however , and it 's processed in the fusiform gyrus , and you recognize it as a pea plant , or a table , or your mother , for that matter , ok ?
and then the message cascades into the amygdala , and then goes down the autonomic nervous system .
but maybe , in this chap , that wire that goes from the amygdala to the limbic system , the emotional core of the brain , is cut by the accident .
so because the fusiform is intact , the chap can still recognize his mother , and says , " oh yeah , this looks like my mother . " but because the wire is cut to the emotional centers , he says , " but how come , if it 's my mother , i don 't experience a warmth ? " or terror , as the case may be ? right ?
and therefore , he says , " how do i account for this inexplicable lack of emotions ?
this can 't be my mother .
it 's some strange woman pretending to be my mother . " how do you test this ?
well , what you do is , if you take any one of you here , and put you in front of a screen , and measure your galvanic skin response , and show pictures on the screen , i can measure how you sweat when you see an object , like a table or an umbrella . of course , you don 't sweat .
if i show you a picture of a lion , or a tiger , or a pinup , you start sweating , right ?
and , believe it or not , if i show you a picture of your mother --
i 'm talking about normal people -- you start sweating .
you don 't even have to be jewish .
now , what happens if you show this patient ?
you take the patient and show him pictures on the screen and measure his galvanic skin response .
tables and chairs and lint , nothing happens , as in normal people , but when you show him a picture of his mother , the galvanic skin response is flat .
there 's no emotional reaction to his mother , because that wire going from the visual areas to the emotional centers is cut .
so his vision is normal because the visual areas are normal , his emotions are normal -- he 'll laugh , he 'll cry , so on and so forth -- but the wire from vision to emotions is cut and therefore he has this delusion that his mother is an impostor .
it 's a lovely example of the sort of thing we do : take a bizarre , seemingly incomprehensible , neural psychiatric syndrome and say that the standard freudian view is wrong , that , in fact , you can come up with a precise explanation in terms of the known neural anatomy of the brain .
by the way , if this patient then goes , and mother phones from an adjacent room -- phones him -- and he picks up the phone , and he says , " wow , mom , how are you ? where are you ? " there 's no delusion through the phone .
then , she approaches him after an hour , he says , " who are you ?
you look just like my mother . " ok ?
the reason is there 's a separate pathway going from the hearing centers in the brain to the emotional centers , and that 's not been cut by the accident .
so this explains why through the phone he recognizes his mother , no problem .
when he sees her in person , he says it 's an impostor .
ok , how is all this complex circuitry set up in the brain ?
is it nature , genes , or is it nurture ?
and we approach this problem by considering another curious syndrome called phantom limb .
and you all know what a phantom limb is .
when an arm is amputated , or a leg is amputated , for gangrene , or you lose it in war -- for example , in the iraq war , it 's now a serious problem -- you continue to vividly feel the presence of that missing arm , and that 's called a phantom arm or a phantom leg .
in fact , you can get a phantom with almost any part of the body .
believe it or not , even with internal viscera .
i 've had patients with the uterus removed -- hysterectomy -- who have a phantom uterus , including phantom menstrual cramps at the appropriate time of the month .
and in fact , one student asked me the other day , " do they get phantom pms ? " a subject ripe for scientific enquiry , but we haven 't pursued that .
ok , now the next question is , what can you learn about phantom limbs by doing experiments ?
one of the things we 've found was , about half the patients with phantom limbs claim that they can move the phantom .
it 'll pat his brother on the shoulder , it 'll answer the phone when it rings , it 'll wave goodbye .
these are very compelling , vivid sensations .
the patient 's not delusional .
he knows that the arm is not there , but , nevertheless , it 's a compelling sensory experience for the patient .
but however , about half the patients , this doesn 't happen .
the phantom limb -- they 'll say , " but doctor , the phantom limb is paralyzed .
it 's fixed in a clenched spasm and it 's excruciatingly painful .
if only i could move it , maybe the pain will be relieved . " now , why would a phantom limb be paralyzed ?
it sounds like an oxymoron .
but when we were looking at the case sheets , what we found was , these people with the paralyzed phantom limbs , the original arm was paralyzed because of the peripheral nerve injury .
the actual nerve supplying the arm was severed , was cut , by say , a motorcycle accident .
so the patient had an actual arm , which is painful , in a sling for a few months or a year , and then , in a misguided attempt to get rid of the pain in the arm , the surgeon amputates the arm , and then you get a phantom arm with the same pains , right ?
and this is a serious clinical problem .
patients become depressed .
some of them are driven to suicide , ok ?
so , how do you treat this syndrome ?
now , why do you get a paralyzed phantom limb ?
when i looked at the case sheet , i found that they had an actual arm , and the nerves supplying the arm had been cut , and the actual arm had been paralyzed , and lying in a sling for several months before the amputation , and this pain then gets carried over into the phantom itself .
why does this happen ?
when the arm was intact , but paralyzed , the brain sends commands to the arm , the front of the brain , saying , " move , " but it 's getting visual feedback saying , " no . " move . no . move . no . move . no .
and this gets wired into the circuitry of the brain ,
and we call this learned paralysis , ok ?
the brain learns , because of this hebbian , associative link , that the mere command to move the arm creates a sensation of a paralyzed arm . and then , when you 've amputated the arm , this learned paralysis carries over into your body image and into your phantom , ok ?
now , how do you help these patients ?
how do you unlearn the learned paralysis , so you can relieve him of this excruciating , clenching spasm of the phantom arm ?
well , we said , what if you now send the command to the phantom , but give him visual feedback that it 's obeying his command , right ?
maybe you can relieve the phantom pain , the phantom cramp .
how do you do that ? well , virtual reality .
but that costs millions of dollars .
so , i hit on a way of doing this for three dollars , but don 't tell my funding agencies .
ok ? what you do is you create what i call a mirror box .
you have a cardboard box with a mirror in the middle , and then you put the phantom -- so my first patient , derek , came in .
he had his arm amputated 10 years ago .
he had a brachial avulsion , so the nerves were cut and the arm was paralyzed , lying in a sling for a year , and then the arm was amputated .
he had a phantom arm , excruciatingly painful , and he couldn 't move it .
it was a paralyzed phantom arm .
so he came there , and i gave him a mirror like that , in a box , which i call a mirror box , right ?
and the patient puts his phantom left arm , which is clenched and in spasm , on the left side of the mirror , and the normal hand on the right side of the mirror , and makes the same posture , the clenched posture , and looks inside the mirror . and what does he experience ?
he looks at the phantom being resurrected , because he 's looking at the reflection of the normal arm in the mirror , and it looks like this phantom has been resurrected .
" now , " i said , " now , look , wiggle your phantom -- your real fingers , or move your real fingers while looking in the mirror . " he 's going to get the visual impression that the phantom is moving , right ?
that 's obvious , but the astonishing thing is , the patient then says , " oh my god , my phantom is moving again , and the pain , the clenching spasm , is relieved . " and remember , my first patient who came in -- -- thank you .
my first patient came in , and he looked in the mirror , and i said , " look at your reflection of your phantom . " and he started giggling , he says , " i can see my phantom . " but he 's not stupid . he knows it 's not real .
he knows it 's a mirror reflection , but it 's a vivid sensory experience .
now , i said , " move your normal hand and phantom . " he said , " oh , i can 't move my phantom . you know that . it 's painful . " i said , " move your normal hand . " and he says , " oh my god , my phantom is moving again . i don 't believe this !
and my pain is being relieved . " ok ?
and then i said , " close your eyes . " he closes his eyes .
" and move your normal hand . " " oh , nothing . it 's clenched again . " " ok , open your eyes . " " oh my god , oh my god , it 's moving again ! " so , he was like a kid in a candy store .
so , i said , ok , this proves my theory about learned paralysis
and the critical role of visual input ,
but i 'm not going to get a nobel prize for getting somebody to move his phantom limb .
it 's a completely useless ability , if you think about it .
but then i started realizing , maybe other kinds of paralysis that you see in neurology , like stroke , focal dystonias -- there may be a learned component to this , which you can overcome with the simple device of using a mirror .
so , i said , " look , derek " -- well , first of all , the guy can 't just go around carrying a mirror to alleviate his pain -- i said , " look , derek , take it home and practice with it for a week or two .
maybe , after a period of practice , you can dispense with the mirror , unlearn the paralysis , and start moving your paralyzed arm , and then , relieve yourself of pain . " so he said ok , and he took it home .
i said , " look , it 's , after all , two dollars . take it home . " so , he took it home , and after two weeks , he phones me , and he said , " doctor , you 're not going to believe this . " i said , " what ? " he said , " it 's gone . " i said , " what 's gone ? " i thought maybe the mirror box was gone .
he said , " no , no , no , you know this phantom i 've had for the last 10 years ?
it 's disappeared . " and i said -- i got worried , i said , my god , i mean i 've changed this guy 's body image , what about human subjects , ethics and all of that ?
and i said , " derek , does this bother you ? " he said , " no , last three days , i 've not had a phantom arm and therefore no phantom elbow pain , no clenching , no phantom forearm pain , all those pains are gone away .
but the problem is i still have my phantom fingers dangling from the shoulder , and your box doesn 't reach . " " so , can you change the design and put it on my forehead , so i can , you know , do this and eliminate my phantom fingers ? " he thought i was some kind of magician .
now , why does this happen ?
it 's because the brain is faced with tremendous sensory conflict .
it 's getting messages from vision saying the phantom is back .
on the other hand , there 's no appropriate reception , muscle signals saying that there is no arm , right ?
and your motor command saying there is an arm , and , because of this conflict , the brain says , to hell with it , there is no phantom , there is no arm , right ?
it goes into a sort of denial -- negates the signals .
and when the arm disappears , the bonus is , the pain disappears because you can 't have disembodied pain floating out there , in space .
so , that 's the bonus .
now , this technique has been tried on dozens of patients by other groups in helsinki , so it may prove to be valuable as a treatment for phantom pain , and indeed , people have tried it for stroke rehabilitation .
stroke you normally think of as damage to the fibers , nothing you can do about it .
but , it turns out some component of stroke paralysis is also learned paralysis , and maybe that component can be overcome using mirrors .
this has also gone through clinical trials , helping lots and lots of patients .
ok , let me switch gears now to the third part of my talk , which is about another curious phenomenon called synesthesia .
this was discovered by francis galton in the nineteenth century .
he was a cousin of charles darwin .
he pointed out that certain people in the population , who are otherwise completely normal , had the following peculiarity : every time they see a number , it 's colored .
five is blue , seven is yellow , eight is chartreuse , nine is indigo , ok ?
bear in mind , these people are completely normal in other respects .
or c sharp -- sometimes , tones evoke color .
c sharp is blue , f sharp is green , another tone might be yellow , right ?
why does this happen ?
this is called synesthesia . galton called it synesthesia , a mingling of the senses .
in us , all the senses are distinct .
these people muddle up their senses .
why does this happen ?
one of the two aspects of this problem are very intriguing .
synesthesia runs in families , so galton said this is a hereditary basis , a genetic basis .
secondly , synesthesia is about -- and this is what gets me to my point about the main theme of this lecture , which is about creativity -- synesthesia is eight times more common among artists , poets , novelists and other creative people than in the general population .
why would that be ?
i 'm going to answer that question .
it 's never been answered before .
ok , what is synesthesia ? what causes it ?
well , there are many theories .
one theory is they 're just crazy .
now , that 's not really a scientific theory , so we can forget about it .
another theory is they are acid junkies and potheads , right ?
now , there may be some truth to this , because it 's much more common here in the bay area than in san diego .
ok . now , the third theory is that -- well , let 's ask ourselves what 's really going on in synesthesia . all right ?
so , we found that the color area and the number area are right next to each other in the brain , in the fusiform gyrus .
so we said , there 's some accidental cross wiring between color and numbers in the brain .
so , every time you see a number , you see a corresponding color , and that 's why you get synesthesia .
now remember -- why does this happen ?
why would there be crossed wires in some people ?
remember i said it runs in families ?
that gives you the clue . and that is , there is an abnormal gene , a mutation in the gene that causes this abnormal cross wiring .
in all of us , it turns out we are born with everything wired to everything else .
so , every brain region is wired to every other region , and these are trimmed down to create the characteristic modular architecture of the adult brain .
so , if there 's a gene causing this trimming and if that gene mutates , then you get deficient trimming between adjacent brain areas . and if it 's between number and color , you get number-color synesthesia .
if it 's between tone and color , you get tone-color synesthesia .
so far , so good .
now , what if this gene is expressed everywhere in the brain , so everything is cross-connected ?
well , think about what artists , novelists and poets have in common , the ability to engage in metaphorical thinking , linking seemingly unrelated ideas , such as , " it is the east , and juliet is the sun . " well , you don 't say , juliet is the sun , does that mean she 's a glowing ball of fire ?
i mean , schizophrenics do that , but it 's a different story , right ?
normal people say , she 's warm like the sun , she 's radiant like the sun , she 's nurturing like the sun .
instantly , you 've found the links .
now , if you assume that this greater cross wiring and concepts are also in different parts of the brain , then it 's going to create a greater propensity towards metaphorical thinking and creativity in people with synesthesia .
and , hence , the eight times more common incidence of synesthesia among poets , artists and novelists .
ok , it 's a very phrenological view of synesthesia .
the last demonstration -- can i take one minute ?
ok . i 'm going to show you that you 're all synesthetes , but you 're in denial about it .
here 's what i call martian alphabet . just like your alphabet , a is a , b is b , c is c. different shapes for different phonemes , right ?
here , you 've got martian alphabet .
one of them is kiki , one of them is buba .
which one is kiki and which one is buba ?
how many of you think that 's kiki and that 's buba ? raise your hands .
well , it 's one or two mutants .
how many of you think that 's buba , that 's kiki ? raise your hands .
ninety-nine percent of you .
now , none of you is a martian . how did you do that ?
it 's because you 're all doing a cross-model synesthetic abstraction , meaning you 're saying that that sharp inflection -- ki-ki , in your auditory cortex , the hair cells being excited -- kiki , mimics the visual inflection , sudden inflection of that jagged shape .
now , this is very important , because what it 's telling you is your brain is engaging in a primitive -- it 's just -- it looks like a silly illusion , but these photons in your eye are doing this shape , and hair cells in your ear are exciting the auditory pattern , but the brain is able to extract the common denominator .
it 's a primitive form of abstraction , and we now know this happens in the fusiform gyrus of the brain , because when that 's damaged , these people lose the ability to engage in buba kiki , but they also lose the ability to engage in metaphor .
if you ask this guy , what -- " all that glitters is not gold , " what does that mean ? " the patient says , " well , if it 's metallic and shiny , it doesn 't mean it 's gold . you have to measure its specific gravity , ok ? "
so , they completely miss the metaphorical meaning .
so , this area is about eight times the size in higher -- especially in humans -- as in lower primates .
something very interesting is going on here in the angular gyrus , because it 's the crossroads between hearing , vision and touch , and it became enormous in humans . and something very interesting is going on .
and i think it 's a basis of many uniquely human abilities like abstraction , metaphor and creativity .
all of these questions that philosophers have been studying for millennia , we scientists can begin to explore by doing brain imaging , and by studying patients and asking the right questions .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / martin _ rees _ asks _ is _ this _ our _ final _ century.html
speaking as both an astronomer and " a concerned member of the human race , " sir martin rees examines our planet and its future from a cosmic perspective . he urges action to prevent dark consequences from our scientific and technological development .
astronomy , climate change , complexity , cosmos , future , leadership , science , social change , technology , universe
42
martin rees asks : is this our final century ?
if you take 10,000 people at random , 9,999 have something in common : their interests in business lie on or near the earth 's surface .
the odd one out is an astronomer , and i am one of that strange breed .
my talk will be in two parts . i 'll talk first as an astronomer , and then as a worried member of the human race .
but let 's start off by remembering that darwin showed how we 're the outcome of four billion years of evolution .
and what we try to do in astronomy and cosmology is to go back before darwin 's simple beginning , to set our earth in a cosmic context .
and let me just run through a few slides .
this was the impact that happened last week on a comet .
if they 'd sent a nuke , it would have been rather more spectacular than what actually happened last monday .
so that 's another project for nasa .
that 's mars from the european mars express , and at new year .
this artist 's impression turned into reality when a parachute landed on titan , saturn 's giant moon .
it landed on the surface . this is pictures taken on the way down .
that looks like a coastline .
it is indeed , but the ocean is liquid methane -- the temperature minus 170 degrees centigrade .
if we go beyond our solar system , we 've learned that the stars aren 't twinkly points of light .
each one is like a sun with a retinue of planets orbiting around it . and we can see places where stars are forming , like the eagle nebula . we see stars dying .
in six billion years , the sun will look like that .
and some stars die spectacularly in a supernova explosion , leaving remnants like that .
on a still bigger scale , we see entire galaxies of stars .
we see entire ecosystems where gas is being recycled .
and to the cosmologist , these galaxies are just the atoms , as it were , of the large-scale universe .
this picture shows a patch of sky so small that it would take about 100 patches like it to cover the full moon in the sky .
through a small telescope , this would look quite blank ,
but you see here hundreds of little , faint smudges .
each is a galaxy , fully like ours or andromeda , which looks so small and faint because its light has taken 10 billion light-years to get to us .
the stars in those galaxies probably don 't have planets around them .
there 's scant chance of life there -- that 's because there 's been no time for the nuclear fusion in stars to make silicon and carbon and iron , the building blocks of planets and of life .
we believe that all of this emerged from a big bang -- a hot , dense state . so how did that amorphous big bang turn into our complex cosmos ?
i 'm going to show you a movie simulation 16 powers of 10 faster than real time , which shows a patch of the universe where the expansions have subtracted out .
but you see , as time goes on in gigayears at the bottom , you will see structures evolve as gravity feeds on small , dense irregularities , and structures develop .
and we 'll end up after 13 billion years with something looking rather like our own universe .
and we compare simulated universes like that -- i 'll show you a better simulation at the end of my talk -- with what we actually see in the sky .
well , we can trace things back to the earlier stages of the big bang , but we still don 't know what banged and why it banged .
that 's a challenge for 21st-century science .
if my research group had a logo , it would be this picture here : an ouroboros , where you see the micro-world on the left -- the world of the quantum -- and on the right the large-scale universe of planets , stars and galaxies .
we know our universes are united though -- links between left and right .
the everyday world is determined by atoms , how they stick together to make molecules .
stars are fueled by how the nuclei in those atoms react together .
and , as we 've learned in the last few years , galaxies are held together by the gravitational pull of so-called dark matter : particles in huge swarms , far smaller even than atomic nuclei .
but we 'd like to know the synthesis symbolized at the very top .
the micro-world of the quantum is understood .
on the right hand side , gravity holds sway . einstein explained that .
but the unfinished business for 21st-century science is to link together cosmos and micro-world with a unified theory -- symbolized , as it were , gastronomically at the top of that picture .
and until we have that synthesis , we won 't be able to understand the very beginning of our universe because when our universe was itself the size of an atom , quantum effects could shake everything .
and so we need a theory that unifies the very large and the very small , which we don 't yet have .
one idea , incidentally -- and i had this hazard sign to say i 'm going to speculate from now on -- is that our big bang was not the only one .
one idea is that our three-dimensional universe may be embedded in a high-dimensional space , just as you can imagine on these sheets of paper .
you can imagine ants on one of them thinking it 's a two-dimensional universe , not being aware of another population of ants on the other .
so there could be another universe just a millimeter away from ours , but we 're not aware of it because that millimeter is measured in some fourth spatial dimension , and we 're imprisoned in our three .
and so we believe that there may be a lot more to physical reality than what we 've normally called our universe -- the aftermath of our big bang . and here 's another picture .
bottom right depicts our universe , which on the horizon is not beyond that , but even that is just one bubble , as it were , in some vaster reality .
many people suspect that just as we 've gone from believing in one solar system to zillions of solar systems , one galaxy to many galaxies , we have to go to many big bangs from one big bang ,
perhaps these many big bangs displaying an immense variety of properties .
well , let 's go back to this picture .
there 's one challenge symbolized at the top , but there 's another challenge to science symbolized at the bottom .
you want to not only synthesize the very large and the very small , but we want to understand the very complex .
and the most complex things are ourselves , midway between atoms and stars .
we depend on stars to make the atoms we 're made of .
we depend on chemistry to determine our complex structure .
we clearly have to be large , compared to atoms , to have layer upon layer of complex structure .
we clearly have to be small , compared to stars and planets -- otherwise we 'd be crushed by gravity . and in fact , we are midway .
it would take as many human bodies to make up the sun as there are atoms in each of us .
the geometric mean of the mass of a proton and the mass of the sun is 50 kilograms , within a factor of two of the mass of each person here .
well , most of you anyway .
the science of complexity is probably the greatest challenge of all , greater than that of the very small on the left and the very large on the right .
and it 's this science , which is not only enlightening our understanding of the biological world , but also transforming our world faster than ever .
and more than that , it 's engendering new kinds of change .
and i now move on to the second part of my talk , and the book " our final century " was mentioned .
if i was not a self-effacing brit , i would mention the book myself , and i would add that it 's available in paperback .
and in america it was called " our final hour " because americans like instant gratification .
but my theme is that in this century , not only has science changed the world faster than ever , but in new and different ways .
targeted drugs , genetic modification , artificial intelligence , perhaps even implants into our brains , may change human beings themselves . and human beings , their physique and character , has not changed for thousands of years .
it may change this century .
it 's new in our history .
and the human impact on the global environment -- greenhouse warming , mass extinctions and so forth -- is unprecedented , too .
and so , this makes this coming century a challenge .
bio- and cybertechnologies are environmentally benign in that they offer marvelous prospects , while , nonetheless , reducing pressure on energy and resources .
but they will have a dark side .
in our interconnected world , novel technology could empower just one fanatic , or some weirdo with a mindset of those who now design computer viruses , to trigger some kind on disaster .
indeed , catastrophe could arise simply from technical misadventure -- error rather than terror .
and even a tiny probability of catastrophe is unacceptable when the downside could be of global consequence .
in fact , some years ago , bill joy wrote an article expressing tremendous concern about robots taking us over , etc .
i don 't go along with all that , but it 's interesting that he had a simple solution .
it was what he called " fine-grained relinquishment . "
he wanted to give up the dangerous kind of science and keep the good bits . now , that 's absurdly naive for two reasons .
first , any scientific discovery has benign consequences as well as dangerous ones .
and also , when a scientist makes a discovery , he or she normally has no clue what the applications are going to be .
and so what this means is that we have to accept the risks if we are going to enjoy the benefits of science .
we have to accept that there will be hazards .
and i think we have to go back to what happened in the post-war era , post-world war ii , when the nuclear scientists who 'd been involved in making the atomic bomb , in many cases were concerned that they should do all they could to alert the world to the dangers .
and they were inspired not by the young einstein , who did the great work in relativity , but by the old einstein , the icon of poster and t-shirt , who failed in his scientific efforts to unify the physical laws .
he was premature . but he was a moral compass -- an inspiration to scientists who were concerned with arms control .
and perhaps the greatest living person is someone i 'm privileged to know , joe rothblatt .
equally untidy office there , as you can see .
he 's 96 years old , and he founded the pugwash movement .
he persuaded einstein , as his last act , to sign the famous memorandum of bertrand russell .
and he sets an example of the concerned scientist .
and i think to harness science optimally , to choose which doors to open and which to leave closed , we need latter-day counterparts of people like joseph rothblatt .
we need not just campaigning physicists , but we need biologists , computer experts and environmentalists as well .
and i think academics and independent entrepreneurs have a special obligation because they have more freedom than those in government service , or company employees subject to commercial pressure .
i wrote my book , " our final century , " as a scientist , just a general scientist . but there 's one respect , i think , in which being a cosmologist offered a special perspective , and that 's that it offers an awareness of the immense future .
the stupendous time spans of the evolutionary past are now part of common culture -- outside the american bible belt , anyway -- but most people , even those who are familiar with evolution , aren 't mindful that even more time lies ahead .
the sun has been shining for four and a half billion years , but it 'll be another six billion years before its fuel runs out .
on that schematic picture , a sort of time-lapse picture , we 're halfway .
and it 'll be another six billion before that happens , and any remaining life on earth is vaporized .
there 's an unthinking tendency to imagine that humans will be there , experiencing the sun 's demise , but any life and intelligence that exists then will be as different from us as we are from bacteria .
the unfolding of intelligence and complexity still has immensely far to go , here on earth and probably far beyond .
so we are still at the beginning of the emergence of complexity in our earth and beyond .
if you represent the earth 's lifetime by a single year , say from january when it was made to december , the 21st-century would be a quarter of a second in june -- a tiny fraction of the year .
but even in this concertinaed cosmic perspective , our century is very , very special ,
the first when humans can change themselves and their home planet .
as i should have shown this earlier , it will not be humans who witness the end point of the sun ; it will be creatures as different from us as we are from bacteria .
when einstein died in 1955 , one striking tribute to his global status was this cartoon by herblock in the washington post .
the plaque reads , " albert einstein lived here . "
and i 'd like to end with a vignette , as it were , inspired by this image .
we 've been familiar for 40 years with this image : the fragile beauty of land , ocean and clouds , contrasted with the sterile moonscape on which the astronauts left their footprints .
but let 's suppose some aliens had been watching our pale blue dot in the cosmos from afar , not just for 40 years , but for the entire 4.5 billion-year history of our earth .
what would they have seen ?
over nearly all that immense time , earth 's appearance would have changed very gradually .
the only abrupt worldwide change would have been major asteroid impacts or volcanic super-eruptions .
apart from those brief traumas , nothing happens suddenly .
the continental landmasses drifted around .
ice cover waxed and waned .
successions of new species emerged , evolved and became extinct .
but in just a tiny sliver of the earth 's history , the last one-millionth part , a few thousand years , the patterns of vegetation altered much faster than before .
this signaled the start of agriculture .
change has accelerated as human populations rose .
then other things happened even more abruptly .
within just 50 years -- that 's one hundredth of one millionth of the earth 's age -- the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere started to rise , and ominously fast .
the planet became an intense emitter of radio waves -- the total output from all tv and cell phones and radar transmissions . and something else happened .
metallic objects -- albeit very small ones , a few tons at most -- escaped into orbit around the earth .
some journeyed to the moons and planets .
a race of advanced extraterrestrials watching our solar system from afar could confidently predict earth 's final doom in another six billion years .
but could they have predicted this unprecedented spike less than halfway through the earth 's life ?
these human-induced alterations occupying overall less than a millionth of the elapsed lifetime and seemingly occurring with runaway speed ?
if they continued their vigil , what might these hypothetical aliens witness in the next hundred years ?
will some spasm foreclose earth 's future ?
or will the biosphere stabilize ?
or will some of the metallic objects launched from the earth spawn new oases , a post-human life elsewhere ?
the science done by the young einstein will continue as long as our civilization , but for civilization to survive , we 'll need the wisdom of the old einstein -- humane , global and farseeing .
and whatever happens in this uniquely crucial century will resonate into the remote future and perhaps far beyond the earth , far beyond the earth as depicted here .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / susan _ savage _ rumbaugh _ on _ apes _ that _ write.html
savage-rumbaugh 's work with bonobo apes , which can understand spoken language and learn tasks by watching , forces the audience to rethink how much of what a species can do is determined by biology -- and how much by cultural exposure .
featured , animals , apes , biology , culture , education , evolution , genetics , intelligence , language
76
susan savage-rumbaugh : the real-life culture of bonobos
i work with a species called " bonobo . "
and i 'm happy most of the time , because i think this is the happiest species on the planet .
it 's kind of a well-kept secret .
this species lives only in the congo .
and they 're not in too many zoos , because of their sexual behavior .
their sexual behavior is too human-like for most of us to be comfortable with .
but --
actually , we have a lot to learn from them , because they 're a very egalitarian society and they 're a very empathetic society .
and sexual behavior is not confined to one aspect of their life that they sort of set aside .
it permeates their entire life .
and it 's used for communication .
and it 's used for conflict resolution .
and i think perhaps somewhere in our history we sort of , divided our lives up into lots of parts .
we divided our world up with lots of categories .
and so everything sort of has a place that it has to fit .
but i don 't think that we were that way initially .
there are many people who think that the animal world is hard-wired and that there 's something very , very special about man .
maybe it 's his ability to have causal thought .
maybe it 's something special in his brain that allows him to have language .
maybe it 's something special in his brain that allows him to make tools or to have mathematics .
well , i don 't know . there were tasmanians who were discovered around the 1600s and they had no fire .
they had no stone tools .
to our knowledge they had no music .
so when you compare them to the bonobo , the bonobo is a little hairier .
he doesn 't stand quite as upright .
but there are a lot of similarities .
and i think that as we look at culture , we kind of come to understand how we got to where we are .
and i don 't really think it 's in our biology ; i think we 've attributed it to our biology , but i don 't really think it 's there .
so what i want to do now is introduce you to a species called the bonobo .
this is kanzi .
he 's a bonobo .
right now , he 's in a forest in georgia .
his mother originally came from a forest in africa .
and she came to us when she was just at puberty , about six or seven years of age .
now this shows a bonobo on your right , and a chimpanzee on your left .
clearly , the chimpanzee has a little bit harder time of walking .
the bonobo , although shorter than us and their arms still longer , is more upright , just as we are .
this shows the bonobo compared to an australopithecine like lucy .
as you can see , there 's not a lot of difference between the way a bonobo walks and the way an early australopithecine would have walked .
as they turn toward us you 'll see that the pelvic area of early australopithecines is a little flatter and doesn 't have to rotate quite so much from side to side .
so the -- the bipedal gait is a little easier .
and now we see all four .
video : narrator : the wild bonobo lives in central africa , in the jungle encircled by the congo river .
canopied trees as tall as 40 meters , 130 feet , grow densely in the area .
it was a japanese scientist who first undertook serious field studies of the bonobo , almost three decades ago .
bonobos are built slightly smaller than the chimpanzee .
slim-bodied , bonobos are by nature very gentle creatures .
long and careful studies have reported many new findings on them .
one discovery was that wild bonobos often walk bidpedally .
what 's more , they are able to walk upright for long distances .
susan savage-rumbaugh : let 's go say hello to austin first and then go to the a frame .
ss : this is kanzi and i , in the forest .
none of the things you will see in this particular video are trained .
none of them are tricks .
they all happened to be captured on film spontaneously , by nhk of japan .
we have eight bonobos .
video : look at all this stuff that 's here for our campfire .
ss : an entire family at our research centre .
video : you going to help get some sticks ?
good .
we need more sticks , too .
i have a lighter in my pocket if you need one .
that 's a wasps ' nest .
you can get it out .
i hope i have a lighter .
you can use the lighter to start the fire .
ss : so kanzi is very interested in fire .
he doesn 't do it yet without a lighter , but i think if he saw someone do it , he might be able to do --
make a fire without a lighter .
he 's learning about how to keep a fire going .
he 's learning the uses for a fire , just by watching what we do with fire .
this is a smile on the face of a bonobo .
these are happy vocalizations .
video : you 're happy .
you 're very happy about this part .
you 've got to put some water on the fire . you see the water ?
good job .
ss : forgot to zip up the back half of his backpack .
but he likes to carry things from place to place .
video : austin , i hear you saying " austin . "
ss : he talks to other bonobos at the lab , long-distance , farther than we can hear .
this is his sister .
this is her first time to try to drive a golf cart .
video : goodbye .
ss : she 's got the pedals down , but not the wheel .
she switches from reverse to forward and she holds onto the wheel , rather than turns it .
like us , she knows that that individual in the mirror is her .
video : narrator : by raising bonobos in a culture that is both bonobo and human , and documenting their development across two decades , scientists are exploring how cultural forces may have operated during human evolution .
his name is nyota .
it means " star " in swahili .
panbanisha is trying to give nyota a haircut with a pair of scissors .
in the wild , the parent bonobo is known to groom its offspring .
here panbanisha uses scissors , instead of her hands , to groom nyota .
very impressive .
subtle maneuvering of the hands is required to perform delicate tasks like this .
nyota tries to imitate panbanisha by using the scissors himself .
realizing that nyota might get hurt , panbanisha , like any human mother , carefully tugs to get the scissors back .
he can now cut through tough animal hide .
ss : kanzi 's learned to make stone tools .
video : kanzi now makes his tools , just as our ancestors may have made them , two-and-a-half million years ago --
by holding the rocks in both hands , to strike one against the other .
he has learned that by using both hands and aiming his glancing blows , he can make much larger , sharper flakes .
kanzi chooses a flake he thinks is sharp enough .
the tough hide is difficult to cut , even with a knife .
the rock that kanzi is using is extremely hard and ideal for stone tool making , but difficult to handle , requiring great skill .
kanzi 's rock is from gona , ethiopia and is identical to that used by our african ancestors two-and-a-half million years ago .
these are the rocks kanzi used and these are the flakes he made .
the flat sharp edges are like knife blades .
compare them to the tools our ancestors used ; they bear a striking resemblance to kanzi 's .
panbanisha is longing to go for a walk in the woods .
it 's an easy , visible target of concern , and it should be , but there is more global warming pollution that comes from buildings than from cars and trucks .
cars and trucks are very significant , and we have the lowest standards in the world , and so we should address that . but it 's part of the puzzle .
other transportation efficiency is as important as cars and trucks !
renewables at the current levels of technological efficiency can make this much difference , and with what vinod , and john doerr , and others , many of you here -- a lot of people directly involved in this -- this wedge is going to grow much more rapidly than the current projection shows it .
carbon capture and sequestration -- that 's what ccs stands for -- is likely to become the killer app that will enable us to continue to use fossil fuels in a way that is safe .
not quite there yet .
ok . now , what can you do ? reduce emissions in your home .
most of these expenditures are also profitable .
insulation , better design , buy green electricity where you can .
i mentioned automobiles -- buy a hybrid . use light rail .
figure out some of the other options that are much better . it 's important .
be a green consumer . you have choices with everything you buy , between things that have a harsh effect or a much less harsh effect on the global climate crisis .
consider this . make a decision to live a carbon-neutral life . those of you who are good at branding , i 'd love to get your advice and help on how to say this in a way that connects with the most people .
it is easier than you think . it really is .
a lot of us in here have made that decision and it is really pretty easy .
it means : reduce your carbon dioxide emissions with the full range of choices that you make , and then purchase or acquire offsets for the remainder that you have not
completely reduced . and what it means is elaborated at climatecrisis.net. there is a carbon calculator . participant productions convened , with my active involvement , the leading software writers in the world on this arcane science of carbon calculation to construct a consumer-friendly carbon calculator .
you can very precisely calculate what your co2 emissions are , and then you will be given options to reduce .
and by the time the movie comes out in may , this will be updated to 2.0 and we will have click-through purchases of offsets .
next , consider making your business carbon-neutral . again , some of us have done that , and it 's not as hard as you think . integrate climate solutions into all of your innovations , whether you are from the technology , or entertainment , or design and architecture community .
invest sustainably . majora mentioned this .
listen , if you have invested money with managers who you compensate on the basis of their annual performance , don 't ever again complain about quarterly report ceo management .
over time , people do what you pay them to do . and if they judge how much they 're going to get paid on your capital that they 've invested , based on the short-term returns , you 're going to get short-term decisions .
a lot more to be said about that .
become a catalyst of change . teach others ; learn about it ; talk about it .
the movie comes out -- the movie is a movie version of the slideshow i gave two nights ago , except it 's a lot more entertaining . and it comes out in may .
many of you here have the opportunity to ensure that a lot of people see it .
consider sending somebody to nashville . pick well .
and i am personally going to train people to give this slideshow , re-purposed , with some of the personal stories obviously replaced with a generic approach ,
and -- it 's not just the slides , it 's what they mean . and it 's how they link together .
and so i 'm going to be conducting a course this summer for a group of people that are nominated by different folks to come and then give it , en masse , in communities all across the country ,
and we 're going to update the slideshow for all of them every single week to keep it right on the cutting edge .
working with larry lessig , it will be , somewhere in that process , posted with tools and limited-use copyrights , so that young people can remix it and do it in their own way .
where did anybody get the idea that you ought to stay arm 's length from politics ?
it doesn 't mean that if you are a republican that i 'm trying to convince you to be a democrat . we need republicans as well . this used to be a bipartisan issue , and i know that in this group it really is . become politically active .
make our democracy work the way it 's supposed to work .
support the idea of capping carbon dioxide emissions , global warming pollution , and trading it . here 's why : as long as the united states is out of the world system , it 's not a closed system .
once it becomes a closed system , with u.s. participation , then everybody who 's on a board of directors -- how many people here serve on the board of directors of a corporation ?
once it 's a closed system , you will have legal liability if you do not urge your ceo to get the maximum income from reducing and trading the carbon emissions that can be avoided . the market will work to solve this problem if we can accomplish this .
help with the mass persuasion campaign that will start this spring .
we have to change the minds of the american people . because presently the politicians do not have permission to do what needs to be done .
and in our modern country , the role of logic and reason no longer includes mediating between wealth and power the way it once did .
it 's now repetition of short , hot-button , 30-second , 28-second television ads .
we have to buy a lot of those ads .
let 's rebrand global warming , as many of you have suggested .
i like " climate crisis " instead of " climate collapse , " but again , those of you who are good at branding , i need your help on this .
somebody said the test we 're facing now , a scientist told me , is whether the combination of an opposable thumb and a neocortex is a viable combination .
that 's really true . i said the other night , and i 'll repeat now : this is not a political issue .
again , the republicans here , this shouldn 't be partisan .
you have more influence than some of us who are democrats do .
this is an opportunity . not just this , but connected to the ideas that are here , to bring more coherence to them .
we are one .
thank you very much , i appreciate it .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / carl _ safina _ the _ oil _ spill _ s _ unseen _ culprits _ victims.html
the gulf oil spill dwarfs comprehension , but we know this much : it 's bad . carl safina scrapes out the facts in this blood-boiling cross-examination , arguing that the consequences will stretch far beyond the gulf -- and many so-called solutions are making the situation worse .
disaster relief , energy , environment , oceans , oil , pollution
914
carl safina : the oil spill 's unseen culprits , victims
this is the ocean as i used to know it .
and i find that since i 've been in the gulf a couple of times , i really kind of am traumatized
because whenever i look at the ocean now , no matter where i am , even where i know none of the oil has gone , i sort of see slicks ,
and i 'm finding that i 'm very much haunted by it .
but what i want to talk to you about today is a lot of things that try to put all of this in context , not just about the oil eruption , but what it means and why it has happened .
first , just a little bit about me .
i 'm basically just a guy that likes to go fishing
ever since i was a little kid ,
and because i did , i wound up studying sea birds to try to stay in the coastal habitats that i so loved .
and now i mainly write books about how the ocean is changing ,
and the ocean is certainly changing very rapidly .
now we saw this kind of graphic earlier on , that we really live on a hard marble that has just a slight bit of wetness to it .
it 's like you dipped a marble in water .
and the same thing with the atmosphere : if you took all the atmosphere and rolled it up in a ball , you would get that little sphere of gas on the right .
so we live on the most fragile , little soap bubble you can imagine ,
a very sacred soap bubble , but one that is very , very easy to affect .
and all the burning of oil and coal and gas , all the fossil fuels , have changed the atmosphere greatly .
carbon dioxide level has gone up and up and up .
we 're warming the climate .
so the blowout in the gulf is just a little piece of a much larger problem that we have with the energy that we use to run civilization .
beyond warming , we have the problem of the oceans getting more acidified -- and already measurably so , and already affecting animals .
now in the laboratory , if you take a clam and you put it in the ph that is -- not 8.1 , which is the normal ph of seawater -- but 7.5 , it dissolves in about three days .
if you take a sea urchin larva from 8.1 , put it in a ph of 7.7 -- not a huge change -- it becomes deformed and dies .
and already , commercial oyster larvae are dying at large scales in some places .
coral reefs are growing slower in some places because of this problem .
so this really matters .
now , let 's take a little tour around the gulf a little bit .
one of the things that really impresses me about the people in the gulf : they are really , really aquatic people .
and they can handle water .
they can handle a hurricane that comes and goes . when the water goes down , they know what to do .
but when it 's something other than water , and their water habitat changes , they don 't have many options .
in fact , those entire communities really don 't have many options .
they don 't have another thing they can do .
they can 't go and work in the local hotel business because there isn 't one in their community .
if you go to the gulf and you look around , you do see a lot of oil .
you see a lot of oil on the ocean .
you see a lot of oil on the shoreline .
if you go to the site of the blowout , it looks pretty unbelievable .
it looks like you just emptied the oil pan in your car , and you just dumped it in the ocean .
and one of the really most incredible things , i think , is that there 's nobody out there trying to collect it at the site where it is densest .
parts of the ocean there look just absolutely apocalyptic .
you go in along the shore , you can find it everywhere .
it 's really messy .
if you go to the places where it 's just arriving , like the eastern part of the gulf , in alabama , there 's still people using the beach while there are people cleaning up the beach .
and they have a very strange way of cleaning up the beach . they 're not allowed to put more than 10 pounds of sand in a 50-gallon plastic bag .
they have thousands and thousands of plastic bags .
i don 't know what they 're going to do with all that stuff .
meanwhile , there are still people trying to use the beach .
they don 't see the little , tiny sign that says : " stay out of the water . "
their kids are in the water ; they 're getting tar all over their clothes and their sandals . it 's a mess .
if you go to the place where the oil has been a while , it 's an even bigger mess .
and there 's basically nobody there anymore , a few people trying to keep using it .
you see people who are really shell-shocked .
they are very hardworking people .
all they know about life is they get up in the morning , and if their engine starts , they go to work .
they always felt that they could rely on the assurances that nature brought them through the ecosystem of the gulf .
they 're finding that their world is really collapsing .
and so you can see , literally , signs of their shock , signs of their outrage , signs of their anger , and signs of their grief .
these are the things that you can see .
there 's a lot you can 't see , also , underwater .
what 's going on underwater ?
well , some people say there are oil plumes .
some people say there are not oil plumes .
and congressman markey asks , you know , " is it going to take a submarine ride to see if there are really oil plumes ? "
but i couldn 't take a submarine ride -- especially between the time i knew i was coming here and today -- so i had to do a little experiment myself to see if there was oil in the gulf of mexico .
so this is the gulf of mexico , sparkling place full of fish .
i created a little oil spill in the gulf of mexico . and i learned -- in fact , i confirmed -- the hypothesis that oil and water don 't mix until you add a dispersant ,
and then they start mixing .
and you add a little energy from the wind and the waves , and you get a big mess ,
a big mess that you can 't possibly clean , you can 't touch , you can 't extract and , i think most importantly -- this is what i think -- you can 't see it .
i think it 's being hidden on purpose .
now this is such a catastrophe and such a mess , that lots of stuff is leaking out on the edges of the information stream .
but as many people have said , there 's a large attempt to suppress what 's going on .
personally , i think that the dispersants are a major strategy to hide the body , because we put the murderer in charge of the crime scene .
but you can see it .
you can see where the oil is concentrated at the surface ,
and then it is attacked , because they don 't want the evidence , in my opinion .
okay .
we heard that bacteria eat oil ?
so do sea turtles .
when it breaks up , it has a long way to go before it gets down to bacteria .
turtles eat it . it gets in the gills of fish . these guys have to swim around through it .
i heard the most incredible story today when i was on the train coming here .
a writer named ted williams called me , and he was asking me a couple of questions about what i saw , because he 's writing an article for audubon magazine .
he said that he had been in the gulf a little while ago -- like about a week ago -- and a guy who had been a recreational fishing guide took him out to show him what 's going on .
that guide 's entire calendar year is canceled bookings .
he has no bookings left .
everybody wanted their deposit back . everybody is fleeing .
that 's the story of thousands of people .
but he told ted that on the last day he went out , a bottlenose dolphin suddenly appeared next to the boat ,
and it was splattering oil out its blowhole .
and he moved away because it was his last fishing trip , and he knew that the dolphins scare fish .
so he moved away from it , turned around a few minutes later , it was right next to the side of the boat again .
he said that in 30 years of fishing he had never seen a dolphin do that .
and he felt that --
he felt that it was coming to ask for help . sorry .
now , in the exxon valdez spill , about 30 percent of the killer whales died in the first few months .
their numbers have never recovered .
so the recovery rate of all this stuff is going to be variable .
it 's going to take longer for some things . and some things , i think , will probably come back a little faster .
the other thing about the gulf that is important is that there are a lot of animals that concentrate in the gulf at certain parts of the year .
so the gulf is a really important piece of water -- more important than a similar volume of water in the open atlantic ocean .
these tuna swim the entire ocean .
they get in the gulf stream . they go all the way to europe .
when it comes time to spawn , they come inside ,
and these two tuna that were tagged ,
you can see them on the spawning grounds very much right in the area of the slick .
they 're probably having , at the very least , a catastrophic spawning season this year .
i 'm hoping that maybe the adults are avoiding that dirty water .
they don 't usually like to go into water that is very cloudy anyway .
but these are really high-performance athletic animals .
i don 't know what this kind of stuff will do in their gills .
i don 't know if it 'll affect the adults .
if it 's not , it 's certainly affecting their eggs and larvae , i would certainly think .
but if you look at that graph that goes down and down and down ,
that 's what we 've done to this species through overfishing over many decades .
so while the oil spill , the leak , the eruption , is a catastrophe , i think it 's important to keep in mind that we 've done a lot to affect what 's in the ocean for a very , very long time .
it 's not like we 're starting with something that 's been okay .
we 're starting with something that 's had a lot of stresses and a lot of problems to begin with .
if you look around at the birds ,
there are a lot of birds in the gulf that concentrate in the gulf at certain times of the year , but then leave .
and they populate much larger areas .
so for instance , most of the birds in this picture are migratory birds .
they were all on the gulf in may , while oil was starting to come ashore in certain places .
down on the lower left there are ruddy turnstones and sanderlings .
they breed in the high arctic , and they winter down in southern south america .
but they concentrate in the gulf and then fan out all across the arctic .
i saw birds that breed in greenland in the gulf ,
so this is a hemispheric issue .
the economic effects go at least nationally in many ways . the biological effects are certainly hemispheric .
i think that this is one of the most absolutely mind-boggling examples of total unpreparedness that i can even think of .
even when the japanese bombed pearl harbor , at least they shot back .
and we just seem to be unable to figure out what to do .
there was nothing ready ,
and , you know , as we can see by what they 're doing . mainly what they 're doing is booms and dispersants .
the booms are absolutely not made for open water .
they don 't even attempt to corral the oil where it is most concentrated .
they get near shore . look at these two boats .
that one on the right is called fishing fool .
and i think , you know , that 's a great name for boats that think that they 're going to do anything to make a dent in this by dragging a boom between them when there are literally hundreds of thousands of square miles in the gulf right now with oil at the surface .
the dispersants make the oil go right under the booms .
the booms are only about 13 inches in diameter .
so it 's just absolutely crazy .
here are shrimp boats employed .
there are hundreds of shrimp boats employed to drag booms instead of nets .
here they are working .
you can see easily that all the oily water just goes over the back of the boom .
all they 're doing is stirring it .
it 's just ridiculous .
also , for all the shoreline that has booms -- hundreds and hundreds of miles of shoreline -- all of the shoreline that has booms , there 's adjacent shoreline that doesn 't have any booms .
there is ample opportunity for oil and dirty water to get in behind them .
and that lower photo , that 's a bird colony that has been boomed .
everybody 's trying to protect the bird colonies there .
well , as an ornithologist , i can tell you that birds fly , and that -- and that booming a bird colony doesn 't do it ; it doesn 't do it .
these birds make a living by diving into the water .
in fact , really what i think they should do , if anything -- they 're trying so hard to protect those nests -- actually , if they destroyed every single nest some of the birds would leave , and that would be better for them this year .
as far as cleaning them , i don 't mean to cast any aspersion on people cleaning birds .
it 's really , really important that we express our compassion .
i think that 's the most important thing that people have , is compassion .
it 's really important to get those images and to show it .
but really , where are those birds going to get released to ?
it 's like taking somebody out of a burning building , treating them for smoke inhalation and sending them back into the building , because the oil is still gushing .
i refuse to acknowledge this as anything like an accident .
i think that this is the result of gross negligence .
not just b.p .
b.p. operated very sloppily and very recklessly because they could .
and they were allowed to do so because of the absolute failure of oversight of the government that 's supposed to be our government , protecting us .
it turns out that -- you see this sign on almost every commercial vessel in the united states -- you know , if you spilled a couple of gallons of oil , you would be in big trouble .
and you have to really wonder who are the laws made for , and who has gotten above the laws .
now there are things that we can do in the future .
we could have the kinds of equipment that we would really need .
it would not take an awful lot to anticipate that after making 30,000 holes in the sea floor of the gulf of mexico looking for oil , oil might start coming out of one of them .
and you 'd have some idea of what to do .
that 's certainly one of the things we need to do .
but i think we have to understand where this leak really started from .
it really started from the destruction of the idea that the government is there because it 's our government , meant to protect the larger public interest .
so i think that the oil blowout , the bank bailout , the mortgage crisis and all these things are absolutely symptoms of the same cause .
we still seem to understand that at least we need the police to protect us from a few bad people .
and even though the police can be a little annoying at times -- giving us tickets and stuff like that -- nobody says that we should just get rid of them .
but in the entire rest of government right now and for the last at least 30 years , there has been a culture of deregulation that is caused directly by the people who we need to be protected from , buying the government out from under us .
now this has been a problem for a very , very long time .
you can see that corporations were illegal at the founding of america ,
and even thomas jefferson complained that they were already bidding defiance to the laws of our country .
okay , people who say they 're conservative , if they really wanted to be really conservative and really patriotic , they would tell these corporations to go to hell .
that 's what it would really mean to be conservative .
so what we really need to do is regain the idea that it 's our government safeguarding our interests
and regain a sense of unity and common cause in our country that really has been lost .
i think there are signs of hope .
we seem to be waking up a little bit .
the glass-steagall act -- which was really to protect us from the kind of thing that caused the recession to happen , and the bank meltdown and all that stuff that required the bailouts -- that was put in effect in 1933 , was systematically destroyed .
back in place ,
but the lobbyists are already there trying to weaken the regulations after the legislation has just passed .
so it 's a continued fight .
it 's a historic moment right now .
we 're either going to have an absolutely unmitigated catastrophe of this oil leak in the gulf , or we will make the moment we need out of this , as many people have noted today .
there 's certainly a common theme about needing to make the moment out of this .
we 've been through this before with other ways of offshore drilling .
the first offshore wells were called whales .
the first offshore drills were called harpoons .
we emptied the ocean of the whales at that time .
now are we stuck with this ?
ever since we lived in caves , every time we wanted any energy , we lit something on fire , and that is still what we 're doing . we 're still lighting something on fire every time we want energy .
and people say we can 't have clean energy because it 's too expensive .
who says it 's too expensive ?
people who sell us fossil fuels .
we 've been here before with energy , and people saying the economy cannot withstand a switch , because the cheapest energy was slavery .
energy is always a moral issue .
it 's an issue that is moral right now .
it 's a matter of right and wrong .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / sebastian _ seung.html
sebastian seung is mapping a massively ambitious new model of the brain that focuses on the connections between each neuron . he calls it our " connectome , " and it 's as individual as our genome -- and understanding it could open a new way to understand our brains and our minds .
brain , mind , science , technology
967
sebastian seung : i am my connectome
we live in in a remarkable time , the age of genomics .
your genome is the entire sequence of your dna .
your sequence and mine are slightly different .
that 's why we look different .
i 've got brown eyes ;
you might have blue or gray .
but it 's not just skin-deep .
the headlines tell us that genes can give us scary diseases , maybe even shape our personality , or give us mental disorders .
our genes seem to have awesome power over our destinies .
and yet , i would like to think that i am more than my genes .
what do you guys think ?
are you more than your genes ?
yes ?
i think some people agree with me .
i think we should make a statement .
i think we should say it all together .
all right : " i 'm more than my genes " -- all together .
everybody : i am more than my genes .
sebastian seung : what am i ?
i am my connectome .
now , since you guys are really great , maybe you can humor me and say this all together too .
right . all together now .
everybody : i am my connectome .
ss : that sounded great .
you know , you guys are so great , you don 't even know what a connectome is , and you 're willing to play along with me .
i could just go home now .
well , so far only one connectome is known , that of this tiny worm .
its modest nervous system consists of just 300 neurons .
and in the 1970s and ' 80s , a team of scientists mapped all 7,000 connections between the neurons .
in this diagram , every node is a neuron , and every line is a connection .
this is the connectome of the worm c. elegans .
your connectome is far more complex than this because your brain contains 100 billion neurons and 10,000 times as many connections .
there 's a diagram like this for your brain , but there 's no way it would fit on this slide .
your connectome contains one million times more connections than your genome has letters .
that 's a lot of information .
what 's in that information ?
we don 't know for sure , but there are theories .
since the 19th century , neuroscientists have speculated that maybe your memories -- the information that makes you , you -- maybe your memories are stored in the connections between your brain 's neurons .
and perhaps other aspects of your personal identity -- maybe your personality and your intellect -- maybe they 're also encoded in the connections between your neurons .
and so now you can see why i proposed this hypothesis : i am my connectome .
i didn 't ask you to chant it because it 's true ; i just want you to remember it .
and in fact , we don 't know if this hypothesis is correct , because we have never had technologies powerful enough to test it .
finding that worm connectome took over a dozen years of tedious labor .
and to find the connectomes of brains more like our own , we need more sophisticated technologies , that are automated , that will speed up the process of finding connectomes .
and in the next few minutes , i 'll tell you about some of these technologies , which are currently under development in my lab and the labs of my collaborators .
now you 've probably seen pictures of neurons before .
you can recognize them instantly by their fantastic shapes .
they extend long and delicate branches , and in short , they look like trees .
but this is just a single neuron .
in order to find connectomes , we have to see all the neurons at the same time .
so let 's meet bobby kasthuri , who works in the laboratory of jeff lichtman at harvard university .
bobby is holding fantastically thin slices of a mouse brain .
and we 're zooming in by a factor of 100,000 times to obtain the resolution , so that we can see the branches of neurons all at the same time .
except , you still may not really recognize them , and that 's because we have to work in three dimensions .
if we take many images of many slices of the brain and stack them up , we get a three-dimensional image .
and still , you may not see the branches .
so we start at the top , and we color in the cross-section of one branch in red ,
and we do that for the next slice and for the next slice .
and we keep on doing that , slice after slice .
if we continue through the entire stack , we can reconstruct the three-dimensional shape of a small fragment of a branch of a neuron .
and we can do that for another neuron in green .
and you can see that the green neuron touches the red neuron at two locations , and these are what are called synapses .
let 's zoom in on one synapse ,
and keep your eyes on the interior of the green neuron .
you should see small circles --
these are called vesicles .
they contain a molecule know as a neurotransmitter .
and so when the green neuron wants to communicate , it wants to send a message to the red neuron , it spits out neurotransmitter .
at the synapse , the two neurons are said to be connected like two friends talking on the telephone .
so you see how to find a synapse .
how can we find an entire connectome ?
well , we take this three-dimensional stack of images and treat it as a gigantic three-dimensional coloring book .
we color every neuron in , in a different color , and then we look through all of the images , find the synapses and note the colors of the two neurons involved in each synapse .
if we can do that throughout all the images , we could find a connectome .
now , at this point , you 've learned the basics of neurons and synapses .
and so i think we 're ready to tackle one of the most important questions in neuroscience : how are the brains of men and women different ?
according to this self-help book , guys brains are like waffles ; they keep their lives compartmentalized in boxes .
girls ' brains are like spaghetti ; everything in their life is connected to everything else .
you guys are laughing , but you know , this book changed my life .
but seriously , what 's wrong with this ?
you already know enough to tell me -- what 's wrong with this statement ?
it doesn 't matter whether you 're a guy or girl , everyone 's brains are like spaghetti .
or maybe really , really fine capellini with branches .
just as one strand of spaghetti contacts many other strands on your plate , one neuron touches many other neurons through their entangled branches .
one neuron can be connected to so many other neurons , because there can be synapses at these points of contact .
by now , you might have sort of lost perspective on how large this cube of brain tissue actually is .
and so let 's do a series of comparisons to show you .
i assure you , this is very tiny . it 's just six microns on a side .
so , here 's how it stacks up against an entire neuron .
and you can tell that , really , only the smallest fragments of branches are contained inside this cube .
and a neuron , well , that 's smaller than brain .
and that 's just a mouse brain --
it 's a lot smaller than a human brain .
so when show my friends this , sometimes they 've told me , " you know , sebastian , you should just give up .
neuroscience is hopeless . "
because if you look at a brain with your naked eye , you don 't really see how complex it is , but when you use a microscope , finally the hidden complexity is revealed .
in the 17th century , the mathematician and philosopher , blaise pascal , wrote of his dread of the infinite , his feeling of insignificance at contemplating the vast reaches of outer space .
and , as a scientist , i 'm not supposed to talk about my feelings --
too much information , professor .
but may i ?
i feel curiosity , and i feel wonder , but at times i have also felt despair .
why did i choose to study this organ that is so awesome in its complexity that it might well be infinite ?
it 's absurd .
how could we even dare to think that we might ever understand this ?
and yet , i persist in this quixotic endeavor .
and indeed , these days i harbor new hopes .
someday , a fleet of microscopes will capture every neuron and every synapse in a vast database of images .
and some day , artificially intelligent supercomputers will analyze the images without human assistance to summarize them in a connectome .
i do not know , but i hope that i will live to see that day ,
because finding an entire human connectome is one of the greatest technological challenges of all time .
it will take the work of generations to succeed .
at the present time , my collaborators and i , what we 're aiming for is much more modest -- just to find partial connectomes of tiny chunks of mouse and human brain .
but even that will be enough for the first tests of this hypothesis that i am my connectome .
for now , let me try to convince you of the plausibility of this hypothesis , that it 's actually worth taking seriously .
as you grow during childhood and age during adulthood , your personal identity changes slowly .
likewise , every connectome changes over time .
what kinds of changes happen ?
well , neurons , like trees , can grow new branches , and they can lose old ones .
synapses can be created , and they can be eliminated .
and synapses can grow larger , and they can grow smaller .
second question : what causes these changes ?
well , it 's true .
to some extent , they are programmed by your genes .
but that 's not the whole story , because there are signals , electrical signals , that travel along the branches of neurons and chemical signals that jump across from branch to branch .
these signals are called neural activity .
and there 's a lot of evidence that neural activity is encoding our thoughts , feelings and perceptions , our mental experiences .
and there 's a lot of evidence that neural activity can cause your connections to change .
and if you put those two facts together , it means that your experiences can change your connectome .
and that 's why every connectome is unique , even those of genetically identical twins .
the connectome is where nature meets nurture .
and it might true that just the mere act of thinking can change your connectome -- an idea that you may find empowering .
what 's in this picture ?
a cool and refreshing stream of water , you say .
what else is in this picture ?
do not forget that groove in the earth called the stream bed .
without it , the water would not know in which direction to flow .
and with the stream , i would like to propose a metaphor for the relationship between neural activity and connectivity .
neural activity is constantly changing .
it 's like the water of the stream ; it never sits still .
the connections of the brain 's neural network determines the pathways along which neural activity flows .
and so the connectome is like bed of the stream ;
but the metaphor is richer than that ,
because it 's true that the stream bed guides the flow of the water , but over long timescales , the water also reshapes the bed of the stream .
and as i told you just now , neural activity can change the connectome .
and if you 'll allow me to ascend to metaphorical heights , i will remind you that neural activity is the physical basis -- or so neuroscientists think -- of thoughts , feelings and perceptions .
and so we might even speak of the stream of consciousness .
neural activity is its water , and the connectome is its bed .
so let 's return from the heights of metaphor and return to science .
suppose our technologies for finding connectomes actually work .
how will we go about testing the hypothesis " i am my connectome ? "
well , i propose a direct test .
let us attempt to read out memories from connectomes .
consider the memory of long temporal sequences of movements , like a pianist playing a beethoven sonata .
according to a theory that dates back to the 19th century , such memories are stored as chains of synaptic connections inside your brain .
because , if the first neurons in the chain are activated , through their synapses they send messages to the second neurons , which are activated , and so on down the line , like a chain of falling dominoes .
and this sequence of neural activation is hypothesized to be the neural basis of those sequence of movements .
so one way of trying to test the theory is to look for such chains inside connectomes .
but it won 't be easy , because they 're not going to look like this .
they 're going to be scrambled up .
so we 'll have to use our computers to try to unscramble the chain .
and if we can do that , the sequence of the neurons we recover from that unscrambling will be a prediction of the pattern of neural activity that is replayed in the brain during memory recall .
and if that were successful , that would be the first example of reading a memory from a connectome .
what a mess --
have you ever tried to wire up a system as complex as this ?
i hope not .
but if you have , you know it 's very easy to make a mistake .
the branches of neurons are like the wires of the brain .
can anyone guess : what 's the total length of wires in your brain ?
i 'll give you a hint . it 's a big number .
i estimate , millions of miles ,
all packed in your skull .
and if you appreciate that number , you can easily see there is huge potential for mis-wiring of the brain .
and indeed , the popular press loves headlines like , " anorexic brains are wired differently , " or " autistic brains are wired differently . "
these are plausible claims , but in truth , we can 't see the brain 's wiring clearly enough to tell if these are really true .
and so the technologies for seeing connectomes will allow us to finally read mis-wiring of the brain , to see mental disorders in connectomes .
sometimes the best way to test a hypothesis is to consider its most extreme implication .
philosophers know this game very well .
if you believe that i am my connectome , i think you must also accept the idea that death is the destruction of your connectome .
i mention this because there are prophets today who claim that technology will fundamentally alter the human condition and perhaps even transform the human species .
one of their most cherished dreams is to cheat death by that practice known as cryonics .
if you pay 100,000 dollars , you can arrange to have your body frozen after death and stored in liquid nitrogen in one of these tanks in an arizona warehouse , awaiting a future civilization that is advanced to resurrect you .
should we ridicule the modern seekers of immortality , calling them fools ?
or will they someday chuckle over our graves ?
i don 't know --
i prefer to test their beliefs , scientifically .
i propose that we attempt to find a connectome of a frozen brain .
we know that damage to the brain occurs after death and during freezing .
the question is : has that damage erased the connectome ?
if it has , there is no way that any future civilization will be able to recover the memories of these frozen brains .
resurrection might succeed for the body , but not for the mind .
on the other hand , if the connectome is still intact , we cannot ridicule the claims of cryonics so easily .
i 've described a quest that begins in the world of the very small , and propels us to the world of the far future .
connectomes will mark a turning point in human history .
as we evolved from our ape-like ancestors on the african savanna , what distinguished us was our larger brains .
we have used our brains to fashion ever more amazing technologies .
eventually , these technologies will become so powerful that we will use them to know ourselves by deconstructing and reconstructing our own brains .
i believe that this voyage of self-discovery is not just for scientists , but for all of us .
and i 'm grateful for the opportunity to share this voyage with you today .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / toys _ from _ the _ future.html
the inventables guys , zach kaplan and keith schacht , demo some amazing new materials and how we might use them . look for squishy magnets , odor-detecting ink , " dry " liquid and a very surprising 10-foot pole .
business , creativity , design , industrial design , invention , materials , science , smell , technology , toy
385
zach kaplan and keith schacht demo toys from the future
zach kaplan : keith and i lead a research team .
we investigate materials and technologies that have unexpected properties . over the last three years , we found over 200 of these things , and so we looked back into our library and selected six we thought would be most surprising for ted .
of these six , the first one that we 're going to talk about is in the black envelope you 're holding .
it comes from a company in japan called geltech . now go ahead and open it up .
keith schacht : now be sure and take the two pieces apart .
what 's unexpected about this is that it 's soft , but it 's also a strong magnet .
zach and i have always been fascinated observing unexpected things like this .
we spent a long time thinking about why this is , and it 's just recently that we realized : it 's when we see something unexpected , it changes our understanding of the way things work .
as you 're seeing this gel magnet for the first time , if you assume that all magnets had to be hard , then seeing this surprised you and it changed your understanding of the way magnets could work .
zk : now , it 's important to understand what the unexpected properties are .
but to really think about the implications of what this makes possible , we found that it helps to think about how it could be applied in the world .
so , a first idea is to use it on cabinet doors .
if you line the sides of the cabinets using the gel material -- if a cabinet slams shut it wouldn 't make a loud noise , and in addition the magnets would draw the cabinets closed .
imagine taking the same material , but putting it on the bottom of a sneaker .
you know , this way you could go to the container store and buy one of those metal sheets that they hang on the back of your door , in your closet , and you could literally stick your shoes up instead of using a shelf .
for me , i really love this idea .
if you come to my apartment and see my closet , i 'm sure you 'd figure out why : it 's a mess .
ks : seeing the unexpected properties and then seeing a couple of applications -- it helps you see why this is significant , what the potential is .
but we 've found that the way we present our ideas it makes a big difference .
zk : it was like six months ago that keith and i were out in l.a. , and we were at starbucks having coffee with roman coppola .
he works on mostly music videos and commercials with his company , the directors bureau . as we were talking , roman told us that he 's kind of an inventor on the side .
and we were showing him the same gel magnet that you 're holding in your hand -- and you know , we shared the same ideas . and you could see it in his face :
roman starts to get really excited and he whips out this manila folder ; he opens it up and keith and i look in , and he starts showing us concepts that he 's been working on .
these things just get him really excited . and so we 're looking at these concepts , and we were just like , whoa , this guy 's good .
because the way that he presented the concept -- his approach was totally different than ours . he sold it to you as if it was for sale right now .
when we were going in the car back to the airport , we were thinking : why was this so powerful ?
and as we thought about it more , we realized that it let you fill in all the details about the experience , just as if you saw it on tv . so , for ted we decided to take our favorite idea for the gel magnet and work with roman and his team at the directors bureau to create a commercial for a product from the future .
narrator : do you have a need for speed ?
inventables water adventures dares you to launch yourself on a magnetically-levitating board down a waterslide so fast , so tall , that when you hit the bottom , it uses brakes to stop .
aqua rocket : coming this summer .
ks : now , we showed the concept to a few people before this , and they asked us , when 's it coming out ?
so i just wanted to let you know , it 's not actually coming out , just the concept is .
zk : so now , when we dream up these concepts , it 's important for us to make sure that they work from a technical standpoint .
so i just want to quickly explain how this would work .
this is the magnetically-levitating board that they mentioned in the commercial .
the gel that you 're holding would be lining the bottom of the board .
now this is important for two reasons .
one : the soft properties of the magnet that make it so that , if it were to hit the rider in the head , it wouldn 't injure him .
in addition , you can see from the diagram on the right , the underpart of the slide would be an electromagnet .
so this would actually repel the rider a little bit as you 're going down .
the force of the water rushing down , in addition to that repulsion force , would make this slide go faster than any slide on the market .
it 's because of this that you need the magnetic braking system .
when you get to the very bottom of the slide -- -- the rider passes through an aluminum tube .
and i 'm going to kick it to keith to explain why that 's important from a technical standpoint .
ks : so i 'm sure all you engineers know that even though aluminum is a metal , it 's not a magnetic material . but something unexpected happens when you drop a magnet down an aluminum tube .
so we set up a quick experiment here to show that to you . now , you see the magnet fell really slowly .
now , i 'm not going to get into the physics of it , but all you need to know is that the faster the magnet 's falling , the greater the stopping force .
zk : now , our next technology is actually a 10-foot pole ,
and i have it right here in my pocket .
there 're a few different versions of it .
ks : some of them automatically unroll like this one .
they can be made to automatically roll up , or they can be made stable , like zach 's , to hold any position in between .
zk : as we were talking to the vendor -- to try to learn about how you could apply these , or how they 're being applied currently -- he was telling us that , in the military they use this one so soldiers can keep it on their chests -- very concealed -- and then , when they 're out on the field , erect it as an antenna to clearly send signals back to the base .
in our brainstorms , we came up with the idea you could use it for a soccer goal : so at the end of the game , you just roll up the goal and put it in your gym bag .
ks : now , the interesting thing about this is , you don 't have to be an engineer to appreciate why a 10-foot pole that can fit in your pocket is so interesting .
so we decided to go out onto the streets of chicago and ask a few people on the streets what they thought you could do with this .
man : i clean my ceiling fans with that and i get the spider webs off my house -- i do it that way .
woman : i 'd make my very own walking stick .
woman : i would create a ladder to use to get up on top of the tree .
woman : an olive server .
man : some type of extension pole -- like what the painters use .
woman : i would make a spear that , when you went deep sea diving , you could catch the fish really fast , and then roll it back up , and you could swim easier ... yeah .
zk : now , for our next technology we 're going to do a little demonstration , and so we need a volunteer from the audience .
you sir , come on up .
come on up . tell everybody your name .
steve jurvetson : steve .
zk : it 's steve . all right steve , now , follow me .
we need you to stand right in front of the ted sign .
right there . that 's great .
and hold onto this . good luck to you .
ks : no , not yet .
zk : i 'd just like to let you all know that this presentation has been brought to you by target .
ks : little bit -- that 's perfect , just perfect .
now , zach , we 're going to demonstrate a water gun fight from the future .
so here , come on up to the front . all right , so now if you 'll see here -- no , no , it 's ok .
so , describe to the audience the temperature of your shirt . go ahead .
sj : it 's cold .
ks : now the reason it 's cold is that 's it 's not actually water loaded into these squirt guns -- it 's a dry liquid developed by 3m .
it 's perfectly clear , it 's odorless , it 's colorless .
it 's so safe you could drink this stuff .
and the reason it feels cold is because it evaporates 25 times faster than water .
all right , well thanks for coming up .
zk : wait , wait , steven -- before you go we filled this with the dry liquid so during the break you can shoot your friends .
sj : excellent , thank you .
ks : thanks for coming up . let 's give him a big round of applause .
so what 's the significance of this dry liquid ?
early versions of the fluid were actually used on a cray supercomputer .
now , the unexpected thing about this is that zach could stand up on stage and drench a perfectly innocent member of the audience without any concern that we 'd damage the electronics , that we 'd get him wet , that we 'd hurt the books or the computers . it works because it 's non-conductive .
so you can see here , you can immerse a whole circuit board in this and it wouldn 't cause any damage .
you can circulate it to draw the heat away .
but today it 's most widely used in office buildings -- in the sprinkler system -- as a fire-suppression fluid .
again , it 's perfectly safe for people . it puts out the fires , doesn 't hurt anything .
but our favorite idea for this was using it in a basketball game . so during halftime , it could rain down on the players , cool everyone down , and in a matter of minutes it would dry . wouldn 't hurt the court .
zk : our next technology comes to us from a company in japan called sekisui chemical . one of their r & d engineers was working on a way to make plastic stiffer .
while he was doing this , he noticed an unexpected thing .
we have a video to show you .
ks : so you see there , it didn 't bounce back . now , this was an unintended side effect of some experiments they were doing .
it 's technically called , " shape-retaining property . " now , think about your interactions with aluminum foil .
shape-retaining is common in metal : you bend a piece of aluminum foil , and it holds its place . contrast that with a plastic garbage can -- and you can push in the sides and it always bounces back .
zk : for example , you could make a watch that wraps around your wrist , but doesn 't use a buckle .
taking it a little further , if you wove those strips together -- kind of like a little basket -- you could make a shape-retaining sheet , and then you could embed it in a cloth : so you could make a picnic sheet that wraps around the table , so that way on a windy day it wouldn 't blow away .
for our next technology , it 's hard to observe the unexpected property by itself , because it 's an ink .
so , we 've prepared a video to show it applied to paper .
ks : as this paper is bending , the resistance of the ink changes .
so with simple electronics , you can detect how much the page is being bent .
now , to think about the potential for this , think of all the places ink is supplied : on business cards , on the back of cereal boxes , board games . any place you use ink , you could change the way you interact with it .
zk : so my favorite idea for this is to apply the ink to a book .
this could totally change the way that you interface with paper .
you see the dark line on the side and the top . as you turn the pages of the book , the book can actually detect what page you 're on , based on the curvature of the pages .
in addition , if you were to fold in one of the corners , then you could program the book to actually email you the text on the page for your notes .
ks : for our last technology , we worked again with roman and his team at the directors bureau to develop a commercial from the future to explain how it works .
old milk carton : oh yeah , it smells good .
who are you ?
new milk carton : i 'm new milk .
omc : i used to smell like you .
narrator : fresh watch , from inventables dairy farms .
packaging that changes color when your milk 's gone off .
don 't let milk spoil your morning .
zk : now , this technology was developed by these two guys : professor ken suslick and neil rakow , of the university of illinois .
ks : now the way it works : there 's a matrix of color dyes .
and these dyes change color in response to odors .
so the smell of vanilla , that might change the four on the left to brown and the one on the right to yellow . this matrix can produce thousands of different color combinations to represent thousands of different smells .
but like in the milk commercial , if you know what odor you want to detect , then they can formulate a specific dye to detect just that odor .
zk : right . it was that that started a conversation with professor suslick and myself , and he was explaining to me the things that this is making possible ,
beyond just detecting spoiled food . it 's really where the significance of it lies .
his company actually did a survey of firemen all across the country to try to learn , how are they currently testing the air when they respond to an emergency scene ?
and he kind of comically explained that time after time , what the firemen would say is : they would rush to the scene of the crime ; they would look around ;
if there were no dead policemen , it was ok to go .
i mean , this is a true story . they 're using policemen as canaries .
but more seriously , they determined that you could develop a device that can smell better than the humans , and say if it 's safe for the firemen .
in addition , he 's spun off a company from the university called chemsensing , where they 're working on medical equipment . so , a patient can come in and actually blow into their device .
by detecting the odor of particular bacteria , or viruses , or even lung cancer , the dots will change and they can use software to analyze the results .
this can radically improve the way that doctors diagnose patients .
currently , they 're using a method of trial and error , but this could tell you precisely what disease you have .
ks : so that was the six we had for you today , but i hope you 're starting to see why we find these things so fascinating .
because every one of these six changed our understanding of what was possible in the world . prior to seeing this , we would have assumed : a 10-foot pole couldn 't fit in your pocket ;
something as inexpensive as ink couldn 't sense the way paper is being bent ;
every one of these things -- and we 're constantly trying to find more .
zk : this is something that keith and i really enjoy doing .
i 'm sure it 's obvious to you now , but it was actually yesterday that i was reminded of why . i was having a conversation with steve jurvetson , over downstairs by the escalators , and he was telling me that when chris sent out that little box , one of the items in it was the hydrophobic sand -- the sand that doesn 't get wet . he said that he was playing with it with his son .
and you know , his son was mesmerized , because he would dunk it in the water , he would take it out and it was bone dry . a few weeks later , he said that his son was playing with a lock of his mother 's hair , and he noticed that there were some drops of water on the hair .
and he took the thing and he looked up to steve and he said , " look , hydrophobic string . "
i mean , after hearing that story -- that really summed it up for me .
thank you very much .
ks : thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / dan _ barber _ s _ surprising _ foie _ gras _ parable.html
at the taste3 conference , chef dan barber tells the story of a small farm in spain that has found a humane way to produce foie gras . raising his geese in a natural environment , farmer eduardo sousa embodies the kind of food production barber believes in .
entertainment , food , global issues , sustainability
406
dan barber 's foie gras parable
i went to spain a few months ago and i had the best foie gras of my life .
the best culinary experience of my life .
because what i saw , i 'm convinced , is the future of cooking .
ridiculous , right ?
foie gras and the future of cooking .
there 's not a food today that 's more maligned than foie gras , right ?
i mean , it 's crucified .
it was outlawed in chicago for a while .
it 's pending here in california , and just recently in new york .
it 's like if you 're a chef and you put it on your menu , you risk being attacked .
really , it happened here in san francisco to a famous chef .
i 'm not saying that there 's not a rationale for being opposed to foie gras .
the reasons usually just boil down to the gavage , which is the force feeding .
basically you take a goose or a duck and you force feed a ton of grain down its throat .
more grain in a couple of weeks than it would ever get in a lifetime .
its liver expands by eight times .
suffice to say it 's like -- it 's not the prettiest picture of sustainable farming .
the problem for us chefs is that it 's so freakin ' delicious .
i mean , i love the stuff .
it is fatty , it 's sweet , it 's silky , it 's unctuous .
it makes everything else you put it with taste incredible .
can we produce a menu that 's delicious without foie gras ?
yes , sure .
you can also bike the tour de france without steroids , right ?
not a lot of people are doing it .
and for good reason .
so several months ago , a friend of mine sent me this link to this guy , eduardo sousa .
eduardo is doing what he calls natural foie gras .
natural foie gras .
what 's natural about foie gras ?
to take advantage of when the temperature drops in the fall , geese and ducks gorge on food to prepare for the harsh realities of winter .
and the rest of the year they 're free to roam around eduardo 's land and eat what they want .
so no gavage , no force feeding , no factory-like conditions , no cruelty .
and it 's shockingly not a new idea .
his great-granddad started -- pateria de sousa -- in 1812 .
and they 've been doing it quietly ever since .
that is until last year , when eduardo won the coup de coeur , the coveted french gastronomic prize .
it 's like the olympics of food products .
he placed first for his foie gras .
big , big problem .
as he said to me , that really pissed the french off .
he said it sort of gleefully .
it was all over the papers .
i read about it . it was in le monde .
" spanish chef accused ... " -- and the french accused him .
" spanish chef accused of cheating . "
they accused him of paying off the judges .
they implicated actually , the spanish government , amazingly .
huh , amazing .
a huge scandal for a few weeks .
couldn 't find a shred of evidence .
now , look at the guy .
he doesn 't look like a guy who 's paying off french judges for his foie gras .
so that died down , and very soon afterward , new controversy .
he shouldn 't win because it 's not foie gras .
it 's not foie gras because it 's not gavage .
there 's no force feeding .
so by definition , he 's lying and should be disqualified .
as funny as it sounds , articulating it now and reading about it -- actually , if we had talked about it before this controversy , i would have said , " that 's kind of true . "
you know , foie gras by definition , force feeding , it 's gavage , and that 's what you get when you want foie gras .
that is , until i went to eduardo 's farm in extremadura , 50 miles north of seville , right on the portugal border .
i saw first-hand a system that is incredibly complex and then at the same time , like everything beautiful in nature , is utterly simple .
and he said to me , really from the first moment , my life 's work is to give the geese what they want .
he repeated that about 50 times in the two days i was with him .
i 'm just here to give the geese what they want .
actually , when i showed up he was lying down with the geese with his cell phone
taking pictures of them
like his children in the grass .
amazing .
he 's really just in love with -- he 's at one with -- he 's the goose whisperer .
and when i was speaking to him , you know , i thought , like i 'm speaking to you now , right , but sort of in the middle of my questions , my excited questions , because the more i got to know him and his system , the more exciting this whole idea became .
he kept going like this to me .
and i thought , ok , excited jew from new york , right ?
i 'm talking a little too aggressively , whatever , so you know , i slowed down .
and finally , by the end of the day i was like , ed-uar-do , you know like this ?
but he was still going like this .
i figured it out .
i was speaking too loudly .
so i hushed my voice .
i kind of like asked these questions and chatted with him through a translator in kind of a half whisper .
and he stopped doing this .
and amazingly , the geese who were on the other side of the paddock when i was around -- " get the hell away from this kid ! " --
when i lowered my voice , they all came right up to us .
right up to us , like right up to here .
right along the fence line .
and fence line was amazing in itself .
the fence -- like this conception of fence that we have it 's totally backward with him .
the electricity on this fiberglass fence is only on the outside .
he rewired it . he invented it .
i 've never seen it . have you ?
you fence in animals . you electrify the inside .
he doesn 't .
he electrifies only the outside .
why ?
because he said to me that he felt like the geese -- and he proved this actually , not just a conceit , he proved this -- the geese felt manipulated when they were imprisoned in their little paddocks .
even though they were imprisoned in this garden of eden with figs and everything else .
he felt like they felt manipulated .
so he got rid of the electricity , he got rid of current on the inside and kept it on the outside , so it would protect them against coyotes and other predators .
now , what happened ?
they ate , and he showed me on a chart , how they ate about 20 percent more feed to feed their livers .
the landscape is incredible .
i mean , his farm is incredible .
it really is the garden of eden .
there 's figs and everything else there for the taking .
and the irony of ironies is because extremadura , the area -- what does extremadura mean ?
extra hard land , right ?
extra difficult . extra hard .
but over four generations , he and his family have literally transformed this extra hard land into a tasting menu . upgrades the life for these geese .
and they are allowed to take whatever they want .
another irony , the double irony is that on the figs and the olives , eduardo can make more money selling those than he can on the foie gras .
he doesn 't care .
he lets them take what they want and he says , " usually , it 's about 50 percent . they 're very fair . "
the other 50 percent , he takes and he sells and he makes money on them .
part of the income for his farm .
a big part of his income for his farm .
but he never controls it .
they get what they want , they leave the rest for me and i sell it .
his biggest obstacle , really , was the marketplace , which demands these days bright yellow foie gras .
that 's how i 've been trained .
you want to look and see what good foie gras is , it 's got to be bright yellow .
it 's the indication that it 's the best foie gras .
well , because he doesn 't force feed , because he doesn 't gavage tons of corn , his livers were pretty grey .
or they were .
but he found this wild plant called the lupin bush .
the lupin bush , it 's all around extremadura .
he let it go to seed , he took the seeds , he planted it on his 30 acres , all around .
and the geese love the lupin bush .
not for the bush , but for the seeds .
and when they eat the seeds , their foie gras turns yellow .
radioactive yellow .
bright yellow .
of the highest quality foie gras yellow i 've ever seen .
so i 'm listening to all this , you know , and i 'm like , is this guy for real ? is he making some of this up ?
is he like , you know -- because he seemed to have an answer for everything , and it was always nature .
it was never him .
and i was like , you know , i always get a little , like , weirded out by people who deflect everything away from themselves .
because , really , they want you to look at themselves , right ?
but he deflected everything away from his ingenuity into working with his landscape .
so it 's like , here i am , i 'm on the fence about this guy , but increasingly , eating up his every word .
and we 're sitting there , and i hear [ clapping ] from a distance , so i look over .
and he grabs my arm and the translator 's , and ducks us under a bush and says , " watch this . "
" shush , " he says again for the 500th time to me .
" shush , watch this . "
and this squadron of geese come over .
[ clapping ] and they 're getting louder , louder , louder , like really loud , right over us .
and like airport traffic control , as they start to go past us they 're called back -- and they 're called back and back and back .
and then they circle around .
and his geese are calling up now to the wild geese .
[ clapping ] and the wild geese are calling down .
[ clapping ] and it 's getting louder and louder and they circle and circle and they land .
and i 'm just saying , " no way . "
no way .
and i look at eduardo , who 's near tears looking at this , and i say , " you 're telling me that your geese are calling to the wild geese to say come for a visit ? "
and he says , " no , no , no .
they 've come to stay . "
they 've come to stay ?
it 's like the dna of a goose is to fly south in the winter , right ?
i said that . i said " isn 't that what they 're put on this earth for ?
to fly south in the winter and north when it gets warm ? "
he said , " no , no , no .
their dna is to find the conditions that are conducive to life .
to happiness .
they find it here .
they don 't need anything more . "
they stop . they mate with his domesticated geese , and his flock continues .
think about that for a minute .
it 's brilliant , right ?
imagine -- i don 't know , imagine a hog farm in , like , north carolina , and a wild pig comes upon a factory farm and decides to stay .
so how did it taste ?
i finally got to taste it before i left .
he took me to his neighborhood restaurant and he served me some of his foie gras , confit de foie gras .
it was incredible .
and the problem with saying that , of course , is that you know , at this point it risks hyperbole really easily .
and i 'd like to make a metaphor , but i don 't have one really .
i was drinking this guy 's kool-aid so much , he could have served me goose feathers and i would have been like , this guy 's a genius , you know ?
i 'm really in love with him at this point .
but it truly was the best foie gras of my life .
so much so that i don 't think i had ever really had foie gras until that moment .
i 'd had something that was called foie gras .
but this was transformative . really transformative .
and i say to you , i might not stick to this , but i don 't think i 'll ever serve foie gras on my menu again because of that taste experience with eduardo .
it was sweet , it was unctuous .
it had all the qualities of foie gras , but its fat had a lot of integrity and a lot of honesty .
and you could taste herbs , you could taste spices .
and i kept -- i said , you know , i swear to god i tasted star anise .
i was sure of it .
and i 'm not like some super taster , you know ?
but i can taste things .
there 's 100 percent star anise in there .
and he says , " no . "
and i ended up like going down the spices , and finally , it was like , ok , salt and pepper , thinking he 's salted and peppered his liver .
but no .
he takes the liver when he harvests the foie gras , he sticks them in this jar
and he confits it .
no salt , no pepper , no oil , no spices .
what ?
we went back out for the final tour of the farm , and he showed me the wild pepper plants and the plants that he made sure existed on his farm for salinity .
he doesn 't need salt and pepper .
and he doesn 't need spices , because he 's got this potpourri of herbs and flavors
that his geese love to gorge on .
i turned to him at the end of the meal , and it 's a question i asked several times , and he hadn 't , kind of , answered me directly , but i said , " now look , you 're in spain , some of the greatest chefs in the world are -- ferran adria , the preeminent chef of the world today , not that far from you .
how come you don 't give him this ?
how come no one 's really heard of you ? "
and it may be because of the wine , or it may be because of my excitement , he answered me directly and he said , " because chefs don 't deserve my foie gras . "
and he was right .
he was right .
chefs take foie gras and they make it their own .
they create a dish where all the vectors point at us .
with eduardo it 's about the expression of nature .
and as he said , i think fittingly , it 's a gift from god , with god saying , you 've done good work .
simple .
i flew home , i 'm on the flight with my little black book and i took , you know , pages and pages of notes about it .
i really was moved .
and in the corner of one of these -- one of my notes , is this note that says , when asked , what do you think of conventional foie gras ?
what do you think of foie gras that 99.99999 percent of the world eats ?
he said , " i think it 's an insult to history . "
and i wrote , insult to history .
i 'm on the plane and i 'm just tearing my hair out .
it 's like , why didn 't i follow up on that ?
what the hell does that mean ?
insult to history .
so i did some research when i got back , and here 's what i found .
the history of foie gras .
jews invented foie gras .
true story .
true story .
by accident .
they were looking for an alternative to schmaltz .
gotten sick of the chicken fat .
they were looking for an alternative .
and they saw in the fall that there was this natural , beautiful , sweet , delicious fat from geese .
and they slaughtered them , used the fat throughout the winter for cooking .
the pharaoh got wind of this -- this is true , right off the internet .
the pharaoh got -- i swear to god .
the pharaoh got wind of this and wanted to taste it .
he tasted it and fell in love with it .
he started demanding it .
and he didn 't want it just in the fall , he wanted it all year round .
and he demanded that the jews supply enough for everyone .
and the jews , fearing for their life , had to come up with an ingenious idea , or at least try and satisfy the pharaoh 's wishes , of course .
and they invented , what ? gavage .
they invented gavage in a great moment of fear for their lives , and they provided the pharaoh with gavage liver , and the good stuff they kept for themselves .
supposedly , anyway . i believe that one .
that 's the history of foie gras .
and if you think about it , it 's the history of industrial agriculture .
it 's the history of what we eat today .
most of what we eat today .
mega-farms , feed lots , chemical amendments , long-distance travel , food processing .
all of it , our food system .
that 's also an insult to history .
it 's an insult to the basic laws of nature and of biology .
whether we 're talking about beef cattle or we 're talking about chickens , or we 're talking about broccoli or brussels sprouts , or in the case of this morning 's new york times , catfish -- which wholesale are going out of business .
whatever it is , it 's a mindset that is reminiscent of general motors .
it 's rooted in extraction .
take more , sell more , waste more .
and for the future it won 't serve us .
jonas salk has a great quote .
he said , " if all the insects disappeared , life on earth as we know it would disappear within 50 years .
if human beings disappeared , life on earth as we know it would flourish . "
and he 's right .
we need now to adopt a new conception of agriculture .
really new .
one in which we stop treating the planet as if it were some kind of business in liquidation .
and stop degrading resources under the guise of cheap food .
we can start by looking to farmers like eduardo .
farmers that rely on nature for solutions , for answers , rather than imposing solutions on nature .
listening as janine benyus , one of my favorite writers and thinkers about this topic says , " listening to nature 's operating instructions . "
that 's what eduardo does , and does so brilliantly .
and what he showed me and what he can show all of us , i think , is that the great thing for chefs , the great blessing for chefs , and for people that care about food and cooking , is that the most ecological choice for food is also the most ethical choice for food .
whether we 're talking about brussels sprouts or foie gras .
and it 's also almost always , and i haven 't found an example otherwise , but almost always , the most delicious choice .
that 's serendipitous .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / amit _ sood _ building _ a _ museum _ of _ museums _ on _ the _ web.html
imagine being able to see artwork in the greatest museums around the world without leaving your chair . driven by his passion for art , amit sood tells the story of how he developed art project to let people do just that .
art , arts , design , technology
1144
amit sood : building a museum of museums on the web
my name is amit .
and 18 months ago , i had another job at google , and i pitched this idea of doing something with museums and art to my boss who 's actually here , and she allowed me to do it .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun , negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i 'm going to focus on the demo .
there are a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal story is explained very simply on the slide , and it 's access .
and i grew up in india .
i had a great education -- i 'm not complaining -- but i didn 't have access to a lot of these museums and these artworks .
and so when i started traveling and going to these museums , i started learning a lot .
and while working at google , i tried to put this desire to make it more accessible with technology together .
so we formed a team , a great team of people , and we started doing this .
i 'm going to probably get into the demo and then tell you a couple of the interesting things we 've had since launch .
so , simple : you come to googleartproject.com .
you look around at all these museums here .
you 've got the uffizi , you 've got the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i 'm going to actually get to one of my favorites , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
two ways of going in -- very simple .
click and , bang , you 're in this museum .
it doesn 't matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn 't really matter .
you move around , you have fun .
you want to navigate around the museum ?
open the plan up , and , in one click , jump .
you 're in there , you want to go to the end of the corridor .
keep going . have fun .
explore .
thanks . i haven 't come to the best part .
so now i 'm in front of one of my favorite paintings , " the harvesters " by pieter bruegel at the met .
i see this plus sign .
if the museum has given us the image , you click on it .
now this is one of the images .
so this is all of the meta-data information .
for those of you who are truly interested in art , you can click this -- but i 'm going to click this off right now .
and this is one of these images that we captured in what we call gigapixel technology .
so this image , for example , has close to , i think , around 10 billion pixels .
and i get a lot of people asking me : " what do you get for 10 billion pixels ? " so i 'm going to try and show you what you really get for 10 billion pixels .
you can zoom around very simply .
you see some fun stuff happening here .
i love this guy ; his expression is priceless .
but then you really want to go deep .
and so i started playing around , and i found something going on over here .
and i was like , " hold on . that sounds interesting . " went in , and i started noticing that these kids were actually beating something .
i did a little research , spoke to a couple of my contacts at the met , and actually found out that this is a game called squall , which involves beating a goose with a stick on shrove tuesday .
and apparently it was quite popular .
i don 't know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
now just to get really deep in , you can really get to the cracks .
now just to give you some perspective , i 'm going to zoom out so you really see what you get .
here is where we were , and this is the painting .
the best is yet to come -- so in a second .
so now let 's just quickly jump into the moma , again in new york .
so another one of my favorites , " the starry night . "
now the example i showed you was all about finding details .
but what if you want to see brush strokes ?
and what if you want to see how van gogh actually created this masterpiece ?
you zoom in . you really go in .
i 'm going to go to one of my favorite parts in this painting , and i 'm really going to get to the cracks .
this is " the starry night , " i think , never seen like this before .
i 'm going to show you my other favorite feature .
there 's a lot of other stuff here , but i don 't have time .
this is the real cool part . it 's called collections .
any one of you , anybody -- doesn 't matter if you 're rich , if you 're poor , if you have a fancy house -- doesn 't matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- create your own collection across all these images .
very simply , you go in -- and i 've created this , called the power of zoom -- you can just zoom around .
this is " the ambassadors , " based in the national gallery .
you can annotate the stuff , send it to your friends and really get a conversation going about what you 're feeling when you go through these masterpieces .
so i think , in conclusion , for me , the main thing is that all the amazing stuff here does not really come from google .
it doesn 't , in my opinion , even come from the museums .
i probably shouldn 't say that .
it really comes from these artists .
and that 's been my humbling experience in this .
i mean , i hope in this digital medium that we do justice to their artwork and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question i get asked nowadays is , " did you do this to replicate the experience of going to a museum ? " and the answer is no .
it 's to supplement the experience .
and that 's it . thank you .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / philippe _ starck _ thinks _ deep _ on _ design.html
designer philippe starck -- with no pretty slides to show -- spends 18 minutes reaching for the very roots of the question " why design ? " listen carefully for one perfect mantra for all of us , genius or not .
design , humanity , humor , philosophy , storytelling
197
philippe starck thinks deep on design
you will understand nothing with my type of english .
it 's good for you because you can have a break after all these fantastic people .
i must tell you i am like that , not very comfortable , because usually , in life , i think my job is absolutely useless .
i mean , i feel useless .
now after carolyn , and all the other guys , i feel like shit .
and definitively , i don 't know why i am here , but -- you know the nightmare you can have , like you are an impostor , you arrive at the opera , and they push you , " you must sing ! "
i don 't know .
so , so , because i have nothing to show , nothing to say , we shall try to speak about something else .
we can start , if you want , by understanding -- it 's just to start , it 's not interesting , but -- how i work .
when somebody comes to me and ask for what i am known , i mean , yes , lemon squeezer , toilet brush , toothpick , beautiful toilet seats , and why not -- a toothbrush ?
i don 't try to design the toothbrush .
i don 't try to say , " oh , that will be a beautiful object , " or something like that .
that doesn 't interest me .
because there is different types of design .
the one , we can call it the cynical design , that means the design invented by raymond loewy in the ' 50s , who said , what is ugly is a bad sale , la laideur se vend mal , which is terrible .
it means the design must be just the weapon for marketing , for producer to make product more sexy , like that , they sell more : it 's shit , it 's obsolete , it 's ridiculous .
i call that the cynical design .
after , there is the narcissistic design : it 's a fantastic designer who designs only for other fantastic designers .
after , there is people like me , who try to deserve to exist , and who are so ashamed to make this useless job , who try to do it in another way , and they try , i try , to not make the object for the object but for the result , for the profit for the human being , the person who will use it .
if we take the toothbrush -- i don 't think about the toothbrush . i think , " what will be the effect of the brush in the mouth ? "
and to understand what will be the effect of the toothbrush in the mouth , i must imagine : who owns this mouth ?
what is the life of the owner of this mouth ? in what society [ does ] this guy live ?
what civilization creates this society ?
what animal species creates this civilization ?
when i arrive -- and i take one minute , i am not so intelligent -- when i arrive at the level of animal species , that becomes real interesting .
me , i have strictly no power to change anything .
but when i come back , i can understand why i shall not do it , because today to not do it , it 's more positive than do it , or how i shall do it .
but to come back , where i am at the animal species , there is things to see .
there is things to see , there is the big challenge .
the big challenge in front of us .
because there is not a human production which exists outside of what i call " the big image . " the big image is our story , our poetry , our romanticism .
our poetry is our mutation , our life .
we must remember , and we can see that in any book of my son of 10 years old , that life appears four billion years ago , around -- four billion point two ?
voice offstage : four point five .
yes , point five , ok , ok , ok ! i 'm a designer , that 's all , of christmas gifts .
and before , there was this soup , called " soupe primordiale , " this first soup -- bloop bloop bloop -- sort of dirty mud , no life , nothing .
so then -- pshoo-shoo -- lightning -- pshoo -- arrive -- pshoo-shoo -- makes life -- bloop bloop -- and that dies .
some million years after -- pshoo-shoo , bloop-bloop -- ah , wake up !
at the end , finally , that succeeds , and life appears .
we was so , so stupid . the most stupid bacteria .
even , i think , we copy our way to reproduce , you know what i mean , and something of -- oh no , forget it .
after , we become a fish ; after , we become a frog ; after , we become a monkey ; after , we become what we are today : a super-monkey , and the fun is , the super-monkey we are today , is at half of the story .
can you imagine ? from that stupid bacteria to us , with a microphone , with a computer , with an ipod : four billion years .
and we know , and especially carolyn knows , that when the sun will implode , the earth will burn , explode , i don 't know what , and this is scheduled for four , four billion years ?
yes , she said , something like that . ok , that means we are at half of the story .
fantastic ! it 's a beauty !
can you imagine ? it 's very symbolic .
because the bacteria we was had no idea of what we are today .
and today , we have no idea of what we shall be in four billion years .
and this territory is fantastic .
that is our poetry . that is our beautiful story .
it 's our romanticism . mu-ta-tion . we are mutants .
and if we don 't deeply understand , if we don 't integrate that we are mutants , we completely miss the story .
because every generation thinks we are the final one .
we have a way to look at earth like that , you know , " i am the man . the final man .
you know , we mutate during four billion years before , but now , because it 's me , we stop . fin .
for the end , for the eternity , it is one with a red jacket . "
something like that . i am not sure of that .
because that is our intelligence of mutation and things like that .
there is so many things to do ; it 's so fresh .
and here is something : nobody is obliged to be a genius , but everybody is obliged to participate .
and to participate , for a mutant , there is a minimum of exercise , a minimum of sport .
we can say that .
the first , if you want -- there is so many -- but one which is very easy to do , is the duty of vision .
i can explain you . i shall try .
if you walk like that , it 's ok , it 's ok , you can walk , but perhaps , because you walk with the eyes like that , you will not see , oh , there is a hole .
and you will fall , and you will die . dangerous .
that 's why , perhaps , you will try to have this angle of vision .
ok , i can see , if i found something , up , up , and they continue , up up up .
i raise the angle of vision , but it 's still very -- selfish , selfish , egoiste -- yes , selfish .
you , you survive . it 's ok .
if you raise the level of your eyes a little more you go , " i see you , oh my god you are here , how are you , i can help you ,
i can design for you a new toothbrush , new toilet brush , " something like that .
i live in society ; i live in community .
it 's ok . you start to be in the territory of intelligence , we can say .
from this level , the more you can raise this angle of view , the more you will be important for the society .
the more you will rise , the more you will be important for the civilization .
the more you will rise , to see far and high , like that , the more you will be important for the story of our mutation .
that means intelligent people are in this angle . that is intelligence .
from this to here , that , it 's genius .
ptolemy , eratosthenes , einstein , things like that .
nobody 's obliged to be a genius .
it 's better , but nobody .
take care , in this training , to be a good mutant . there is some danger , there is some trap . one trap : the vertical .
because at the vertical of us , if you look like that , " ah ! my god , there is god . ah ! god ! "
god is a trap . god is the answer when we don 't know the answer .
that means , when your brain is not enough big , when you don 't understand , you go , " ah , it 's god , it 's god . " that 's ridiculous .
that 's why -- jump , like that ? no , don 't jump .
come back . because , after , there is another trap .
if you look like that , you look to the past , or you look inside if you are very flexible , inside yourself .
it 's called schizophrenia , and you are dead also .
that 's why every morning , now , because you are a good mutant , you will raise your angle of view .
out , more of the horizontal . you are an intelligence .
never forget -- like that , like that .
it 's very , very , very important .
what , what else we can say about that ? why do that ?
it 's because we -- if we look from far , we see our line of evolution .
this line of evolution is clearly positive .
from far , this line looks very smooth , like that .
but if you take a lens , like that , this line is ack , ack , ack , ack , ack . like that .
it 's made of light and shadow .
we can say light is civilization , shadow is barbaria .
and it 's very important to know where we are .
because some cycle , there is a spot in the cycle , and you have not the same duty in the different parts of the cycle .
that means , we can imagine -- i don 't say it was fantastic , but in the ' 80s , there was not too much war , like that , it was -- we can imagine that the civilization can become civilized .
in this case , people like me are acceptable .
we can say , " it 's luxurious time . "
we have time to think , we have time to i don 't know what , speak about art and things like that .
it 's ok . we are in the light .
but sometimes , like today , we fall , we fall so fast , so fast to shadow , we fall so fast to barbaria .
with many , many , many , many face of barbaria .
because it 's not , the barbaria we have today , it 's perhaps not the barbaria we think .
there is different type of barbaria .
that 's why we must adapt .
that means , when barbaria is back , forget the beautiful chairs , forget the beautiful hotel , forget design , even -- i 'm sorry to say -- forget art .
forget all that . there is priority ; there is urgency .
you must go back to politics , you must go back to radicalization ,
i 'm sorry if that 's not very english .
you must go back to fight , to battle .
that 's why today i 'm so ashamed to make this job .
that 's why i am here , to try to do it the best possible .
but i know that even i do it the best possible -- that 's why i 'm the best -- it 's nothing .
because it 's not the right time .
that 's why i say that . i say that , because , i repeat , nothing exist if it 's not in the good reason , the reason of our beautiful dream , of this civilization .
and because we must all work to finish this story .
because the scenario of this civilization -- about love , progress , and things like that -- it 's ok , but there is so many different , other scenarios of other civilizations .
this scenario , of this civilization , was about becoming powerful , intelligent , like this idea we have invented , this concept of god .
we are god now . we are . it 's almost done .
we have just to finish the story .
that is very , very important .
and when you don 't understand really what 's happened , you cannot go and fight and work and build and things like that .
you go to the future back , back , back , back , like that .
and you can fall , and it 's very dangerous .
no , you must really understand that .
because we have almost finished , i 'll repeat this story .
and the beauty of this , in perhaps 50 years , 60 years , we can finish completely this civilization ,
and offer to our children the possibility to invent a new story , a new poetry , a new romanticism .
with billions of people who have been born , worked , lived and died before us , these people who have worked so much , we have now bring beautiful things , beautiful gifts , we know so many things .
we can say to our children , ok , done , that was our story . that passed . now you have a duty : invent a new story . invent a new poetry .
the only rule is , we have not to have any idea about the next story .
we give you white pages . invent .
we give you the best tools , the best tools , and now , do it .
that 's why i continue to work , even if it 's for toilet brush .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / tim _ leberecht _ 3 _ ways _ to _ usefully _ lose _ control _ of _ your _ reputation.html
the days are past when a person , company or brand could tightly control their reputation -- online chatter and spin mean that if you 're relevant , there 's a constant , free-form conversation happening about you that you have no control over . tim leberecht offers three big ideas about accepting that loss of control , even designing for it -- and using it as an impetus to recommit to your values .
business , design , social media
1591
tim leberecht : 3 ways to lose control of your brand
companies are losing control .
what happens on wall street no longer stays on wall street .
what happens in vegas ends up on youtube .
reputations are volatile . loyalties are fickle .
management teams seem increasingly disconnected from their staff .
a recent survey said that 27 percent of bosses believe their employees are inspired by their firm .
however , in the same survey , only four percent of employees agreed .
companies are losing control of their customers and their employees .
but are they really ?
i 'm a marketer , and as a marketer , i know that i 've never really been in control .
your brand is what other people say about you when you 're not in the room , the saying goes .
hyperconnectivity and transparency allow companies to be in that room now , 24 / 7 .
they can listen and join the conversation .
in fact , they have more control over the loss of control than ever before .
they can design for it . but how ?
first of all , they can give employees and customers more control .
they can collaborate with them on the creation of ideas , knowledge , content , designs and product .
they can give them more control over pricing , which is what the band radiohead did with its pay-as-you-like online release of its album " in rainbows . " buyers could determine the price , but the offer was exclusive , and only stood for a limited period of time .
the album sold more copies than previous releases of the band .
the danish chocolate company anthon berg opened a so-called " generous store " in copenhagen .
it asked customers to purchase chocolate with the promise of good deeds towards loved ones .
it turned transactions into interactions , and generosity into a currency .
companies can even give control to hackers .
when microsoft kinect came out , the motion-controlled add-on to its xbox gaming console , it immediately drew the attention of hackers .
microsoft first fought off the hacks , but then shifted course when it realized that actively supporting the community came with benefits .
the sense of co-ownership , the free publicity , the added value , all helped drive sales .
the ultimate empowerment of customers is to ask them not to buy .
outdoor clothier patagonia encouraged prospective buyers to check out ebay for its used products and to resole their shoes before purchasing new ones .
in an even more radical stance against consumerism , the company placed a " don 't buy this jacket " advertisement during the peak of shopping season .
it may have jeopardized short-term sales , but it builds lasting , long-term loyalty based on shared values .
research has shown that giving employees more control over their work makes them happier and more productive .
the brazilian company semco group famously lets employees set their own work schedules and even their salaries .
hulu and netflix , among other companies , have open vacation policies .
companies can give people more control , but they can also give them less control .
traditional business wisdom holds that trust is earned by predictable behavior , but when everything is consistent and standardized , how do you create meaningful experiences ?
giving people less control might be a wonderful way to counter the abundance of choice and make them happier .
take the travel service nextpedition .
nextpedition turns the trip into a game , with surprising twists and turns along the way .
it does not tell the traveler where she 's going until the very last minute , and information is provided just in time . similarly , dutch airline klm launched a surprise campaign , seemingly randomly handing out small gifts to travelers en route to their destination .
u.k.-based interflora monitored twitter for users who were having a bad day , and then sent them a free bouquet of flowers .
is there anything companies can do to make their employees feel less pressed for time ? yes .
force them to help others .
a recent study suggests that having employees complete occasional altruistic tasks throughout the day increases their sense of overall productivity .
at frog , the company i work for , we hold internal speed meet sessions that connect old and new employees , helping them get to know each other fast .
by applying a strict process , we give them less control , less choice , but we enable more and richer social interactions .
companies are the makers of their fortunes , and like all of us , they are utterly exposed to serendipity .
that should make them more humble , more vulnerable and more human .
at the end of the day , as hyperconnectivity and transparency expose companies ' behavior in broad daylight , staying true to their true selves is the only sustainable value proposition .
or as the ballet dancer alonzo king said , " what 's interesting about you is you . "
for the true selves of companies to come through , openness is paramount , but radical openness is not a solution , because when everything is open , nothing is open .
" a smile is a door that is half open and half closed , " the author jennifer egan wrote .
companies can give their employees and customers more control or less . they can worry about how much openness is good for them , and what needs to stay closed .
or they can simply smile , and remain open to all possibilities .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / wael _ ghonim _ inside _ the _ egyptian _ revolution.html
wael ghonim is the google executive who helped jumpstart egypt 's democratic revolution ... with a facebook page memorializing a victim of the regime 's violence . speaking at tedxcairo , he tells the inside story of the past two months , when everyday egyptians showed that " the power of the people is stronger than the people in power . "
politics , social change
1086
wael ghonim : inside the egyptian revolution
this is revolution 2.0 .
no one was a hero . no one was a hero .
because everyone was a hero .
everyone has done something .
we all use wikipedia .
if you think of the concept of wikipedia where everyone is collaborating on content ,
and at the end of the day you 've built the largest encyclopedia in the world .
from just an idea that sounded crazy , you have the largest encyclopedia in the world .
and in the egyptian revolution , the revolution 2.0 , everyone has contributed something , small or big . they contributed something -- to bring us one of the most inspiring stories in the history of mankind when it comes to revolutions .
it was actually really inspiring to see all these egyptians completely changing .
if you look at the scene , egypt , for 30 years , had been in a downhill -- going into a downhill .
everything was going bad .
everything was going wrong .
we only ranked high when it comes to poverty , corruption , lack of freedom of speech , lack of political activism .
those were the achievements of our great regime .
yet , nothing was happening .
and it 's not because people were happy or people were not frustrated .
in fact , people were extremely frustrated .
but the reason why everyone was silent is what i call the psychological barrier of fear .
everyone was scared .
not everyone . there were actually a few brave egyptians that i have to thank for being so brave -- going into protests as a couple of hundred , getting beaten up and arrested .
but in fact , the majority were scared .
everyone did not want really to get in trouble .
a dictator cannot live without the force .
they want to make people live in fear .
and that psychological barrier of fear had worked for so many years , and here comes the internet , technology , blackberry , sms .
it 's helping all of us to connect .
platforms like youtube , twitter , facebook were helping us a lot because it basically gave us the impression that , " wow , i 'm not alone .
there are a lot of people who are frustrated . " there are lots of people who are frustrated .
there are lots of people who actually share the same dream .
there are lots of people who care about their freedom .
they probably have the best life in the world .
they are living in happiness . they are living in their villas .
they are happy . they don 't have problems .
but they are still feeling the pain of the egyptian .
a lot of us , we 're not really happy when we see a video of an egyptian man who 's eating the trash while others are stealing billions of egyptian pounds from the wealth of the country .
the internet has played a great role , helping these people to speak up their minds , to collaborate together , to start thinking together .
it was an educational campaign .
khaled saeed was killed in june 2010 .
i still remember the photo .
i still remember every single detail of that photo .
the photo was horrible .
he was tortured , brutally tortured to death .
but then what was the answer of the regime ?
" he choked on a pile of hash " --
that was their answer : " he 's a criminal .
he 's someone who escaped from all these bad things . " but people did not relate to this .
people did not believe this .
because of the internet , the truth prevailed and everyone knew the truth .
and everyone started to think that " this guy could be my brother . " he was a middle-class guy .
his photo was remembered by all of us .
a page was created .
an anonymous administrator was basically inviting people to join the page , and there was no plan .
" what are we going to do ? " " i don 't know . " in a few days , tens of thousands of people there -- angry egyptians who were asking the ministry of interior affairs , " enough .
get those who killed this guy . to just bring them to justice . " but of course , they don 't listen .
it was an amazing story -- how everyone started feeling the ownership .
everyone was an owner in this page .
people started contributing ideas .
in fact , one of the most ridiculous ideas was , " hey , let 's have a silent stand .
let 's get people to go in the street , face the sea , their back to the street , dressed in black , standing up silently for one hour , doing nothing and then just leaving , going back home . "
for some people , that was like , " wow , silent stand .
and next time it 's going to be vibration . " people were making fun of the idea .
but actually when people went to the street -- the first time it was thousands of people in alexandria -- it felt like -- it was amazing . it was great
because it connected people from the virtual world , bringing them to the real world , sharing the same dream , the same frustration , the same anger , the same desire for freedom .
and they were doing this thing .
but did the regime learn anything ? not really .
they were actually attacking them .
they were actually abusing them , despite the fact of how peaceful these guys were -- they were not even protesting .
and things had developed until the tunisian revolution .
this whole page was , again , managed by the people .
in fact , the anonymous admin job was to collect ideas , help people to vote on them and actually tell them what they are doing .
people were taking shots and photos ; people were reporting violations of human rights in egypt ; people were suggesting ideas , they were actually voting on ideas , and then they were executing the ideas ; people were creating videos .
everything was done by the people to the people , and that 's the power of the internet .
there was no leader .
the leader was everyone on that page .
the tunisian experiment , as amir was saying , inspired all of us , showed us that there is a way .
yes we can . we can do it .
we have the same problems ; we can just go in the streets .
and when i saw the street on the 25th , i went back and said , " egypt before the 25th is never going to be egypt after the 25th .
the revolution is happening .
this is not the end , this is the beginning of the end . " i was detained on the 27th night .
thank god i announced the locations and everything .
but they detained me .
and i 'm not going to talk about my experience , because this is not about me .
i was detained for 12 days , blindfolded , handcuffed .
and i did not really hear anything . i did not know anything .
i was not allowed to speak with anyone .
and i went out .
the next day i was in tahrir .
seriously , with the amount of change i had noticed in this square , i thought it was 12 years .
i never had in my mind to see this egyptian , the amazing egyptian .
the fear is no longer fear .
it 's actually strength -- it 's power .
people were so empowered .
it was amazing how everyone was so empowered and now asking for their rights .
completely opposite .
extremism became tolerance .
who would [ have ] imagined before the 25th , if i tell you that hundreds of thousands of christians are going to pray and tens of thousands of muslims are going to protect them , and then hundreds of thousands of muslims are going to pray and tens of thousands of christians are going to protect them -- this is amazing .
all the stereotypes that the regime was trying to put on us through their so-called propaganda , or mainstream media , are proven wrong .
this whole revolution showed us how ugly such a regime was and how great and amazing the egyptian man , the egyptian woman , how simple and amazing these people are whenever they have a dream .
when i saw that , i went back and i wrote on facebook .
and that was a personal belief , regardless of what 's going on , regardless of the details .
i said that , " we are going to win .
we are going to win because we don 't understand politics .
we 're going to win because we don 't play their dirty games .
we 're going to win because we don 't have an agenda .
we 're going to win because the tears that come from our eyes actually come from our hearts .
we 're going to win because we have dreams .
we 're going to win because we are willing to stand up for our dreams . " and that 's actually what happened . we won .
and that 's not because of anything , but because we believed in our dream .
the winning here is not the whole details of what 's going to happen in the political scene .
the winning is the winning of the dignity of every single egyptian .
actually , i had this taxi driver telling me , " listen , i am breathing freedom .
i feel that i have dignity that i have lost for so many years . " for me that 's winning , regardless of all the details .
my last word to you is a statement i believe in , which egyptians have proven to be true ,
that the power of the people is much stronger than the people in power .
thanks a lot .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / patricia _ kuhl _ the _ linguistic _ genius _ of _ babies.html
at tedxrainier , patricia kuhl shares astonishing findings about how babies learn one language over another -- by listening to the humans around them and " taking statistics " on the sounds they need to know . clever lab experiments show how 6-month-old babies use sophisticated reasoning to understand their world .
brain , children , language , science , technology
1075
patricia kuhl : the linguistic genius of babies
i want you to take a look at this baby .
what you 're drawn to are her eyes and the skin you love to touch .
but today i 'm going to talk to you about something you can 't see -- what 's going on up in that little brain of hers .
the modern tools of neuroscience are demonstrating to us that what 's going on up there is nothing short of rocket science .
and what we 're learning is going to shed some light on what the romantic writers and poets described as the " celestial openness " of the child 's mind .
what we see here is a mother in india ,
and she 's speaking koro , which is a newly discovered language .
and she 's talking to her baby .
what this mother -- and the 800 people who speak koro in the world -- understands [ is ] that , to preserve this language , they need to speak it to the babies .
and therein lies a critical puzzle .
why is it that you can 't preserve a language by speaking to you and i , to the adults ?
well , it 's got to do with your brain .
what we see here is that language has a critical period for learning .
the way to read this slide is to look at your age on the horizontal axis .
and you 'll see on the vertical your skill at acquiring a second language .
babies and children are geniuses until they turn seven , and then there 's a systematic decline .
after puberty , we fall off the map .
no scientists dispute this curve , but laboratories all over the world are trying to figure out why it works this way .
work in my lab is focused on the first critical period in development -- and that is the period in which babies try to master which sounds are used in their language .
we think , by studying how the sounds are learned , we 'll have a model for the rest of language , and perhaps for critical periods that may exist in childhood for social , emotional and cognitive development .
so we 've been studying the babies using a technique that we 're using all over the world and the sounds of all languages .
the baby sits on a parent 's lap , and we train them to turn their heads when a sound changes -- like from " ah " to " ee . " if they do so at the appropriate time , the black box lights up and a panda bear pounds a drum .
a six-monther adores the task .
what have we learned ?
well , babies all over the world are what i like to describe as " citizens of the world . " they can discriminate all the sounds of all languages , no matter what country we 're testing and what language we 're using ,
and that 's remarkable because you and i can 't do that .
we 're culture-bound listeners .
we can discriminate the sounds of our own language , but not those of foreign languages .
so the question arises : when do those citizens of the world turn into the language-bound listeners that we are ?
and the answer : before their first birthdays .
what you see here is performance on that head-turn task for babies tested in tokyo and the united states , here in seattle , as they listened to " ra " and " la " -- sounds important to english , but not to japanese .
so at six to eight months the babies are totally equivalent .
two months later something incredible occurs .
the babies in the united states are getting a lot better , babies in japan are getting a lot worse , but both of those groups of babies are preparing for exactly the language that they are going to learn .
so the question is : what 's happening during this critical two-month period ?
this is the critical period for sound development , but what 's going on up there ?
so there are two things going on .
the first is that the babies are listening intently to us , and they 're taking statistics as they listen to us talk -- they 're taking statistics .
so listen to two mothers speaking motherese -- the universal language we use when we talk to kids -- first in english and then in japanese . english mother : ah , i love your big blue eyes -- so pretty and nice .
japanese mother : [ japanese ] patricia kuhl : during the production of speech , when babies listen , what they 're doing is taking statistics on the language that they hear .
and those distributions grow .
and what we 've learned is that babies are sensitive to the statistics , and the statistics of japanese and english are very , very different . english has a lot of rs and ls . the distribution shows .
and the distribution of japanese is totally different , where we see a group of intermediate sounds , which is known as the japanese " r. "
so babies absorb the statistics of the language and it changes their brains ; it changes them from the citizens of the world to the culture-bound listeners that we are .
but we as adults are no longer absorbing those statistics .
we 're governed by the representations in memory that were formed early in development .
so what we 're seeing here is changing our models of what the critical period is about .
we 're arguing from a mathematical standpoint that the learning of language material may slow down when our distributions stabilize .
it 's raising lots of questions about bilingual people .
bilinguals must keep two sets of statistics in mind at once and flip between them , one after the other , depending on who they 're speaking to .
so we asked ourselves , can the babies take statistics on a brand new language ?
and we tested this by exposing american babies who 'd never heard a second language to mandarin for the first time during the critical period .
we knew that , when monolinguals were tested in taipei and seattle on the mandarin sounds , they showed the same pattern .
six to eight months , they 're totally equivalent .
two months later , something incredible happens .
but the taiwanese babies are getting better , not the american babies .
what we did was expose american babies during this period to mandarin .
it was like having mandarin relatives come and visit for a month and move into your house and talk to the babies for 12 sessions .
here 's what it looked like in the laboratory .
mandarin speaker : [ mandarin ] pk : so what have we done to their little brains ?
we had to run a control group to make sure that just coming into the laboratory didn 't improve your mandarin skills .
so a group of babies came in and listened to english .
and we can see from the graph that exposure to english didn 't improve their mandarin .
but look at what happened to the babies exposed to mandarin for 12 sessions .
they were as good as the babies in taiwan who 'd been listening for 10-and-a-half months .
what it demonstrated is that babies take statistics on a new language .
whatever you put in front of them , they 'll take statistics on .
but we wondered what role the human being played in this learning exercise .
so we ran another group of babies in which the kids got the same dosage , the same 12 sessions , but over a television set and another group of babies who had just audio exposure and looked at a teddy bear on the screen . what did we do to their brains ?
what you see here is the audio result -- no learning whatsoever -- and the video result -- no learning whatsoever .
it takes a human being for babies to take their statistics .
the social brain is controlling when the babies are taking their statistics .
we want to get inside the brain and see this thing happening as babies are in front of televisions , as opposed to in front of human beings .
thankfully , we have a new machine , magnetoencephalography , that allows us to do this .
it looks like a hair dryer from mars . but it 's completely safe , completely non-invasive and silent .
we 're looking at millimeter accuracy with regard to spatial and millisecond accuracy using 306 squids -- these are superconducting quantum interference devices -- to pick up the magnetic fields that change as we do our thinking .
we 're the first in the world to record babies in an meg machine while they are learning .
so this is little emma .
she 's a six-monther .
and she 's listening to various languages in the earphones that are in her ears .
you can see , she can move around .
we 're tracking her head with little pellets in a cap ,
so she 's free to move completely unconstrained .
it 's a technical tour de force .
what are we seeing ?
we 're seeing the baby brain .
as the baby hears a word in her language
the auditory areas light up , and then subsequently areas surrounding it that we think are related to coherence , getting the brain coordinated with its different areas , and causality , one brain area causing another to activate .
we are embarking on a grand and golden age of knowledge about child 's brain development .
we 're going to be able to see a child 's brain as they experience an emotion , as they learn to speak and read , as they solve a math problem , as they have an idea .
and we 're going to be able to invent brain-based interventions for children who have difficulty learning .
just as the poets and writers described , we 're going to be able to see , i think , that wondrous openness , utter and complete openness , of the mind of a child .
in investigating the child 's brain , we 're going to uncover deep truths about what it means to be human , and in the process , we may be able to help keep our own minds open to learning for our entire lives .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / joan _ halifax.html
buddhist roshi joan halifax works with people at the last stage of life . she shares what she 's learned about compassion in the face of death and dying , and a deep insight into the nature of empathy .
buddhism , compassion , culture , death , global issues
1216
joan halifax : compassion and the true meaning of empathy
i want to address the issue of compassion .
compassion has many faces .
some of them are fierce ; some of them are wrathful ; some of them are tender ; some of them are wise .
a line that the dalai lama once said , he said , " love and compassion are necessities .
they are not luxuries .
without them , humanity cannot survive . " and i would suggest , it is not only humanity that won 't survive , but it is all species on the planet , as we 've heard today .
it is the big cats , and it 's the plankton .
two weeks ago , i was in bangalore in india .
i was so privileged to be able to teach in a hospice on the outskirts of bangalore .
and early in the morning , i went into the ward .
in that hospice , there were 31 men and women who were actively dying .
and i walked up to the bedside of an old woman who was breathing very rapidly , fragile , obviously in the latter phase of active dying .
i looked into her face .
i looked into the face of her son sitting next to her , and his face was just riven with grief and confusion .
and i remembered a line from the mahabharata , the great indian epic : " what is the most wondrous thing in the world , yudhisthira ? " and yudhisthira replied , " the most wondrous thing in the world is that all around us people can be dying and we don 't realize it can happen to us . " i looked up .
tending those 31 dying people were young women from villages around bangalore .
i looked into the face of one of these women , and i saw in her face the strength that arises when natural compassion is really present .
i watched her hands as she bathed an old man .
my gaze went to another young woman as she wiped the face of another dying person .
and it reminded me of something that i had just been present for .
every year or so , i have the privilege of taking clinicians into the himalayas and the tibetan plateau .
and we run clinics in these very remote regions where there 's no medical care whatsoever .
and on the first day at simikot in humla , far west of nepal , the most impoverished region of nepal , an old man came in clutching a bundle of rags .
and he walked in , and somebody said something to him , we realized he was deaf , and we looked into the rags , and there was this pair of eyes .
the rags were unwrapped from a little girl whose body was massively burned .
again , the eyes and hands of avalokiteshvara .
it was the young women , the health aids , who cleaned the wounds of this baby and dressed the wounds . i know those hands and eyes ; they touched me as well .
they touched me at that time .
they have touched me throughout my 68 years .
they touched me when i was four and i lost my eyesight and was partially paralyzed .
and my family brought in a woman whose mother had been a slave to take care of me .
and that woman did not have sentimental compassion .
she had phenomenal strength .
and it was really her strength , i believe , that became the kind of mudra and imprimatur that has been a guiding light in my life .
so we can ask : what is compassion comprised of ?
and there are various facets .
and there 's referential and non-referential compassion .
but first , compassion is comprised of that capacity to see clearly into the nature of suffering .
it is that ability to really stand strong and to recognize also that i 'm not separate from this suffering .
but that is not enough , because compassion , which activates the motor cortex , means that we aspire , we actually aspire to transform suffering .
and if we 're so blessed , we engage in activities that transform suffering .
but compassion has another component , and that component is really essential .
that component is that we cannot be attached to outcome .
now i worked with dying people for over 40 years .
i had the privilege of working on death row in a maximum security [ prison ] for six years .
and i realized so clearly in bringing my own life experience , from working with dying people and training caregivers , that any attachment to outcome would distort deeply my own capacity to be fully present to the whole catastrophe .
and when i worked in the prison system , it was so clear to me , this : that many of us in this room , and almost all of the men that i worked with on death row , the seeds of their own compassion had never been watered .
that compassion is actually an inherent human quality .
it is there within every human being .
but the conditions for compassion to be activated , to be aroused , are particular conditions .
i had that condition , to a certain extent , from my own childhood illness .
eve ensler , whom you 'll hear later , has had that condition activated amazingly in her through the various waters of suffering that she has been through .
and what is fascinating is that compassion has enemies , and those enemies are things like pity , moral outrage , fear .
and you know , we have a society , a world , that is paralyzed by fear .
and in that paralysis , of course , our capacity for compassion is also paralyzed .
the very word terror is global .
the very feeling of terror is global .
so our work , in a certain way , is to address this imago , this kind of archetype that has pervaded the psyche of our entire globe .
now we know from neuroscience that compassion has some very extraordinary qualities .
for example : a person who is cultivating compassion , when they are in the presence of suffering , they feel that suffering a lot more than many other people do .
however , they return to baseline a lot sooner .
this is called resilience .
many of us think that compassion drains us , but i promise you it is something that truly enlivens us .
another thing about compassion is that it really enhances what 's called neural integration .
it hooks up all parts of the brain .
another , which has been discovered by various researchers at emory and at davis and so on , is that compassion enhances our immune system .
hey , we live in a very noxious world .
most of us are shrinking in the face of psycho-social and physical poisons , of the toxins of our world .
but compassion , the generation of compassion , actually mobilizes our immunity .
you know , if compassion is so good for us , i have a question .
why don 't we train our children in compassion ?
if compassion is so good for us , why don 't we train our health care providers in compassion so that they can do what they 're supposed to do , which is to really transform suffering ?
and if compassion is so good for us , why don 't we vote on compassion ?
why don 't we vote for people in our government based on compassion ,
so that we can have a more caring world ?
in buddhism , we say , " it takes a strong back and a soft front . " it takes tremendous strength of the back to uphold yourself in the midst of conditions .
and that is the mental quality of equanimity .
but it also takes a soft front -- the capacity to really be open to the world as it is , to have an undefended heart .
and the archetype of this in buddhism is avalokiteshvara , kuan-yin . it 's a female archetype : she who perceives the cries of suffering in the world .
she stands with 10,000 arms , and in every hand , there is an instrument of liberation , and in the palm of every hand , there are eyes , and these are the eyes of wisdom .
i say that , for thousands of years , women have lived , exemplified , met in intimacy , the archetype of avalokitesvara , of kuan-yin , she who perceives the cries of suffering in the world .
women have manifested for thousands of years the strength arising from compassion in an unfiltered , unmediated way in perceiving suffering as it is .
they have infused societies with kindness , and we have really felt that as woman after woman has stood on this stage in the past day and a half . and they have actualized compassion through direct action .
jody williams called it : it 's good to meditate .
i 'm sorry , you 've got to do a little bit of that , jody .
step back , give your mother a break , okay .
but the other side of the equation is you 've got to come out of your cave .
you have to come into the world like asanga did , who was looking to realize maitreya buddha after 12 years sitting in the cave .
he said , " i 'm out of here . " he 's going down the path .
he sees something in the path .
he looks , it 's a dog , he drops to his knees .
he sees that the dog has this big wound on its leg .
the wound is just filled with maggots .
he puts out his tongue in order to remove the maggots , so as not to harm them .
and at that moment , the dog transformed into the buddha of love and kindness .
i believe that women and girls today have to partner in a powerful way with men -- with their fathers , with their sons , with their brothers , with the plumbers , the road builders , the caregivers , the doctors , the lawyers , with our president , and with all beings .
the women in this room are lotuses in a sea of fire .
may we actualize that capacity for women everywhere .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / maz _ jobrani _ make _ jokes _ not _ bombs.html
a founding member of the axis of evil comedy tour , standup comic maz jobrani riffs on the challenges and conflicts of being iranian-american -- " like , part of me thinks i should have a nuclear program ; the other part thinks i can 't be trusted ... "
comedy , entertainment , politics
935
maz jobrani : did you hear the one about the iranian-american ?
i was one of the founding members of the axis of evil comedy tour .
the other founding members included ahmed ahmed , who is an egyptian-american , who actually had the idea to go to the middle east and try it out .
before we went out as a tour , he went out solo and did it first .
then there was aron kader , who was the palestinian-american .
and then there was me , the iranian-american of the group .
now , being iranian-american presents its own set of problems , as you know .
those two countries aren 't getting along these days .
so it causes a lot of inner conflict , you know , like part of me likes me , part of me hates me .
part of me thinks i should have a nuclear program , the other part thinks i can 't be trusted with one .
these are dilemmas i have every day .
but i was born in iran ; i 'm now an american citizen , which means i have the american passport , which means i can travel .
because if you only have the iranian passport , you 're kind of limited to the countries you can go to with open arms , you know -- syria , venezuela , north korea .
so anyone who 's gotten their passport in america will tell you , when you get your passport , it still says what country you were born in .
so i remember getting my american passport .
i was like , " woohoo ! i 'm going to travel . "
and i opened it up , it said , " born in iran . " i 'm like , " oh , come on , man . "
" i 'm trying to go places . "
but what 's interesting is , i 've never had trouble traveling in any other western countries with my american passport , even though it says , " born in iran . " no problems .
where i 've had some problems is some of the arab countries , because i guess some of the arab countries aren 't getting along with iran either .
and so i was in kuwait recently , doing a comedy show with some other american comedians .
they all went through , and then the border patrol saw my american passport .
" ah ha ! american , great . "
then he opened it up . " born in iran ? wait . "
and he started asking me questions .
he said , " what is your father 's name ? "
i said , " well , he 's passed away , but his name was khosro . "
he goes , " what is your grandfather 's name ? "
i said , " he passed away a long time ago .
his name was jabbar . "
he says , " you wait . i 'll be back , " and he walked away .
and i started freaking out , because i don 't know what kind of crap my grandfather was into .
thought the guy was going to come back and be like , " we 've been looking for you for 200 years . "
" your grandfather has a parking violation . it 's way overdue .
you owe us two billion dollars . "
but as you can see , when i talk , i speak with an american accent , which you would think as an iranian-american actor , i should be able to play any part , good , bad , what have you .
but a lot of times in hollywood , when casting directors find out you 're of middle eastern descent , they go , " oh , you 're iranian . great .
can you say ' i will kill you in the name of allah ? ' " " i could say that , but what if i were to say , ' hello . i 'm your doctor ? ' "
they go , " great . and then you hijack the hospital . "
like i think you 're missing the point here .
don 't get me wrong , i don 't mind playing bad guys .
i want to play a bad guy . i want to rob a bank .
i want to rob a bank in a film . i want to rob a bank in a film , but do it with a gun , with a gun , not with a bomb strapped around me , right .
because i imagine the director : " maz , i think your character would rob the bank with a bomb around him . "
" why would i do that ?
if i want the money , why would i kill myself ? "
right .
" gimme all your money , or i 'll blow myself up . "
" well , then blow yourself up .
just do it outside , please . "
but the fact is , there 's good people everywhere .
that 's what i try and show in my stand-up . there 's good people everywhere .
all it takes in one person to mess it up . like a couple months ago in times square in new york , there was this pakistani muslim guy who tried to blow up a car bomb .
now , i happened to be in times square that night doing a comedy show .
and a few months before that , there was a white american guy in austin , texas who flew his airplane into the irs building , and i happened to be in austin that day doing a stand-up comedy show .
now i 'll tell you , as a middle eastern male , when you show up around a lot of these activities , you start feeling guilty at one point .
i was watching the news . i 'm like , " am i involved in this crap ? "
" i didn 't get the memo . what 's going on ? "
but what was interesting was , the pakistani muslim guy -- see he gives a bad name to muslims and middle easterners and pakistanis from all over the world .
and one thing that happened there was also the pakistani taliban took credit for that failed car bombing .
my question is : why would you take credit for a failed car bombing ?
" we just wanted to say we tried . "
" and furthermore , it is the thought that counts . "
" and in conclusion , win some , lose some . "
but what happened was , when the white guy flew his plane into the building , i know all my middle eastern and muslim friends in the states were watching tv , going , " please , don 't be middle eastern .
don 't be hassan . don 't be hussein . "
and the name came out jack . i 'm like , " woooo !
that 's not one of us . "
but i kept watching the news in case they came back , they were like , " before he did it , he converted to islam . "
" damn it ! why jack ? why ? "
but the fact is , i 've been lucky to get a chance to perform all over the world , and i did a lot of shows in the middle east .
i just did a seven-country solo tour .
i was in oman , and i was in saudi arabia .
i was in dubai .
and it 's great , there 's good people everywhere .
and you learn great things about these places .
i encourage people always to go visit these places .
for example , dubai -- cool place .
they 're obsessed with having the biggest , tallest , longest , as we all know .
they have a mall there , the dubai mall .
it is so big , they have taxis in the mall .
i was walking . i heard " beep , beep . "
i 'm like , " what are you doing here ? "
he goes , " i 'm going to the zara store . it 's three miles away .
and what 's crazy -- there 's a recession going on , even in dubai , but you wouldn 't know by the prices .
like in the dubai mall , they sell frozen yogurt by the gram .
it 's like a drug deal .
i was walking by . the guy goes , " psst . habibi , my friend . "
" you want some frozen yogurt ?
come here . come here . come here .
i have one gram , five gram , 10 gram . how many gram do you want ? "
i bought five grams . 10 dollars . 10 dollars ! i said , " what 's in this ? "
he 's like , " good stuff , man . columbian . top of the line . top of the line . " the other thing you learn sometimes when you travel to these countries in the middle east , sometimes in latin american countries , south american countries -- a lot of times when they build stuff , there 's no rules and regulations .
for example , i took my two year-old son to the playground at the dubai mall .
and i 've taken my two year-old son to playgrounds all over the united states .
and when you put your two year-old on a slide in the united states , they put something on the slide to slow the kid down as he comes down the slide .
not in the middle east .
i put my two year-old on the slide ; he went frrmrmm ! he took off . i went down . i go , " where 's my son ? "
" on the third floor , sir . on the third floor . "
" you take a taxi . you go to zara . make a left . "
" try the yogurt . it 's very good . little expensive . "
but one of the things i try to do with my stand-up is to break stereotypes .
and i 've been guilty of stereotyping as well .
i was in dubai . and there 's a lot of indians who work in dubai .
and they don 't get paid that well .
and i got it in my head that all the indians there must be workers .
and i forgot there 's obviously successful indians in dubai as well .
i was doing a show , and they said , " we 're going to send a driver to pick you up . "
so i went down to the lobby , and i saw this indian guy .
i go , " he 's got to be my driver . "
because he was standing there in like a cheap suit , thin mustache , staring at me .
so i went over , " excuse me , sir , are you my driver ? "
he goes , " no , sir . i own the hotel . "
i go , " i 'm sorry . then why were you staring at me ? "
he goes , " i thought you were my driver . "
i 'll leave you guys with this : i try , with my stand-up , to break stereotypes , present middle easterners in a positive light -- muslims in a positive light -- and i hope that in the coming years , more film and television programs come out of hollywood presenting us in a positive light .
who knows , maybe one day we 'll even have our own james bond , right .
" my name is bond , jamal bond . "
til then , i 'll keep telling jokes . i hope you keep laughing .
have a good day . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / marco _ tempest _ the _ magic _ of _ truth _ and _ lies _ on _ ipods.html
using three ipods like magical props , marco tempest spins a clever , surprisingly heartfelt meditation on truth and lies , art and emotion .
art , arts , design , entertainment , illusion , magic , music , technology
1211
marco tempest : the magic of truth and lies
so the type of magic i like , and i 'm a magician , is a magic that uses technology to create illusions .
so i would like to show you something i 've been working on .
it 's an application that i think will be useful for artists -- multimedia artists in particular .
it synchronizes videos across multiple screens of mobile devices .
and i borrowed these three ipods from people here in the audience to show you what i mean .
and i 'm going to use them to tell you a little bit about my favorite subject : deception .
one of my favorite magicians is karl germain .
he had this wonderful trick where a rosebush would bloom right in front of your eyes .
but it was his production of a butterfly that was the most beautiful .
announcer : ladies and gentlemen , the creation of life .
marco tempest : when asked about deception , he said this : announcer : magic is the only honest profession .
a magician promises to deceive you -- and he does .
mt : i like to think of myself as an honest magician .
i use a lot of tricks , which means that sometimes i have to lie to you .
now i feel bad about that .
but people lie every day .
hold on .
girl in phone : hey , where are you ?
mt : stuck in traffic . i 'll be there soon .
you 've all done it .
lady : i 'll be ready in just a minute , darling .
man : it 's just what i 've always wanted .
woman : you were great .
mt : deception , it 's a fundamental part of life .
now polls show that men tell twice as many lies as women -- assuming the women they ask told the truth .
we deceive to gain advantage and to hide our weaknesses .
the chinese general sun tzu said that all war was based on deception .
oscar wilde said the same thing of romance .
some people deceive for money .
let 's play a game .
three cards , three chances .
announcer : one five will get you 10 , 10 will get you 20 .
now where 's the lady ?
where is the queen ?
mt : this one ?
sorry . you lose .
well , i didn 't deceive you .
you deceived yourself .
self-deception .
that 's when we convince ourselves that a lie is the truth .
sometimes it 's hard to tell the two apart .
compulsive gamblers are experts at self-deception .
they believe they can win .
they forget the times they lose .
the brain is very good at forgetting .
bad experiences are quickly forgotten .
bad experiences quickly disappear .
which is why in this vast and lonely cosmos , we are so wonderfully optimistic .
our self-deception becomes a positive illusion -- why movies are able to take us onto extraordinary adventures ;
why we believe romeo when he says he loves juliet ;
and why single notes of music , when played together , become a sonata and conjure up meaning .
that 's " clair de lune . "
its composer called debussy said that art was the greatest deception of all .
art is a deception that creates real emotions -- a lie that creates a truth .
and when you give yourself over to that deception , it becomes magic .
thank you . thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / loretta _ napoleoni _ the _ intricate _ economics _ of _ terrorism.html
loretta napoleoni details her rare opportunity to talk to the secretive italian red brigades -- an experience that sparked a lifelong interest in terrorism . she gives a behind-the-scenes look at its complex economics , revealing a surprising connection between money laundering and the us patriot act .
corruption , economics , global issues , money
712
loretta napoleoni : the intricate economics of terrorism
i 'm going to show you how terrorism actually interacts with our daily life .
15 years ago i received a phone call from a friend .
at the time he was looking after the rights of political prisoners in italian jails .
he asked me if i wanted to interview the red brigades .
now , as many of you may remember , the red brigades was a terrorist , marxist organization which was very active in italy from the 1960s until the mid-1980s .
as part of their strategy the red brigades never spoke with anybody , not even with their lawyers .
they sat in silence through their trails , waving occasionally at family and friends .
in 1993 they declared the end of the armed struggle .
and they drew a list of people with whom they would talk , and tell their story .
and i was one of those people .
when i asked my friend why the red brigades want to talk to me , he said that the female members of the organization had actually supported my name .
in particular , one person had put it forward .
she was my childhood friend .
she had joined the red brigades and became a leader of the organization .
naturally , i didn 't know that until the day she was arrested .
in fact , i read it in the newspaper .
at the time of the phone call i just had a baby ,
i successfully completed a management buyout to the company i was working with , and the last thing i wanted to do was to go back home and touring the high-security prisons .
but this is exactly what i did because i wanted to know what had turned my best friend into a terrorist , and why she 'd never tried to recruit me .
so , this is exactly what i did .
now , i found the answer very quickly . i actually had failed the psychological profiling of a terrorist .
the center committee of the red brigades had judged me too single-minded and too opinionated to become a good terrorist .
my friend , on the other hand , she was a good terrorist because she was very good at following orders .
she also embraced violence . because she believed that the only way to unblock what , at the time , was known as a blocked democracy , italy , a country run by the same party for 35 years was the arms struggle .
at the same time , while i was interviewing the red brigades , i also discovered that their life was not ruled by politics or ideology , but actually was ruled by economics .
they were constantly short of cash .
they were constantly searching for cash .
now , contrary to what many people believe , terrorism is actually a very expensive business .
i 'll give you an idea .
in the 1970s , the turnover of the red brigades on a yearly basis was seven million dollars .
this is roughly between 100 and 150 million , today .
now , you know , if you live underground it 's really hard to produce this amount of money .
but this also explains why , when i was interviewing the red brigades , and then , later on , other arms organizations , including members of al-zarqawi group in the middle east , everybody was extremely reluctant to talk about ideology , or politics .
because they had no idea .
the political vision of a terrorist organization is decided by the leadership , which , generally , is never more than five to seven people .
all the others do , day in and day out , is search for money .
once , for example , i was interviewing this part-timer from the red brigades .
it was a psychiatrist . he loved sailing .
he was a really keen sailor . and he had this beautiful boat .
and he told me that the best time of his life was when he was a member of the red brigades
and he went sailing , every summer , back and forth from lebanon , where he would pick up soviet weapons from the plo , and then carry them all the way to sardinia where the other arms organization from europe would go and take their share of the arms .
for that service the red brigades were actually paid a fee , which went to fund their organization .
so , because i am a trained economist and i think in economic terms , all of the sudden i thought , maybe there is something here .
maybe there is a link , a commercial link , between one organization and another one .
but it was only when i interviewed mario moretti , the head of the red brigades , the man who kidnapped and killed aldo moro , italian former prime minister , that i finally realized that terrorism is actually business .
i was having lunch with him in a high-security prison in italy . and as we were eating , i had the distinct feeling that i was back in the city of london , having lunch with a fellow banker or an economist .
this guy thought in the same way i did .
so , i decided that i wanted to investigate the economics of terrorism .
naturally , nobody wanted to fund my research .
in fact , i think many people thought that i was a bit crazy .
you know , that woman that goes around to foundations asking for money , thinking about the economics of terrorism .
so , in the end , i took a decision that , in retrospect , did change my life .
i sold my company , and funded the research myself .
and what i discovered is this parallel reality , another international economic system , which runs parallel to our own , which has been created by arms organizations since the end of world war ii .
and what is even more shocking is that this system has followed , step by step , the evolution of our own system , of our western capitalism .
and there are three main stages .
the first one is the state sponsor of terrorism .
the second one is the privatization of terrorism .
and the third , of course , is the globalization of terrorism .
so , state sponsor of terrorism , feature of the cold war . this is when the two superpowers were fighting a war by proxy , along the periphery of the sphere of influence , fully funding arms organizations .
a mix of legal and illegal activities is used .
so , the link between crime and terror is established very early on .
and here is the best example , the contras in nicaragua , created by the cia , legally funded by the u.s. congress , illegally funded by the reagan administration via covert operation , for example , the iran-contra affair .
then comes the late 1970s , early ' 80s , and some groups successfully carry out the privatization of terrorism .
so , they gain independence from the sponsor , and start funding themselves .
now , again we see a mix of legal and illegal activities .
so , arafat used to get a percentage of the smuggling of hashish from bekaa valley , which is the valley between lebanon and syria .
and the ira , which control the private transportation system in northern ireland , did exactly the same thing .
so , every single time that somebody got into a taxi in belfast without knowing , actually , was funding the ira .
but the great change came , of course , with globalization and deregulation .
this is when arms organization were able to link up , also financially , with each other .
but above all , they started to do serious business with the world of crime .
and together they money-laundered their dirty business through the same channel .
this is when we see the birth of the transnational arms organization al qaeda .
this is an organization that can raise money across border .
but also that is able to carry out attacks in more than one country .
now , deregulation also brought back rogue economics .
so what is rogue economics ?
rogue economics is a force which is constantly lurking in the background of history .
it comes back at times of great transformation , globalization being one of those transformations .
it is at this times in which politics actually loses control of the economy , and the economy becomes a rogue force working against us .
it has happened before in history .
it has happened with the fall of the roman empire .
it has happened with industrial revolution .
and it actually happened again , with the fall of the berlin wall .
now , i calculated how big was this international economic system composed by crime , terror , and illegal economy , before 9-11 .
and it is a staggering 1.5 trillion dollars .
it is trillions , it 's not billions .
this is about twice the gdp of the united kingdom , soon will be more , considering where this country is going .
now , until 9-11 , the bulk of all this money flew into the u.s. economy because the bulk of the money was denominated in u.s. dollars
and the money laundering was taking place inside the united states .
the entry point , of course , of most of this money were the off-shore facilities .
so , this was a vital injection of cash into the u.s. economy .
now , when i went to look at the figures of the u.s. money supply ,
the u.s. money supply is the amount of dollars that the federal reserve prints every year in order to satisfy the increase in the demand for dollars , which , of course , reflects the growth of the economy .
so , when i went to look at those figures , i noted that since the late 1960s a growing number of these dollars was actually leaving the united states , never to come back .
these were money taken out in suitcases or in containers , in cash of course .
these were money taken out by criminals and money launderers .
these were money taken out to fund the growth of the terror , illegal and criminal economy .
so , you see , what is the relationship ?
the united states actually is a country that is the reserve currency of the world .
what does it mean ? that means that it has a privilege that other countries do not have .
it can borrow against the total amount of dollars in circulation in the world .
this privilege is called seigniorage .
no other country can do that .
all the other countries , for example the united kingdom , can borrow only against the amount of money in circulation inside its own borders .
so , here is the implication of the relationship between the worlds of crime , terror , and illegal economy , and our economy .
the u.s. in the 1990s was borrowing against the growth of the terror , illegal and criminal economy .
this is how close we are with this world .
now , this situation changed , of course , after 9-11 , because george bush launched the war on terror .
part of the war on terror was the introduction of the patriot act .
now , many of you know that the patriot act is a legislation that greatly reduces the liberties of americans in order to protect them against terrorism .
but there is a section of the patriot act which refers specifically to finance .
and it is , in fact , an anti-money-laundering legislation .
what the patriot act did was to prohibit u.s. bank , and u.s.-registered foreign banks from doing any businesses with off-shore facilities .
it closed that door between the money laundering in dollars , and the u.s. economy .
it also gave the u.s. monetary authorities the right to monitor any dollar transaction taking place anywhere in the world .
now , you can imagine what was the reaction of the international finance and banking .
all the bankers said to their clients , " get out of the dollars and go and invest somewhere else . "
now , the euro was a newly born currency of great opportunity for business , and , of course , for investment .
and this is what people did .
nobody wants the u.s. monetary authority to check their relationship , to monitor their relationship with their clientele .
the same thing happened , of course , in the world of crime and terror .
people simply moved their money-laundering activities away from the united states into europe .
why did this happen ? this happened because the patriot act was a unilateral legislation .
it was introduced only in the united states .
and it was introduced only for the u.s. dollars .
in europe , a similar legislation was not introduced .
so , within six months europe became the epicenter of the money-laundering activities of the world .
so , this is how incredible are the relationship between the world of crime and the world of terror , and our own life .
so , why did i tell you this story ?
i told you this story because you must understand that there is a world that goes well beyond the headlines of the newspapers , including the personal relationship that you have with friends and family .
you got to question everything that is told to you , including what i just told you today .
this is the only way for you to step into the dark side , and have a look at it .
and believe me , it 's going to be scary .
it 's going to be frightful , but it 's going to enlighten you .
and , above all , it 's not going to be boring .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / roz _ savage _ why _ i _ m _ rowing _ across _ the _ pacific.html
five years ago , roz savage quit her high-powered london job to become an ocean rower . she 's crossed the atlantic solo , and just started the third leg of a pacific solo row , the first for a woman . why does she do it ? hear her reasons , both deeply personal and urgently activist .
adventure , entertainment , global issues , oceans
844
roz savage : why i 'm rowing across the pacific
hi , my name is roz savage and i row across oceans .
four years ago , i rowed solo across the atlantic , and since then , i 've done two out of three stages across the pacific , from san francisco to hawaii and from hawaii to kiribati .
and tomorrow , i 'll be leaving this boat to fly back to kiribati to continue with the third and final stage of my row across the pacific .
cumulatively , i will have rowed over 8,000 miles , taken over three million oar strokes and spent more than 312 days alone on the ocean on a 23 foot rowboat .
this has given me a very special relationship with the ocean .
we have a bit of a love / hate thing going on .
i feel a bit about it like i did about a very strict math teacher that i once had at school .
i didn 't always like her , but i did respect her ,
and she taught me a heck of a lot .
so today i 'd like to share with you some of my ocean adventures and tell you a little bit about what they 've taught me , and how i think we can maybe take some of those lessons and apply them to this environmental challenge that we face right now .
now , some of you might be thinking , " hold on a minute . she doesn 't look very much like an ocean rower .
isn 't she meant to be about this tall and about this wide and maybe look a bit more like these guys ? "
you 'll notice , they 've all got something that i don 't .
well , i don 't know what you 're thinking , but i 'm talking about the beards .
and no matter how long i 've spent on the ocean , i haven 't yet managed to muster a decent beard ,
and i hope that it remains that way .
for a long time , i didn 't believe that i could have a big adventure .
the story that i told myself was that adventurers looked like this .
i didn 't look the part .
i thought there were them and there were us , and i was not one of them .
so for 11 years , i conformed .
i did what people from my kind of background were supposed to do .
i was working in an office in london as a management consultant .
and i think i knew from day one that it wasn 't the right job for me .
but that kind of conditioning just kept me there for so many years , until i reached my mid-30s and i thought , " you know , i 'm not getting any younger .
i feel like i 've got a purpose in this life , and i don 't know what it is , but i 'm pretty certain that management consultancy is not it .
so , fast forward a few years .
i 'd gone through some changes .
to try and answer that question of , " what am i supposed to be doing with my life ? "
i sat down one day and wrote two versions of my own obituary , the one that i wanted , a life of adventure , and the one that i was actually heading for which was a nice , normal , pleasant life , but it wasn 't where i wanted to be by the end of my life .
i wanted to live a life that i could be proud of .
and i remember looking at these two versions of my obituary and thinking , " oh boy , i 'm on totally the wrong track here .
if i carry on living as i am now , i 'm just not going to end up where i want to be in five years , or 10 years , or at the end of my life . "
i made a few changes , let go of some loose trappings of my old life , and through a bit of a leap of logic , decided to row across the atlantic ocean .
the atlantic rowing race runs from the canaries to antigua ,
it 's about 3,000 miles ,
and it turned out to be the hardest thing i had ever done .
sure , i had wanted to get outside of my comfort zone , but what i 'd sort of failed to notice was that getting out of your comfort zone is , by definition , extremely uncomfortable .
and my timing was not great either :
2005 , when i did the atlantic , was the year of hurricane katrina .
there were more tropical storms in the north atlantic than ever before , since records began .
and pretty early on , those storms started making their presence known .
all four of my oars broke before i reached halfway across .
oars are not supposed to look like this .
but what can you do ? you 're in the middle of the ocean . oars are your only means of propulsion .
so i just had to look around the boat and figure out what i was going to use to fix up these oars so that i could carry on .
so i found a boat hook and my trusty duct tape and splintered the boat hook to the oars to reinforce it .
then , when that gave out , i sawed the wheel axles off my spare rowing seat and used those .
and then when those gave out , i cannibalized one of the broken oars .
i 'd never been very good at fixing stuff when i was living my old life ,
but it 's amazing how resourceful you can become when you 're in the middle of the ocean and there 's only one way to get to the other side .
and the oars kind of became a symbol of just in how many ways i went beyond what i thought were my limits .
i suffered from tendinitis on my shoulders and saltwater sores on my bottom .
i really struggled psychologically , totally overwhelmed by the scale of the challenge , realizing that , if i carried on moving at two miles an hour , 3,000 miles was going to take me a very , very long time .
there were so many times when i thought i 'd hit that limit , but had no choice but to just carry on and try and figure out how i was going to get to the other side without driving myself crazy .
and eventually after 103 days at sea , i arrived in antigua .
i don 't think i 've ever felt so happy in my entire life .
it was a bit like finishing a marathon and getting out of solitary confinement and winning an oscar all rolled into one .
i was euphoric .
and to see all the people coming out to greet me and standing along the cliff tops and clapping and cheering , i just felt like a movie star .
it was absolutely wonderful .
and i really learned then that , the bigger the challenge , the bigger the sense of achievement when you get to the end of it .
so this might be a good moment to take a quick time-out to answer a few faqs about ocean rowing that might be going through your mind .
number one that i get asked : what do you eat ?
a few freeze-dried meals , but mostly i try and eat much more unprocessed foods .
so i grow my own beansprouts .
i eat fruits and nut bars , a lot of nuts . and generally arrive about 30 pounds lighter at the other end .
question number two : how do you sleep ?
with my eyes shut . ha-ha .
i suppose what you mean is : what happens to the boat while i 'm sleeping ?
well , i plan my route so that i 'm drifting with the winds and the currents while i 'm sleeping .
on a good night , i think my best ever was 11 miles in the right direction .
worst ever , 13 miles in the wrong direction .
that 's a bad day at the office .
what do i wear ?
mostly , a baseball cap , rowing gloves and a smile -- or a frown , depending on whether i went backwards overnight --
and lots of sun lotion .
do i have a chase boat ?
no i don 't . i 'm totally self-supporting out there .
i don 't see anybody for the whole time that i 'm at sea , generally .
and finally : am i crazy ?
well , i leave that one up to you to judge .
so , how do you top rowing across the atlantic ?
well , naturally , you decide to row across the pacific .
well , i thought the atlantic was big , but the pacific is really , really big .
i think we tend to do it a little bit of a disservice in our usual maps . i don 't know for sure that the brits invented this particular view of the world , but i suspect we might have done so : we are right in the middle ,
and we 've cut the pacific in half and flung it to the far corners of the world . whereas if you look in google earth , this is how the pacific looks .
it pretty much covers half the planet .
you can just see a little bit of north america up here and a sliver of australia down there .
it is really big --
65 million square miles --
and to row in a straight line across it would be about 8,000 miles .
unfortunately , ocean rowboats very rarely go in a straight line .
by the time i get to australia , if i get to australia , i will have rowed probably nine or 10,000 miles in all .
so , because nobody in their straight mind would row straight past hawaii without dropping in , i decided to cut this very big undertaking into three segments .
the first attempt didn 't go so well .
in 2007 , i did a rather involuntary capsize drill three times in 24 hours .
a bit like being in a washing machine .
boat got a bit dinged up , so did i .
i blogged about it . unfortunately , somebody with a bit of a hero complex decided that this damsel was in distress and needed saving .
the first i knew about this was when the coast guard plane turned up overhead .
i tried to tell them to go away .
we had a bit of a battle of wills .
i lost and got airlifted .
awful , really awful .
it was one of the worst feelings of my life ,
as i was lifted up on that winch line into the helicopter and looked down at my trusty little boat rolling around in the 20 foot waves and wondering if i would ever see her again .
so i had to launch a very expensive salvage operation and then wait another nine months before i could get back out onto the ocean again .
but what do you do ?
fall down nine times , get up 10 .
so , the following year , i set out and , fortunately , this time made it safely across to hawaii .
but it was not without misadventure .
my watermaker broke ,
only the most important piece of kit that i have on the boat .
powered by my solar panels , it sucks in saltwater and turns it into freshwater .
but it doesn 't react very well to being immersed in ocean , which is what happened to it .
fortunately , help was at hand .
there was another unusual boat out there at the same time , doing as i was doing , bringing awareness to the north pacific garbage patch , that area in the north pacific about twice the size of texas , with an estimated 3.5 million tons of trash in it , circulating at the center of that north pacific gyre .
so , to make the point , these guys had actually built their boat out of plastic trash , 15,000 empty water bottles latched together into two pontoons .
they were going very slowly .
partly , they 'd had a bit of a delay .
they 'd had to pull in at catalina island shortly after they left long beach because the lids of all the water bottles were coming undone , and they were starting to sink .
so they 'd had to pull in and do all the lids up .
but , as i was approaching the end of my water reserves , luckily , our courses were converging .
they were running out of food ; i was running out of water .
so we liaised by satellite phone and arranged to meet up .
and it took about a week for us to actually gradually converge .
i was doing a pathetically slow speed of about 1.3 knots , and they were doing only marginally less pathetic speed of about 1.4 :
it was like two snails in a mating dance .
but , eventually , we did manage to meet up and joel hopped overboard , caught us a beautiful , big mahi-mahi , which was the best food i 'd had in , ooh , at least three months .
fortunately , the one that he caught that day was better than this one they caught a few weeks earlier .
when they opened this one up , they found its stomach was full of plastic .
and this is really bad news because plastic is not an inert substance .
it leaches out chemicals into the flesh of the poor critter that ate it , and then we come along and eat that poor critter , and we get some of the toxins accumulating in our bodies as well .
so there are very real implications for human health .
i eventually made it to hawaii still alive .
and , the following year , set out on the second stage of the pacific , from hawaii down to tarawa .
and you 'll notice something about tarawa ; it is very low-lying .
it 's that little green sliver on the horizon ,
which makes them very nervous about rising oceans .
this is big trouble for these guys .
they 've got no points of land more than about six feet above sea level .
and also , as an increase in extreme weather events due to climate change , they 're expecting more waves to come in over the fringing reef , which will contaminate their fresh water supply .
i had a meeting with the president there , who told me about his exit strategy for his country .
he expects that within the next 50 years , the 100,000 people that live there will have to relocate to new zealand or australia .
and that made me think about how would i feel if britain was going to disappear under the waves ;
if the places where i 'd been born and gone to school and got married , if all those places were just going to disappear forever . how , literally , ungrounded that would make me feel .
very shortly , i 'll be setting out to try and get to australia , and if i 'm successful , i 'll be the first woman ever to row solo all the way across the pacific .
and i try to use this to bring awareness to these environmental issues , to bring a human face to the ocean .
if the atlantic was about my inner journey , discovering my own capabilities , maybe the pacific has been about my outer journey , figuring out how i can use my interesting career choice to be of service to the world , and to take some of those things that i 've learned out there and apply them to the situation that humankind now finds itself in .
i think there are probably three key points here .
the first one is about the stories that we tell ourselves .
for so long , i told myself that i couldn 't have an adventure because i wasn 't six foot tall and athletic and bearded .
and then that story changed .
i found out that people had rowed across oceans .
i even met one of them and she was just about my size .
so even though i didn 't grow any taller , i didn 't sprout a beard , something had changed : my interior dialogue had changed .
at the moment , the story that we collectively tell ourselves is that we need all this stuff , that we need oil .
but what about if we just change that story ?
we do have alternatives ,
and we have the power of free will to choose those alternatives , those sustainable ones , to create a greener future .
the second point is about the accumulation of tiny actions .
we might think that anything that we do as an individual is just a drop in the ocean , that it can 't really make a difference .
but it does . generally , we haven 't got ourselves into this mess through big disasters .
yes , there have been the exxon valdezes and the chernobyls , but mostly it 's been an accumulation of bad decisions by billions of individuals , day after day and year after year .
and , by the same token , we can turn that tide .
we can start making better , wiser , more sustainable decisions .
and when we do that , we 're not just one person .
anything that we do spreads ripples .
other people will see if you 're in the supermarket line and you pull out your reusable grocery bag .
maybe if we all start doing this , we can make it socially unacceptable to say yes to plastic in the checkout line .
that 's just one example .
this is a world-wide community .
the other point : it 's about taking responsibility .
for so much of my life , i wanted something else to make me happy .
i thought if i had the right house or the right car or the right man in my life , then i could be happy .
but when i wrote that obituary exercise , i actually grew up a little bit in that moment and realized that i needed to create my own future .
i couldn 't just wait passively for happiness to come and find me .
and i suppose i 'm a selfish environmentalist . i plan on being around for a long time , and when i 'm 90 years old , i want to be happy and healthy .
and it 's very difficult to be happy on a planet that 's racked with famine and drought .
it 's very difficult to be healthy on a planet where we 've poisoned the earth and the sea and the air .
so , shortly , i 'm going to be launching a new initiative called eco-heroes .
and the idea here is that all our eco-heroes will log at least one green deed every day .
it 's meant to be a bit of a game .
we 're going to make an iphone app out of it .
we just want to try and create that awareness because , sure , changing a light bulb isn 't going to change the world , but that attitude , that awareness that leads you to change the light bulb or take your reusable coffee mug , that is what could change the world .
i really believe that we stand at a very important point in history .
we have a choice . we 've been blessed , or cursed , with free will .
we can choose a greener future ,
and we can get there if we all pull together to take it one stroke at a time .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eddi _ reader _ sings _ about _ what _ you _ ve _ got.html
singer / songwriter eddi reader performs " what you do with what you 've got , " a meditation on a very ted theme : how to use your gifts and talents to make a difference . with thomas dolby on piano .
featured , arts , composing , entertainment , guitar , music , performance art , piano , potential , short talk , vocals
109
eddi reader on " what you 've got "
this song is one of thomas ' favorites , called " what you do with what you 've got . "
 you must know someone like him   he was tall and strong and lean   with a body like a greyhound   and a mind so sharp and keen   but his heart , just like laurel   grew twisted around itself   till almost everything he did   brought pain to someone else   it 's not just what you 're born with   it 's what you choose to bear   it 's not how big your share is   it 's how much you can share   it 's not the fights you dreamed of   it 's those you really fought   it 's not what you 've been given   it 's what you do with what you 've got   what 's the use of two strong legs   if you only run away ?   and what 's the use of the finest voice   if you 've nothing good to say ?   what 's the use of strength and muscle   if you only push and shove ?   and what 's the use of two good ears   if you can 't hear those you love ?   what 's the use of two strong legs   if you only run away ?   and what 's the use of the finest voice   if you 've nothing good to say ?   what 's the use of strength and muscle   if you only push and shove ?   and what 's the use of two good ears   if you can 't hear those you love ?   between those who use their neighbors   and those who use the cane   between those in constant power   and those in constant pain   between those who run to glory   and those who cannot run   tell me which ones are the cripples   and which ones touch the sun   which ones touch the sun   which ones touch the sun 
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / reed _ kroloff _ on _ modern _ and _ romantic _ architecture.html
reed kroloff gives us a new lens for judging new architecture : is it modern , or is it romantic ? look for glorious images from two leading practices -- and a blistering critique of the 9 / 11 planning process .
architecture , art , business , design , humor
318
reed kroloff on modern and romantic architecture
to be new at ted -- it 's like being the last high-school virgin .
you know that all of the cool people are -- they 're doing it .
and you 're on the outside , you 're at home . you 're like the raspyni brothers , where you 've got your balls in cold water . and -- -- you just play with your fingers all day . and then you get invited .
and you 're on the inside , and it 's everything you hoped it would be .
it 's exciting and there 's music playing all of the time and then suddenly it 's over . and it 's only taken five minutes .
and you want to go back and do it again . but i really appreciate being here . and thank you , chris , and also , thank you , deborah patton , for making this possible .
so anyway , today we 'll talk about architecture a little bit , within the subject of creation and optimism .
and if you put creation and optimism together , you 've got two choices that you can talk about .
you can talk about creationism -- which i think wouldn 't go down well with this audience , at least not from a view where you were a proponent of it -- or you can talk about optimisations , spelled the british way , with an s , instead of a z .
and i think that 's what i 'd like to talk about today .
but any kind of conversation about architecture -- which is , in fact , what you were just talking about , what was going on here , setting up ted , small-scale architecture -- at the present time can 't really happen without a conversation about this , the world trade center , and what 's been going on there , what it means to us .
because if architecture is what i believe it to be , which is the built form of our cultural ambitions , what do you do when presented with an opportunity to rectify a situation that represents somebody else 's cultural ambitions relative to us ? and our own opportunity to make something new there ?
this has been a really galvanizing issue for a long time .
i think that the world trade center in , rather an unfortunate way , brought architecture into focus in a way that i don 't think people had thought of in a long time , and made it a subject for common conversation .
i don 't remember , in my 20-year career of practicing and writing about architecture , a time when five people sat me down at a table and asked me very serious questions about zoning , fire exiting , safety concerns and whether carpet burns .
these are just not things we talked about very often .
and yet , now , it 's talked about all the time .
at the point where you can weaponize your buildings , you have to suddenly think about architecture in a very different way .
and so now we 're going to think about architecture in a very different way , we 're going to think about it like this .
how many of you saw usa today , today ? there it is . looks like that .
there 's the world trade center site , on the front cover .
they 've made a selection .
they 've chosen a project by daniel libeskind , the enfant terrible of the moment of architecture .
child-prodigy piano player , he started on the squeezebox , and moved to a little more serious issue , a bigger instrument , and now to an even larger instrument , upon which to work his particular brand of deconstructivist magic , as you see here .
he was one of six people who were invited to participate in this competition , after six previous firms struck out with things that were so stupid and banal that even the city of new york was forced to go , " oh , i 'm really sorry , we screwed up . "
right . can we do this again from the top , except use some people with a vague hint of talent , instead of just six utter boobs like we brought in last time , real estate hacks of the kind who usually plan our cities .
let 's bring in some real architects for a change .
and so we got this , or we had a choice of that . oh , stop clapping .
it 's too late . that is gone .
this was a scheme by a team called think , a new york-based team , and then there was that one , which was the libeskind scheme .
this one , this is going to be the new world trade center :
a giant hole in the ground with big buildings falling into it .
now , i don 't know what you think , but i think this is a pretty stupid decision , because what you 've done is just made a permanent memorial to destruction by making it look like the destruction is going to continue forever .
but that 's what we 're going to do .
but i want you to think about these things in terms of a kind of ongoing struggle that american architecture represents , and that these two things talk about very specifically .
and that is the wild divergence in how we choose our architects , in trying to decide whether we want architecture from the kind of technocratic solution to everything -- that there is a large , technical answer that can solve all problems , be they social , be they physical , be they chemical -- or something that 's more of a romantic solution .
now , i don 't mean romantic as in , this is a nice place to take someone on a date .
i mean romantic in the sense of , there are things larger and grander than us .
so , in the american tradition , the difference between the technocratic and the romantic , would be the difference between thomas jefferson 's cartesian grids spreading across the united states , that gives us basically the whole shape of every western state in the united states , as a really , truly , technocratic solution , a bowing to the -- in jefferson 's time -- current , popular philosophy of rationalism .
or the way we went to describe that later : manifest destiny .
now , which would you rather be ? a grid , or manifest destiny ?
manifest destiny .
it 's a big deal . it sounds big , it sounds important , it sounds solid . it sounds american . ballsy , serious , male .
and that kind of fight has gone on back and forth in architecture all the time .
i mean , it goes on in our private lives , too , every single day .
we all want to go out and buy an audi tt , don 't we ?
everyone here must own one , or at least they craved one the moment they saw one .
and then they hopped in it , turned the little electronic key , rather than the real key , zipped home on their new superhighway , and drove straight into a garage that looks like a tudor castle .
why ? why ? why do you want to do that ?
why do we all want to do that ? i even owned a tudor thing once myself .
it 's in our nature to go ricocheting back and forth between this technocratic solution and a larger , sort of more romantic image of where we are .
so we 're going to go straight into this .
can i have the lights off for a moment ?
i 'm going to talk about two architects very , very briefly that represent the current split , architecturally , between these two traditions of a technocratic or technological solution and a romantic solution .
and these are two of the top architectural practices in the united states today . one very young , one a little more mature .
this is the work of a firm called shop , and what you 're seeing here , is their isometric drawings of what will be a large-scale camera obscura in a public park .
does everybody know what a camera obscura is ?
yeah , it 's one of those giant camera lenses that takes a picture of the outside world -- it 's sort of a little movie , without any moving parts -- and projects it on a page , and you can see the world outside you as you walk around it .
this is just the outline of it , and you can see , does it look like a regular building ? no .
it 's actually non-orthogonal : it 's not up and down , square , rectangular , anything like that , that you 'd see in a normal shape of a building .
the computer revolution , the technocratic , technological revolution , has allowed us to jettison normal-shaped buildings , traditionally shaped buildings , in favor of non-orthogonal buildings such as this .
what 's interesting about it is not the shape .
what 's interesting about it is how it 's made . how it 's made .
a brand-new way to put buildings together , something called mass customization . no , it is not an oxymoron .
what makes the building expensive , in the traditional sense , is making individual parts custom , that you can 't do over and over again .
that 's why we all live in developer houses .
they all want to save money by building the same thing 500 times .
that 's because it 's cheaper .
mass customization works by an architect feeding into a computer , a program that says , manufacture these parts .
the computer then talks to a machine -- a computer-operated machine , a cad-cam machine -- that can make a zillion different changes , at a moment 's notice ,
because the computer is just a machine .
it doesn 't care . it 's manufacturing the parts .
it doesn 't see any excess cost . it doesn 't spend any extra time .
it 's not a laborer -- it 's simply an electronic lathe , so the parts can all be cut at the same time .
meanwhile , instead of sending someone working drawings , which are those huge sets of blueprints that you 've seen your whole life , what the architect can do is send a set of assembly instructions , like you used to get when you were a child , when you bought little models that said , " bolt a to b , and c to d. "
and so what the builder will get is every single individual part that has been custom manufactured off-site and delivered on a truck to the site , to that builder , and a set of these instruction manuals .
just simple " bolt a to b " and they will be able to put them together . here 's the little drawing that tells them how that works -- and that 's what will happen in the end .
you 're underneath it , looking up into the lens of the camera obscura .
lest you think this is all fiction , lest you think this is all fantasy , or romance , these same architects were asked to produce something for the central courtyard of ps1 , which is a museum in brooklyn , new york , as part of their young architects summer series .
and they said , well , it 's summer , what do you do ?
in the summer , you go to the beach .
and when you go to the beach , what do you get ? you get sand dunes .
so let 's make architectural sand dunes and a beach cabana .
so they went out and they modeled a computer model of a sand dune .
they took photographs , they fed the photographs into their computer program , and that computer program shaped a sand dune and then took that sand dune shape and turned it into -- at their instructions , using standard software with slight modifications -- a set of instructions for pieces of wood .
and those are the pieces of wood . those are the instructions .
these are the pieces , and here 's a little of that blown up .
what you can see is there 's about six different colors , and each color represents a type of wood to be cut , a piece of wood to be cut .
all of which were delivered by flat bed , on a truck , and hand assembled in 48 hours by a team of eight people , only one of whom had ever seen the plans before .
only one of whom had ever seen the plans before .
and here comes dune-scape , coming up out of the courtyard , and there it is fully built .
there are only 16 different pieces of wood ,
only 16 different assembly parts here .
looks like a beautiful piano sounding board on the inside .
it has its own built-in swimming pool , very , very cool .
it 's a great place for parties -- it was , it was only up for six weeks . it 's got little dressing rooms and cabanas , where lots of interesting things went on , all summer long .
now , lest you think that this is only for the light at heart , or just temporary installations , this is the same firm working at the world trade center , replacing the bridge that used to go across west street , that very important pedestrian connection between the city of new york and the redevelopment of the west side .
they were asked to design , replace that bridge in six weeks , building it , including all of the parts , manufactured .
and they were able to do it . that was their design , using that same computer modeling system and only five or six really different kinds of parts , a couple of struts , like this , some exterior cladding material and a very simple framing system that was all manufactured off-site and delivered by truck .
they were able to create that .
they were able to create something wonderful .
they 're now building a 16-story building on the side of new york , using the same technology .
here we 're going to walk across the bridge at night . it 's self-lit , you don 't need any overhead lighting , so the neighbors don 't complain about metal-halide lighting in their face .
here it is going across . and there , down the other side , and you get the same kind of grandeur .
now , let me show you , quickly , the opposite , if i may .
woo , pretty , huh . this is the other side of the coin .
this is the work of david rockwell from new york city , whose work you can see out here today .
the current king of the romantics , who approaches his work in a very different fashion .
it 's not to create a technological solution , it 's to seduce you into something that you can do , into something that will please you , something that will lift your spirits , something that will make you feel as if are in another world -- such as his nobu restaurant in new york , which is supposed to take you from the clutter of new york city to the simplicity of japan and the elegance of japanese tradition .
" when it 's all said and done , it 's got to look like seaweed , " said the owner .
or his restaurant , pod , in philadelphia , pennsylvania .
i want you to know the room you 're looking at is stark white .
every single surface of this restaurant is white .
the reason it has so much color is that it changes using lighting .
it 's all about sensuality . it 's all about transforming .
watch this -- i 'm not touching any buttons , ladies and gentlemen .
this is happening by itself .
it transforms through the magic of lighting .
it 's all about sensuality . it 's all about touch .
rosa mexicano restaurant , where he transports us to the shores of acapulco , up on the upper west side , with this wall of cliff divers who -- there you go , like that .
let 's see it one more time .
okay , just to make sure that you 've enjoyed it .
and finally , it 's about comfort , it 's about making you feel good in places that you wouldn 't have felt good before .
it 's about bringing nature to the inside .
in the guardian tower of new york , converted to a w union square -- i 'm sorry i 'm rushing -- where we had to bring in the best horticulturists in the world to make sure that the interior of this dragged the garden space of the court garden of the union square into the building itself .
it 's about stimulation .
this is a wine-buying experience simplified by color and taste . fizzy , fresh , soft , luscious , juicy , smooth , big and sweet wines , all explained to you by color and texture on the wall . and finally , it 's about entertainment , as in his headquarters for the cirque du soleil , orlando , florida , where you 're asked to enter the greek theater , look under the tent and join the magic world of cirque du soleil .
and i think i 'll probably leave it at that . thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eddi _ reader _ sings _ kiteflyer _ s _ hill.html
singer / songwriter eddi reader performs " kiteflyer 's hill , " a tender look back at a lost love . with thomas dolby on piano .
featured , arts , composing , entertainment , guitar , memory , music , performance , piano , short talk
110
eddi reader sings " kiteflyer 's hill "
this is about a place in london called kiteflyer 's hill where i used to go and spend hours going " when is he coming back ? when is he coming back ? "
so this is another one dedicated to that guy ...
who i 've got over .
but this is " kiteflyer 's hill . "
it 's a beautiful song written by a guy called martin evan , actually , for me .
boo hewerdine , thomas dolby ,
thank you very much for inviting me . it 's been a blessing singing for you .
thank you very much .
 do you remember when we used to go   up to kiteflyer 's hill ?   those summer nights , so still   with all of the city beneath us   and all of our lives ahead   before cruel and foolish words   were cruelly and foolishly said   some nights i think of you   and then i go up   on kiteflyer 's hill   wrapped up against the winter chill   and somewhere in the city beneath me   you lie asleep in your bed   and i wonder if ever just briefly   do i creep in your dreams now and then   where are you now ?   my wild summer love   where are you now ?   have the years been kind ?   and do you think of me sometimes   up on kiteflyer 's hill ?   oh , i pray you one day will   we won 't say a word   we won 't need them   sometimes silence is best   we 'll just stand in the still of the evening   and whisper farewell to loneliness   where are you now ?   my wild summer love   where are you now ?   do you think of me sometimes ?   and do you ever make that climb ?   where are you now ?   my wild summer love   where are you now ?   have the years been kind ?   and do you ever make that climb   up on kiteflyer 's hill ? kiteflyer 's ...   [ french ]   where are you ? where are you now ?   where are you now ?   kiteflyer 's ...  gracias . thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / ravin _ agrawal _ 10 _ young _ indian _ artists _ to _ watch.html
collector ravin agrawal delivers a glowing introduction to 10 of india 's most exciting young contemporary artists . working in a variety of media , each draws on their local culture for inspiration .
asia , art , arts , design , future
743
ravin agrawal : 10 young indian artists to watch
right now is the most exciting time to see new indian art .
contemporary artists in india are having a conversation with the world like never before .
i thought it might be interesting , even for the many long-time collectors here with us at ted , local collectors , to have an outside view of 10 young indian artists i wish everyone at ted to know .
the first is bharti kher .
the central motif of bharti 's practice is the ready-made store-bought bindi that untold millions of indian women apply to their foreheads , every day , in an act closely associated with the institution of marriage .
but originally the significance of the bindi is to symbolize the third eye between the spiritual world and the religious world .
bharti seeks to liberate this everyday cliche , as she calls it , by exploding it into something spectacular .
she also creates life-size fiberglass sculptures , often of animals , which she then completely covers in bindis , often with potent symbolism .
she says she first got started with 10 packets of bindis , and then wondered what she could do with 10 thousand .
our next artist , balasubramaniam , really stands at the crossroads of sculpture , painting and installation , working wonders with fiberglass .
since bala himself will be speaking at ted i won 't spend too much time on him here today , except to say that he really succeeds at making the invisible visible .
brooklyn-based chitra ganesh is known for her digital collages , using indian comic books called amar chitra kathas as her primary source material .
these comics are a fundamental way that children , especially in the diaspora , learn their religious and mythological folk tales .
i , for one , was steeped in these .
chitra basically remixes and re-titles these iconic images to tease out some of the sexual and gender politics embedded in these deeply influential comics .
and she uses this vocabulary in her installation work as well .
jitish kallat successfully practices across photography , sculpture , painting and installation .
as you can see , he 's heavily influenced by graffiti and street art , and his home city of mumbai is an ever-present element in his work .
he really captures that sense of density and energy which really characterizes modern urban bombay .
he also creates phantasmagoric sculptures made of bones from cast resin .
here he envisions the carcass of an autorickshaw he once witnessed burning in a riot .
this next artist , n.s. harsha , actually has a studio right here in mysore .
he 's putting a contemporary spin on the miniature tradition .
he creates these fine , delicate images which he then repeats on a massive scale .
he uses scale to more and more spectacular effect , whether on the roof of a temple in singapore , or in his increasingly ambitious installation work , here with 192 functioning sewing machines , fabricating the flags of every member of the united nations .
mumbai-based dhruvi acharya builds on her love of comic books and street art to comment on the roles and expectations of modern indian women .
she too mines the rich source material of amar chitra kathas , but in a very different way than chitra ganesh .
in this particular work , she actually strips out the images and leaves the actual text to reveal something previously unseen , and provocative .
raqib shaw is kolkata-born , kashmir-raised , and london-trained .
he too is reinventing the miniature tradition .
he creates these opulent tableaus inspired by hieronymus bosch , but also by the kashmiri textiles of his youth .
he actually applies metallic industrial paints to his work using porcupine quills to get this rich detailed effect .
i 'm kind of cheating with this next artist since raqs media collective are really three artists working together .
raqs are probably the foremost practitioners of multimedia art in india today , working across photography , video and installation .
they frequently explore themes of globalization and urbanization , and their home of delhi is a frequent element in their work .
here , they invite the viewer to analyze a crime looking at evidence and clues embedded in five narratives on these five different screens , in which the city itself may have been the culprit .
this next artist is probably the alpha male of contemporary indian art , subodh gupta .
he was first known for creating giant photo-realistic canvases , paintings of everyday objects , the stainless steel kitchen vessels and tiffin containers known to every indian .
he celebrates these local and mundane objects globally , and on a grander and grander scale , by incorporating them into ever more colossal sculptures and installations .
and finally number 10 , last and certainly not least , ranjani shettar , who lives and works here in the state of karnataka , creates ethereal sculptures and installations that really marry the organic to the industrial , and brings , like subodh , the local global .
these are actually wires wrapped in muslin and steeped in vegetable dye .
and she arranges them so that the viewer actually has to navigate through the space , and interact with the objects .
and light and shadow are a very important part of her work .
she also explores themes of consumerism , and the environment , such as in this work , where these basket-like objects look organic and woven , and are woven , but with the strips of steel , salvaged from cars that she found in a bangalore junkyard .
10 artists , six minutes , i know that was a lot to take in .
but i can only hope i 've whet your appetite to go out and see and learn more about the amazing things that are happening in art in india today .
thank you very much for looking and listening .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / al _ seckel _ says _ our _ brains _ are _ mis _ wired.html
al seckel , a cognitive neuroscientist , explores the perceptual illusions that fool our brains . loads of eye tricks help him prove that not only are we easily fooled , we kind of like it .
arts , brain , cognitive science , culture , design , illusion , psychology
78
al seckel says our brains are mis-wired
we 're going to talk -- my -- a new lecture , just for ted -- and i 'm going show you some illusions that we 've created for ted , and i 'm going to try to relate this to happiness . what i was thinking about with happiness is , what gives happiness -- or happiness , which i equate with joy in my particular area , and i think there 's something very fundamental . and i was thinking about this . and it 's in terms of both illusions and movies that we go see and jokes and magic shows is that there 's something about these things where our expectations are violated in some sort of pleasing way . you go see a movie . and it has an unexpected twist -- something that you didn 't expect -- and you find a joyful experience . you look at those sort of illusions in my book and it 's not as what you 'd expect . and there 's something joyful about it . and it 's the same thing with jokes and all these sorts of things . so , what i 'm going to try and do in my lecture is go a little bit further and see if i can violate your expectations in a pleasing way . i mean , sometimes expectations that are violated are not pleasant , but i 'm going to try to do it in a pleasant way , in a very primal way , so i can make the audience here happy .
so i 'm going to show you some ways that we can violate your expectations . first of all , i want to show you the particular illusion here . i want you first of all when it pops up on the screen to notice that the two holes are perpendicular to each other . these are all perceptual tricks . these are real objects that i 'm going to show you . now i 'm going to show you how it is done . i 've looped the film here so you can get a very interesting experience . i want you to see how this illusion is constructed , and it 's going to rotate so you see that it 's inside out . now watch , as it rotates back , how quickly your perception snaps . ok now .
watch it as it rotates back again . and this is a very bright audience , all right ? see if you can stop it from happening , even though you know 100 percent it 's true that -- bam ! you can 't undo it . what does that tell you about yourselves ? we 're going to do it again . no doubt about it . see if you can stop it from happening . no . it 's difficult .
and we can violate your expectations in a whole variety of ways about representation , about shape , about color and so forth and it 's very primal . and
it 's an interesting question to ponder , why these things -- we find these things joyful . why would we find them joyful ? so , here 's something that
lionel did a while ago . i like these sort of
little things like this .
again , this is not an optical trick . this is what you would see . in other words , it 's not a camera cut . it 's a perceptual trick .
ok . we can violate your expectations about shape .
we can violate your expectations on representation -- what an image represents . what do you see here ?
how many of you here see dolphins ? raise your hand if you see dolphins . ok , those people who raised their hands , afterwards , the rest of the audience , go talk to them , all right ? actually , this is the best example of priming by experience that i know .
if you are a child under the age of 10 who haven 't been ruined yet , you will look at this image and see dolphins . now , some of you adults here are saying , " what dolphins ? what dolphins ? "
but in fact , if you reversed the figure ground -- in other words , the dark areas here -- i forgot to ask for a pointer -- but if you reverse it , you 'll see a whole series of little dolphins . by the way , if you 're also a student at caltech -- they also tend to just see the dolphins . it 's based on experience .
now , something like this can be used because this is after all talk about design , too . this was done by saatchi and saatchi , and they actually got away with this ad in australia . so , if you look at this ad for beer , all those people are in sort of provocative positions . but they got it passed , and actually won the clio awards , so it 's funny how you can do these things .
remember that sort of , um . this is the joke i did when the florida ballot was going around . you know , count the dots for gore ; count the dots for bush ; count ' em again ...
you can violate your expectations about experience . here is an outside water fountain that i created with some friends of mine , but you can stop the water in drops and -- actually make all the drops levitate . this is something we 're building for , you know , amusement parks and that kind of stuff .
now let 's take a static image . can you see this ?
do you see the middle section moving down and the outer sections moving up ? it 's completely static .
it 's a static image . how many people see this illusion ? it 's completely static .
right . now , when -- it 's interesting that when we look at an image we see , you know , color , depth , texture . and you can look at this whole scene and analyze it . you can see the woman is in closer than the wall and so forth . but the whole thing is actually flat . it 's painted . it 's trompe l 'oeil .
and it was such a good trompe l 'oeil that people got irritated when they tried to talk to the woman and she wouldn 't respond .
now , you can make design mistakes . like this building in new york . so that when you see it from this side , it looks like the balconies tilt up , and when you walk around to the other side it looks like the balconies go down . so there are cases where you have mistakes in design that incorporate illusions .
or , you take this particular un-retouched photograph . now , interestingly enough , i get a lot of emails from people who say , " is there any perceptual difference between males and females ? " and i really say , " no . " i mean , women can navigate through the world just as well as males can -- and why wouldn 't they ? however , this is the one illusion that women can consistently do better than males : in matching which head because they rely on fashion cues . they can match the hat .
okay , now getting to a part -- i want to show design in illusions . i believe that the first example of illusions being used purposely was by da vinci in this anamorphic image of an eye . so that when you saw from one little angle was like
this . and this little technique got popular in the 16th century and the 17th century to disguise hidden meanings , where you could flip the image and see it from one little point of view like this .
but these are early incorporations of illusions brought to -- sort of high point with hans holbein 's " ambassadors . " and hans holbein worked for henry viii . this was hung on a wall where you could walk down from the stair and you can see this hidden skull .
all right , now i 'm going to show you some designers who work with illusions to give that element of surprise . one of my favorites is scott kim . i worked with scott to create some illusions for ted that i hope you will enjoy . we have one here on ted and happiness .
ok now . arthur [ ganson ] hasn 't talked yet , but his is going to be a delightful talk and he has some of his really fantastic machines outside . and so , we -- scott created this wonderful tribute to arthur ganson .
well , there 's analog and digital . thought that was appropriate here .
and figure goes to ground . and for the musicians .
and of course , since happiness -- we want " joy to the world . " now , another great designer -- he 's very well known in japan -- shigeo fukuda . and he just builds some fantastic things . this is simply amazing . this is a pile of junk that when you view it from one particular angle , you see its reflection in the mirror as a perfect piano .
pianist transforms to violinist .
this is really wild . this assemblage of forks , knives and spoons and various cutlery , welded together . it gives a shadow of a motorcycle . you learn something in the sort of thing that i do , which is there are people out there with a lot of time on their hands .
ken knowlton does wonderful composite images , like creating jacques cousteau out of seashells -- un-retouched seashells , but just by rearranging
them . he did einstein out of dice because , after all , einstein said , " god does not play dice with the universe . " bert herzog out of un-retouched keyboards . will shortz , crossword puzzle . john
cederquist does these wonderful trompe l 'oeil cabinets .
now , i 'm going to skip ahead since i 'm sort of running
[ behind ] . i want to show you quickly what i 've
created , some new type of illusions . i 've done something with taking the pixar-type illusions . so you see these kids the same size here , running down the hall . the two table tops of the same size .
they 're looking out two directions at once . you
have a larger piece fitting in with a smaller . and
that 's something for you to think about , all
right ? so you see larger pieces fitting in within smaller pieces here . does everyone see that ? which is impossible . you can see the two kids are looking out simultaneously out of two different
directions at once . now can you believe these two table tops are the same size and shape ? they are .
so , if you measured them , they would be . and as i say , those two figures are identical in size and shape .
and it 's interesting , by doing this in this sort of rendered fashion , how much stronger the illusions are . any case , i hope this has brought you a little joy and happiness , and if you 're interested in seeing more cool effects , see me outside . i 'd be happy to show you lots of things .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eric _ berlow _ how _ complexity _ leads _ to _ simplicity.html
ecologist eric berlow doesn 't feel overwhelmed when faced with complex systems . he knows that more information can lead to a better , simpler solution . illustrating the tips and tricks for breaking down big issues , he distills an overwhelming infographic on u.s. strategy in afghanistan to a few elementary points .
complexity , design , science
1006
eric berlow : how complexity leads to simplicity
do you ever feel completely overwhelmed when you 're faced with a complex problem ?
well , i hope to change that in less than three minutes .
so , i hope to convince you that complex doesn 't always equal complicated .
so for me , a well-crafted baguette , fresh out of the oven , is complex , but a curry onion green olive poppy cheese bread is complicated .
i 'm an ecologist , and i study complexity . i love complexity .
and i study that in the natural world , the interconnectedness of species .
so here 's a food web , or a map of feeding links between species that live in alpine lakes in the mountains of california .
and this is what happens to that food web when it 's stocked with non-native fish that never lived there before .
all the grayed-out species disappear .
some are actually on the brink of extinction .
and lakes with fish have more mosquitoes , even though they eat them .
these effects were all unanticipated , and yet we 're discovering they 're predictable .
so i want to share with you a couple key insights about complexity we 're learning from studying nature that maybe are applicable to other problems .
first is the simple power of good visualization tools to help untangle complexity and just encourage you to ask questions you didn 't think of before .
for example , you could plot the flow of carbon through corporate supply chains in a corporate ecosystem , or the interconnections of habitat patches for endangered species in yosemite national park .
the next thing is that if you want to predict the effect of one species on another , if you focus only on that link , and then you black box the rest , it 's actually less predictable than if you step back , consider the entire system -- all the species , all the links -- and from that place , hone in on the sphere of influence that matters most .
and we 're discovering , with our research , that 's often very local to the node you care about within one or two degrees .
so the more you step back , embrace complexity , the better chance you have of finding simple answers , and it 's often different than the simple answer that you started with .
so let 's switch gears and look at a really complex problem courtesy of the u.s. government .
this is a diagram of the u.s. counterinsurgency strategy in afghanistan .
it was front page of the new york times a couple months ago . instantly ridiculed by the media for being so crazy complicated .
and the stated goal was to increase popular support for the afghan government .
clearly a complex problem , but is it complicated ?
well , when i saw this in the front page of the times , i thought , " great . finally something i can relate to .
i can sink my teeth into this . "
so let 's do it . so here we go for the first time ever , a world premiere view of this spaghetti diagram as an ordered network .
the circled node is the one we 're trying to influence -- popular support for the government .
and so now we can look one degrees , two degrees , three degrees away from that node and eliminate three-quarters of the diagram outside that sphere of influence .
within that sphere , most of those nodes are not actionable , like the harshness of the terrain , and a very small minority are actual military actions .
most are non-violent and they fall into two broad categories : active engagement with ethnic rivalries and religious beliefs and fair , transparent economic development and provisioning of services .
i don 't know about this , but this is what i can decipher from this diagram in 24 seconds .
when you see a diagram like this , i don 't want you to be afraid .
i want you to be excited . i want you to be relieved .
because simple answers may emerge .
we 're discovering in nature that simplicity often lies on the other side of complexity .
so for any problem , the more you can zoom out and embrace complexity , the better chance you have of zooming in on the simple details that matter most .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / margaret _ wertheim _ crochets _ the _ coral _ reef.html
margaret wertheim leads a project to re-create the creatures of the coral reefs using a crochet technique invented by a mathematician -- celebrating the amazements of the reef , and deep-diving into the hyperbolic geometry underlying coral creation .
art , design , math , oceans , science , visualizations
519
margaret wertheim : the beautiful math of coral
i 'm here today , as june said , to talk about a project that my twin sister and i have been doing for the past three and half years .
we 're crocheting a coral reef .
and it 's a project that we 've actually been now joined by hundreds of people around the world , who are doing it with us . indeed thousands of people have actually been involved in this project , in many of its different aspects .
it 's a project that now reaches across three continents ,
and its roots go into the fields of mathematics , marine biology , feminine handicraft and environmental activism .
it 's true .
it 's also a project that in a very beautiful way , the development of this has actually paralleled the evolution of life on earth , which is a particularly lovely thing to be saying right here in february 2009 -- which , as one of our previous speakers told us , is the 200th anniversary of the birth of charles darwin .
all of this i 'm going to get to in the next 18 minutes , i hope .
but let me first begin by showing you some pictures of what this thing looks like .
just to give you an idea of scale , that installation there is about six feet across ,
and the tallest models are about two or three feet high .
this is some more images of it .
that one on the right is about five feet high .
the work involves hundreds of different crochet models .
and indeed there are now thousands and thousands of models that people have contributed all over the world as part of this .
the totality of this project involves tens of thousands of hours of human labor -- 99 percent of it done by women .
on the right hand side , that bit there is part of an installation that is about 12 feet long .
my sister and i started this project in 2005 because in that year , at least in the science press , there was a lot of talk about global warming , and the effect that global warming was having on coral reefs .
corals are very delicate organisms ,
and they are devastated by any rise in sea temperatures .
it causes these vast bleaching events that are the first signs of corals of being sick .
and if the bleaching doesn 't go away -- if the temperatures don 't go down -- reefs start to die .
a great deal of this has been happening in the great barrier reef , particularly in coral reefs all over the world .
this is our invocation in crochet of a bleached reef .
we have a new organization together called the institute for figuring , which is a little organization we started to promote , to do projects about the aesthetic and poetic dimensions of science and mathematics .
and i went and put a little announcement up on our site , asking for people to join us in this enterprise .
to our surprise , one of the first people who called was the andy warhol museum .
and they said they were having an exhibition about artists ' response to global warming , and they 'd like our coral reef to be part of it .
i laughed and said , " well we 've only just started it , you can have a little bit of it . " so in 2007 we had an exhibition , a small exhibition of this crochet reef .
and then some people in chicago came along and they said , " in late 2007 , the theme of the chicago humanities festival is global warming . and we 've got this 3,000 square-foot gallery and we want you to fill it with your reef . " and i , naively by this stage , said , " oh , yes , sure . " now i say " naively " because actually my profession is as a science writer .
what i do is i write books about the cultural history of physics .
i 've written books about the history of space , the history of physics and religion , and i write articles for people like the new york times and the l.a. times .
so i had no idea what it meant to fill a 3,000 square-foot gallery .
so i said yes to this proposition .
and i went home , and i told my sister christine .
and she nearly had a fit because christine is a professor at one of l.a. ' s major art colleges , calarts , and she knew exactly what it meant to fill a 3,000 square-foot gallery .
she thought i 'd gone off my head .
but she went into crochet overdrive .
and to cut a long story short , eight months later we did fill the chicago cultural center 's 3,000 square foot gallery .
by this stage the project had taken on a viral dimension of its own , which got completely beyond us .
the people in chicago decided that as well as exhibiting our reefs , what they wanted to do was have the local people there make a reef .
so we went and taught the techniques . we did workshops and lectures . and the people in chicago made a reef of their own .
and it was exhibited alongside ours .
there were hundreds of people involved in that .
we got invited to do the whole thing in new york , and in london , and in los angeles .
in each of these cities , the local citizens , hundreds and hundreds of them , have made a reef .
and more and more people get involved in this , most of whom we 've never met .
so the whole thing has sort of morphed into this organic , ever-evolving creature , that 's actually gone way beyond christine and i .
now some of you are sitting here thinking , " what planet are these people on ?
why on earth are you crocheting a reef ?
woolenness and wetness aren 't exactly two concepts that go together .
why not chisel a coral reef out of marble ?
cast it in bronze . " but it turns out there is a very good reason why we are crocheting it because many organisms in coral reefs have a very particular kind of structure .
the frilly crenulated forms that you see in corals , and kelps , and sponges and nudibranchs , is a form of geometry known as hyperbolic geometry .
and the only way that mathematicians know how to model this structure is with crochet . it happens to be a fact .
it 's almost impossible to model this structure any other way ,
and it 's almost impossible to do it on computers .
so what is this hyperbolic geometry that corals and sea slugs embody ?
the next few minutes is , we 're all going to get raised up to the level of a sea slug .
this sort of geometry revolutionized mathematics when it was first discovered in the 19th century .
but not until 1997 did mathematicians actually understand how they could model it .
in 1997 a mathematician at cornell , daina taimina , made the discovery that this structure could actually be done in knitting and crochet .
the first one she did was knitting .
but you get too many stitches on the needle . so she quickly realized crochet was the better thing .
but what she was doing was actually making a model of a mathematical structure , that many mathematicians had thought it was actually impossible to model .
and indeed they thought that anything like this structure was impossible per se .
some of the best mathematicians spent hundreds of years trying to prove that this structure was impossible .
so what is this impossible hyperbolic structure ?
before hyperbolic geometry , mathematicians knew about two kinds of space : euclidean space , and spherical space .
and they have different properties .
mathematicians like to characterize things by being formalist .
you all have a sense of what a flat space is , euclidean space is .
but mathematicians formalize this in a particular way .
and what they do is , they do it through the concept of parallel lines .
so here we have a line and a point outside the line .
and euclid said , " how can i define parallel lines ?
i ask the question , how many lines can i draw through the point but never meet the original line ? " and you all know the answer . does someone want to shout it out ?
one . great . okay .
that 's our definition of a parallel line .
it 's a definition really of euclidean space .
but there is another possibility that you all know of : spherical space .
think of the surface of a sphere -- just like a beach ball , the surface of the earth .
i have a straight line on my spherical surface .
and i have a point outside the line . how many straight lines can i draw through the point but never meet the original line ?
what do we mean to talk about a straight line on a curved surface ?
now mathematicians have answered that question .
they 've understood there is a generalized concept of straightness , it 's called a geodesic .
and on the surface of a sphere , a straight line is the biggest possible circle you can draw .
so it 's like the equator or the lines of longitude .
so we ask the question again , " how many straight lines can i draw through the point , but never meet the original line ? " does someone want to guess ?
zero . very good .
now mathematicians thought that was the only alternative .
it 's a bit suspicious isn 't it ? there is two answers to the question so far , zero and one .
two answers ? there may possibly be a third alternative .
to a mathematician if there are two answers , and the first two are zero and one , there is another number that immediately suggests itself as the third alternative .
does anyone want to guess what it is ?
infinity . you all got it right . exactly .
there is , there 's a third alternative .
this is what it looks like .
there 's a straight line , and there is an infinite number of lines that go through the point and never meet the original line .
this is the drawing .
this nearly drove mathematicians bonkers because , like you , they 're sitting there feeling bamboozled . thinking , how can that be ? you 're cheating . the lines are curved .
but that 's only because i 'm projecting it onto a flat surface .
mathematicians for several hundred years had to really struggle with this .
how could they see this ?
what did it mean to actually have a physical model that looked like this ?
it 's a bit like this : imagine that we 'd only ever encountered euclidean space .
then our mathematicians come along and said , " there 's this thing called a sphere , and the lines come together at the north and south pole . " but you don 't know what a sphere looks like .
and someone that comes along and says , " look here 's a ball . " and you go , " ah ! i can see it . i can feel it . i can touch it . i can play with it . " and that 's exactly what happened when daina taimina in 1997 , showed that you could crochet models in hyperbolic space .
here is this diagram in crochetness .
i 've stitched euclid 's parallel postulate on to the surface .
and the lines look curved .
but look , i can prove to you that they 're straight because i can take any one of these lines , and i can fold along it .
and it 's a straight line .
so here , in wool , through a domestic feminine art , is the proof that the most famous postulate in mathematics is wrong .
and you can stitch all sorts of mathematical theorems onto these surfaces .
the discovery of hyperbolic space ushered in the field of mathematics that is called non-euclidean geometry .
and this is actually the field of mathematics that underlies general relativity and is actually ultimately going to show us about the shape of the universe .
so there is this direct line between feminine handicraft , euclid and general relativity .
now , i said that mathematicians thought that this was impossible .
here 's two creatures who 've never heard of euclid 's parallel postulate -- didn 't know it was impossible to violate , and they 're simply getting on with it .
they 've been doing it for hundreds of millions of years .
i once asked the mathematicians why it was that mathematicians thought this structure was impossible when sea slugs have been doing it since the silurian age .
their answer was interesting .
they said , " well i guess there aren 't that many mathematicians sitting around looking at sea slugs . " and that 's true . but it also goes deeper than that .
it also says a whole lot of things about what mathematicians thought mathematics was ,
what they thought it could and couldn 't do ,
what they thought it could and couldn 't represent .
even mathematicians , who in some sense are the freest of all thinkers , literally couldn 't see not only the sea slugs around them , but the lettuce on their plate -- because lettuces , and all those curly vegetables , they also are embodiments of hyperbolic geometry .
and so in some sense they literally , they had such a symbolic view of mathematics , they couldn 't actually see what was going on on the lettuce in front of them .
it turns out that the natural world is full of hyperbolic wonders .
and so , too , we 've discovered that there is an infinite taxonomy of crochet hyperbolic creatures .
we started out , chrissy and i and our contributors , doing the simple mathematically perfect models .
but we found that when we deviated from the specific setness of the mathematical code that underlies it -- the simple algorithm crochet three , increase one -- when we deviated from that and made embellishments to the code , the models immediately started to look more natural .
and all of our contributors , who are an amazing collection of people around the world , do their own embellishments .
as it were , we have this ever-evolving , crochet taxonomic tree of life .
just as the morphology and the complexity of life on earth is never ending , little embellishments and complexifications in the dna code lead to new things like giraffes , or orchids --
so too , do little embellishments in the crochet code lead to new and wondrous creatures in the evolutionary tree of crochet life .
so this project really has taken on this inner organic life of its own .
there is the totality of all the people who have come to it . and their individual visions , and their engagement with this mathematical mode .
we have these technologies . we use them .
but why ? what 's at stake here ? what does it matter ?
for chrissy and i , one of the things that 's important here is that these things suggest the importance and value of embodied knowledge .
we live in a society that completely tends to valorize symbolic forms of representation -- algebraic representations , equations , codes .
we live in a society that 's obsessed with presenting information in this way , teaching information in this way .
but through this sort of modality , crochet , other plastic forms of play -- people can be engaged with the most abstract , high-powered , theoretical ideas , the kinds of ideas that normally you have to go to university departments to study in higher mathematics ,
which is where i first learned about hyperbolic space .
but you can do it through playing with material objects .
one of the ways that we 've come to think about this is that what we 're trying to do with the institute for figuring and projects like this , we 're trying to have kindergarten for grown-ups .
and kindergarten was actually a very formalized system of education , established by a man named friedrich froebel , who was a crystallographer in the 19th century .
he believed that the crystal was the model for all kinds of representation .
he developed a radical alternative system of engaging the smallest children with the most abstract ideas through physical forms of play .
and he is worthy of an entire talk on his own right .
the value of education is something that froebel championed , through plastic modes of play .
we live in a society now where we have lots of think tanks , where great minds go to think about the world .
they write these great symbolic treatises called books , and papers , and op-ed articles .
we want to propose , chrissy and i , through the institute for figuring , another alternative way of doing things , which is the play tank .
and the play tank , like the think tank , is a place where people can go and engage with great ideas .
but what we want to propose , is that the highest levels of abstraction , things like mathematics , computing , logic , etc . -- all of this can be engaged with , not just through purely cerebral algebraic symbolic methods , but by literally , physically playing with ideas .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / vilayanur _ ramachandran _ on _ your _ mind.html
vilayanur ramachandran tells us what brain damage can reveal about the connection between celebral tissue and the mind , using three startling delusions as examples .
brain , consciousness , culture , illness , illusion , science , technology
184
vs ramachandran on your mind
well , as chris pointed out , i study the human brain , the functions and structure of the human brain .
and i just want you to think for a minute about what this entails .
here is this mass of jelly , three-pound mass of jelly you can hold in the palm of your hand , and it can contemplate the vastness of interstellar space .
it can contemplate the meaning of infinity and it can contemplate itself contemplating on the meaning of infinity .
and this peculiar recursive quality that we call self-awareness , which i think is the holy grail of neuroscience , of neurology , and hopefully , someday , we 'll understand how that happens .
ok , so how do you study this mysterious organ ?
i mean , you have 100 billion nerve cells , little wisps of protoplasm , interacting with each other , and from this activity emerges the whole spectrum of abilities that we call human nature and human consciousness .
how does this happen ?
well , there are many ways of approaching the functions of the human brain .
one approach , the one we use mainly , is to look at patients with sustained damage to a small region of the brain , where there 's been a genetic change in a small region of the brain .
what then happens is not an across-the-board reduction in all your mental capacities , a sort of blunting of your cognitive ability .
what you get is a highly selective loss of one function , with other functions being preserved intact , and this gives you some confidence in asserting that that part of the brain is somehow involved in mediating that function .
so you can then map function onto structure , and then find out what the circuitry 's doing to generate that particular function .
so that 's what we 're trying to do .
so let me give you a few striking examples of this .
in fact , i 'm giving you three examples , six minutes each , during this talk .
the first example is an extraordinary syndrome called capgras syndrome .
if you look at the first slide there , that 's the temporal lobes , frontal lobes , parietal lobes , ok -- the lobes that constitute the brain .
and if you look , tucked away inside the inner surface of the temporal lobes -- you can 't see it there -- is a little structure called the fusiform gyrus .
and that 's been called the face area in the brain , because when it 's damaged , you can no longer recognize people 's faces .
you can still recognize them from their voice and say , " oh yeah , that 's joe , " but you can 't look at their face and know who it is , right ?
you can 't even recognize yourself in the mirror .
i mean , you know it 's you because you wink and it winks , and you know it 's a mirror , but you don 't really recognize yourself as yourself .
ok . now that syndrome is well known as caused by damage to the fusiform gyrus .
but there 's another rare syndrome , so rare , in fact , that very few physicians have heard about it , not even neurologists .
this is called the capgras delusion ,
and that is a patient , who 's otherwise completely normal , has had a head injury , comes out of coma ,
otherwise completely normal , he looks at his mother and says , " this looks exactly like my mother , this woman , but she 's an impostor . she 's some other woman pretending to be my mother . " now , why does this happen ?
why would somebody -- and this person is perfectly lucid and intelligent in all other respects , but when he sees his mother , his delusion kicks in and says , it 's not mother .
now , the most common interpretation of this , which you find in all the psychiatry textbooks , is a freudian view , and that is that this chap -- and the same argument applies to women , by the way , but i 'll just talk about guys . when you 're a little baby , a young baby , you had a strong sexual attraction to your mother .
this is the so-called oedipus complex of freud .
i 'm not saying i believe this , but this is the standard freudian view .
and then , as you grow up , the cortex develops , and inhibits these latent sexual urges towards your mother .
thank god , or you would all be sexually aroused when you saw your mother .
and then what happens is , there 's a blow to your head , damaging the cortex , allowing these latent sexual urges to emerge , flaming to the surface , and suddenly and inexplicably you find yourself being sexually aroused by your mother .
and you say , " my god , if this is my mom , how come i 'm being sexually turned on ?
she 's some other woman . she 's an impostor . " it 's the only interpretation that makes sense to your damaged brain .
this has never made much sense to me , this argument .
it 's very ingenious , as all freudian arguments are --
-- but didn 't make much sense because i have seen the same delusion , a patient having the same delusion , about his pet poodle .
he 'll say , " doctor , this is not fifi . it looks exactly like fifi , but it 's some other dog . " right ?
now , you try using the freudian explanation there .
you 'll start talking about the latent bestiality in all humans , or some such thing , which is quite absurd , of course .
now , what 's really going on ?
so , to explain this curious disorder , we look at the structure and functions of the normal visual pathways in the brain .
normally , visual signals come in , into the eyeballs , go to the visual areas in the brain .
there are , in fact , 30 areas in the back of your brain concerned with just vision , and after processing all that , the message goes to a small structure called the fusiform gyrus , where you perceive faces .
there are neurons there that are sensitive to faces .
you can call it the face area of the brain , right ?
i talked about that earlier .
now , when that area 's damaged , you lose the ability to see faces , right ?
but from that area , the message cascades into a structure called the amygdala in the limbic system , the emotional core of the brain , and that structure , called the amygdala , gauges the emotional significance of what you 're looking at .
is it prey ? is it predator ? is it mate ?
or is it something absolutely trivial , like a piece of lint , or a piece of chalk , or a -- i don 't want to point to that , but --
or a shoe , or something like that ? ok ?
which you can completely ignore .
so if the amygdala is excited , and this is something important , the messages then cascade into the autonomic nervous system .
your heart starts beating faster . you start sweating to dissipate the heat that you 're going to create from muscular exertion .
and that 's fortunate , because we can put two electrodes on your palm and measure the change in skin resistance produced by sweating .
so i can determine , when you 're looking at something , whether you 're excited or whether you 're aroused , or not , ok ?
and i 'll get to that in a minute .
so my idea was , when this chap looks at an object , when he looks at his -- any object for that matter , it goes to the visual areas and , however , and it 's processed in the fusiform gyrus , and you recognize it as a pea plant , or a table , or your mother , for that matter , ok ?
and then the message cascades into the amygdala , and then goes down the autonomic nervous system .
but maybe , in this chap , that wire that goes from the amygdala to the limbic system , the emotional core of the brain , is cut by the accident .
so because the fusiform is intact , the chap can still recognize his mother , and says , " oh yeah , this looks like my mother . " but because the wire is cut to the emotional centers , he says , " but how come , if it 's my mother , i don 't experience a warmth ? " or terror , as the case may be ? right ?
and therefore , he says , " how do i account for this inexplicable lack of emotions ?
this can 't be my mother .
it 's some strange woman pretending to be my mother . " how do you test this ?
well , what you do is , if you take any one of you here , and put you in front of a screen , and measure your galvanic skin response , and show pictures on the screen , i can measure how you sweat when you see an object , like a table or an umbrella . of course , you don 't sweat .
if i show you a picture of a lion , or a tiger , or a pinup , you start sweating , right ?
and , believe it or not , if i show you a picture of your mother --
i 'm talking about normal people -- you start sweating .
you don 't even have to be jewish .
now , what happens if you show this patient ?
you take the patient and show him pictures on the screen and measure his galvanic skin response .
tables and chairs and lint , nothing happens , as in normal people , but when you show him a picture of his mother , the galvanic skin response is flat .
there 's no emotional reaction to his mother , because that wire going from the visual areas to the emotional centers is cut .
so his vision is normal because the visual areas are normal , his emotions are normal -- he 'll laugh , he 'll cry , so on and so forth -- but the wire from vision to emotions is cut and therefore he has this delusion that his mother is an impostor .
it 's a lovely example of the sort of thing we do : take a bizarre , seemingly incomprehensible , neural psychiatric syndrome and say that the standard freudian view is wrong , that , in fact , you can come up with a precise explanation in terms of the known neural anatomy of the brain .
by the way , if this patient then goes , and mother phones from an adjacent room -- phones him -- and he picks up the phone , and he says , " wow , mom , how are you ? where are you ? " there 's no delusion through the phone .
then , she approaches him after an hour , he says , " who are you ?
you look just like my mother . " ok ?
the reason is there 's a separate pathway going from the hearing centers in the brain to the emotional centers , and that 's not been cut by the accident .
so this explains why through the phone he recognizes his mother , no problem .
when he sees her in person , he says it 's an impostor .
ok , how is all this complex circuitry set up in the brain ?
is it nature , genes , or is it nurture ?
and we approach this problem by considering another curious syndrome called phantom limb .
and you all know what a phantom limb is .
when an arm is amputated , or a leg is amputated , for gangrene , or you lose it in war -- for example , in the iraq war , it 's now a serious problem -- you continue to vividly feel the presence of that missing arm , and that 's called a phantom arm or a phantom leg .
in fact , you can get a phantom with almost any part of the body .
believe it or not , even with internal viscera .
i 've had patients with the uterus removed -- hysterectomy -- who have a phantom uterus , including phantom menstrual cramps at the appropriate time of the month .
and in fact , one student asked me the other day , " do they get phantom pms ? " a subject ripe for scientific enquiry , but we haven 't pursued that .
ok , now the next question is , what can you learn about phantom limbs by doing experiments ?
one of the things we 've found was , about half the patients with phantom limbs claim that they can move the phantom .
it 'll pat his brother on the shoulder , it 'll answer the phone when it rings , it 'll wave goodbye .
these are very compelling , vivid sensations .
the patient 's not delusional .
he knows that the arm is not there , but , nevertheless , it 's a compelling sensory experience for the patient .
but however , about half the patients , this doesn 't happen .
the phantom limb -- they 'll say , " but doctor , the phantom limb is paralyzed .
it 's fixed in a clenched spasm and it 's excruciatingly painful .
if only i could move it , maybe the pain will be relieved . " now , why would a phantom limb be paralyzed ?
it sounds like an oxymoron .
but when we were looking at the case sheets , what we found was , these people with the paralyzed phantom limbs , the original arm was paralyzed because of the peripheral nerve injury .
the actual nerve supplying the arm was severed , was cut , by say , a motorcycle accident .
so the patient had an actual arm , which is painful , in a sling for a few months or a year , and then , in a misguided attempt to get rid of the pain in the arm , the surgeon amputates the arm , and then you get a phantom arm with the same pains , right ?
and this is a serious clinical problem .
patients become depressed .
some of them are driven to suicide , ok ?
so , how do you treat this syndrome ?
now , why do you get a paralyzed phantom limb ?
when i looked at the case sheet , i found that they had an actual arm , and the nerves supplying the arm had been cut , and the actual arm had been paralyzed , and lying in a sling for several months before the amputation , and this pain then gets carried over into the phantom itself .
why does this happen ?
when the arm was intact , but paralyzed , the brain sends commands to the arm , the front of the brain , saying , " move , " but it 's getting visual feedback saying , " no . " move . no . move . no . move . no .
and this gets wired into the circuitry of the brain ,
and we call this learned paralysis , ok ?
the brain learns , because of this hebbian , associative link , that the mere command to move the arm creates a sensation of a paralyzed arm . and then , when you 've amputated the arm , this learned paralysis carries over into your body image and into your phantom , ok ?
now , how do you help these patients ?
how do you unlearn the learned paralysis , so you can relieve him of this excruciating , clenching spasm of the phantom arm ?
well , we said , what if you now send the command to the phantom , but give him visual feedback that it 's obeying his command , right ?
maybe you can relieve the phantom pain , the phantom cramp .
how do you do that ? well , virtual reality .
but that costs millions of dollars .
so , i hit on a way of doing this for three dollars , but don 't tell my funding agencies .
ok ? what you do is you create what i call a mirror box .
you have a cardboard box with a mirror in the middle , and then you put the phantom -- so my first patient , derek , came in .
he had his arm amputated 10 years ago .
he had a brachial avulsion , so the nerves were cut and the arm was paralyzed , lying in a sling for a year , and then the arm was amputated .
he had a phantom arm , excruciatingly painful , and he couldn 't move it .
it was a paralyzed phantom arm .
so he came there , and i gave him a mirror like that , in a box , which i call a mirror box , right ?
and the patient puts his phantom left arm , which is clenched and in spasm , on the left side of the mirror , and the normal hand on the right side of the mirror , and makes the same posture , the clenched posture , and looks inside the mirror . and what does he experience ?
he looks at the phantom being resurrected , because he 's looking at the reflection of the normal arm in the mirror , and it looks like this phantom has been resurrected .
" now , " i said , " now , look , wiggle your phantom -- your real fingers , or move your real fingers while looking in the mirror . " he 's going to get the visual impression that the phantom is moving , right ?
that 's obvious , but the astonishing thing is , the patient then says , " oh my god , my phantom is moving again , and the pain , the clenching spasm , is relieved . " and remember , my first patient who came in -- -- thank you .
my first patient came in , and he looked in the mirror , and i said , " look at your reflection of your phantom . " and he started giggling , he says , " i can see my phantom . " but he 's not stupid . he knows it 's not real .
he knows it 's a mirror reflection , but it 's a vivid sensory experience .
now , i said , " move your normal hand and phantom . " he said , " oh , i can 't move my phantom . you know that . it 's painful . " i said , " move your normal hand . " and he says , " oh my god , my phantom is moving again . i don 't believe this !
and my pain is being relieved . " ok ?
and then i said , " close your eyes . " he closes his eyes .
" and move your normal hand . " " oh , nothing . it 's clenched again . " " ok , open your eyes . " " oh my god , oh my god , it 's moving again ! " so , he was like a kid in a candy store .
so , i said , ok , this proves my theory about learned paralysis
and the critical role of visual input ,
but i 'm not going to get a nobel prize for getting somebody to move his phantom limb .
it 's a completely useless ability , if you think about it .
but then i started realizing , maybe other kinds of paralysis that you see in neurology , like stroke , focal dystonias -- there may be a learned component to this , which you can overcome with the simple device of using a mirror .
so , i said , " look , derek " -- well , first of all , the guy can 't just go around carrying a mirror to alleviate his pain -- i said , " look , derek , take it home and practice with it for a week or two .
maybe , after a period of practice , you can dispense with the mirror , unlearn the paralysis , and start moving your paralyzed arm , and then , relieve yourself of pain . " so he said ok , and he took it home .
i said , " look , it 's , after all , two dollars . take it home . " so , he took it home , and after two weeks , he phones me , and he said , " doctor , you 're not going to believe this . " i said , " what ? " he said , " it 's gone . " i said , " what 's gone ? " i thought maybe the mirror box was gone .
he said , " no , no , no , you know this phantom i 've had for the last 10 years ?
it 's disappeared . " and i said -- i got worried , i said , my god , i mean i 've changed this guy 's body image , what about human subjects , ethics and all of that ?
and i said , " derek , does this bother you ? " he said , " no , last three days , i 've not had a phantom arm and therefore no phantom elbow pain , no clenching , no phantom forearm pain , all those pains are gone away .
but the problem is i still have my phantom fingers dangling from the shoulder , and your box doesn 't reach . " " so , can you change the design and put it on my forehead , so i can , you know , do this and eliminate my phantom fingers ? " he thought i was some kind of magician .
now , why does this happen ?
it 's because the brain is faced with tremendous sensory conflict .
it 's getting messages from vision saying the phantom is back .
on the other hand , there 's no appropriate reception , muscle signals saying that there is no arm , right ?
and your motor command saying there is an arm , and , because of this conflict , the brain says , to hell with it , there is no phantom , there is no arm , right ?
it goes into a sort of denial -- negates the signals .
and when the arm disappears , the bonus is , the pain disappears because you can 't have disembodied pain floating out there , in space .
so , that 's the bonus .
now , this technique has been tried on dozens of patients by other groups in helsinki , so it may prove to be valuable as a treatment for phantom pain , and indeed , people have tried it for stroke rehabilitation .
stroke you normally think of as damage to the fibers , nothing you can do about it .
but , it turns out some component of stroke paralysis is also learned paralysis , and maybe that component can be overcome using mirrors .
this has also gone through clinical trials , helping lots and lots of patients .
ok , let me switch gears now to the third part of my talk , which is about another curious phenomenon called synesthesia .
this was discovered by francis galton in the nineteenth century .
he was a cousin of charles darwin .
he pointed out that certain people in the population , who are otherwise completely normal , had the following peculiarity : every time they see a number , it 's colored .
five is blue , seven is yellow , eight is chartreuse , nine is indigo , ok ?
bear in mind , these people are completely normal in other respects .
or c sharp -- sometimes , tones evoke color .
c sharp is blue , f sharp is green , another tone might be yellow , right ?
why does this happen ?
this is called synesthesia . galton called it synesthesia , a mingling of the senses .
in us , all the senses are distinct .
these people muddle up their senses .
why does this happen ?
one of the two aspects of this problem are very intriguing .
synesthesia runs in families , so galton said this is a hereditary basis , a genetic basis .
secondly , synesthesia is about -- and this is what gets me to my point about the main theme of this lecture , which is about creativity -- synesthesia is eight times more common among artists , poets , novelists and other creative people than in the general population .
why would that be ?
i 'm going to answer that question .
it 's never been answered before .
ok , what is synesthesia ? what causes it ?
well , there are many theories .
one theory is they 're just crazy .
now , that 's not really a scientific theory , so we can forget about it .
another theory is they are acid junkies and potheads , right ?
now , there may be some truth to this , because it 's much more common here in the bay area than in san diego .
ok . now , the third theory is that -- well , let 's ask ourselves what 's really going on in synesthesia . all right ?
so , we found that the color area and the number area are right next to each other in the brain , in the fusiform gyrus .
so we said , there 's some accidental cross wiring between color and numbers in the brain .
so , every time you see a number , you see a corresponding color , and that 's why you get synesthesia .
now remember -- why does this happen ?
why would there be crossed wires in some people ?
remember i said it runs in families ?
that gives you the clue . and that is , there is an abnormal gene , a mutation in the gene that causes this abnormal cross wiring .
in all of us , it turns out we are born with everything wired to everything else .
so , every brain region is wired to every other region , and these are trimmed down to create the characteristic modular architecture of the adult brain .
so , if there 's a gene causing this trimming and if that gene mutates , then you get deficient trimming between adjacent brain areas . and if it 's between number and color , you get number-color synesthesia .
if it 's between tone and color , you get tone-color synesthesia .
so far , so good .
now , what if this gene is expressed everywhere in the brain , so everything is cross-connected ?
well , think about what artists , novelists and poets have in common , the ability to engage in metaphorical thinking , linking seemingly unrelated ideas , such as , " it is the east , and juliet is the sun . " well , you don 't say , juliet is the sun , does that mean she 's a glowing ball of fire ?
i mean , schizophrenics do that , but it 's a different story , right ?
normal people say , she 's warm like the sun , she 's radiant like the sun , she 's nurturing like the sun .
instantly , you 've found the links .
now , if you assume that this greater cross wiring and concepts are also in different parts of the brain , then it 's going to create a greater propensity towards metaphorical thinking and creativity in people with synesthesia .
and , hence , the eight times more common incidence of synesthesia among poets , artists and novelists .
ok , it 's a very phrenological view of synesthesia .
the last demonstration -- can i take one minute ?
ok . i 'm going to show you that you 're all synesthetes , but you 're in denial about it .
here 's what i call martian alphabet . just like your alphabet , a is a , b is b , c is c. different shapes for different phonemes , right ?
here , you 've got martian alphabet .
one of them is kiki , one of them is buba .
which one is kiki and which one is buba ?
how many of you think that 's kiki and that 's buba ? raise your hands .
well , it 's one or two mutants .
how many of you think that 's buba , that 's kiki ? raise your hands .
ninety-nine percent of you .
now , none of you is a martian . how did you do that ?
it 's because you 're all doing a cross-model synesthetic abstraction , meaning you 're saying that that sharp inflection -- ki-ki , in your auditory cortex , the hair cells being excited -- kiki , mimics the visual inflection , sudden inflection of that jagged shape .
now , this is very important , because what it 's telling you is your brain is engaging in a primitive -- it 's just -- it looks like a silly illusion , but these photons in your eye are doing this shape , and hair cells in your ear are exciting the auditory pattern , but the brain is able to extract the common denominator .
it 's a primitive form of abstraction , and we now know this happens in the fusiform gyrus of the brain , because when that 's damaged , these people lose the ability to engage in buba kiki , but they also lose the ability to engage in metaphor .
if you ask this guy , what -- " all that glitters is not gold , " what does that mean ? " the patient says , " well , if it 's metallic and shiny , it doesn 't mean it 's gold . you have to measure its specific gravity , ok ? "
so , they completely miss the metaphorical meaning .
so , this area is about eight times the size in higher -- especially in humans -- as in lower primates .
something very interesting is going on here in the angular gyrus , because it 's the crossroads between hearing , vision and touch , and it became enormous in humans . and something very interesting is going on .
and i think it 's a basis of many uniquely human abilities like abstraction , metaphor and creativity .
all of these questions that philosophers have been studying for millennia , we scientists can begin to explore by doing brain imaging , and by studying patients and asking the right questions .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / martin _ rees _ asks _ is _ this _ our _ final _ century.html
speaking as both an astronomer and " a concerned member of the human race , " sir martin rees examines our planet and its future from a cosmic perspective . he urges action to prevent dark consequences from our scientific and technological development .
astronomy , climate change , complexity , cosmos , future , leadership , science , social change , technology , universe
42
martin rees asks : is this our final century ?
if you take 10,000 people at random , 9,999 have something in common : their interests in business lie on or near the earth 's surface .
the odd one out is an astronomer , and i am one of that strange breed .
my talk will be in two parts . i 'll talk first as an astronomer , and then as a worried member of the human race .
but let 's start off by remembering that darwin showed how we 're the outcome of four billion years of evolution .
and what we try to do in astronomy and cosmology is to go back before darwin 's simple beginning , to set our earth in a cosmic context .
and let me just run through a few slides .
this was the impact that happened last week on a comet .
if they 'd sent a nuke , it would have been rather more spectacular than what actually happened last monday .
so that 's another project for nasa .
that 's mars from the european mars express , and at new year .
this artist 's impression turned into reality when a parachute landed on titan , saturn 's giant moon .
it landed on the surface . this is pictures taken on the way down .
that looks like a coastline .
it is indeed , but the ocean is liquid methane -- the temperature minus 170 degrees centigrade .
if we go beyond our solar system , we 've learned that the stars aren 't twinkly points of light .
each one is like a sun with a retinue of planets orbiting around it . and we can see places where stars are forming , like the eagle nebula . we see stars dying .
in six billion years , the sun will look like that .
and some stars die spectacularly in a supernova explosion , leaving remnants like that .
on a still bigger scale , we see entire galaxies of stars .
we see entire ecosystems where gas is being recycled .
and to the cosmologist , these galaxies are just the atoms , as it were , of the large-scale universe .
this picture shows a patch of sky so small that it would take about 100 patches like it to cover the full moon in the sky .
through a small telescope , this would look quite blank ,
but you see here hundreds of little , faint smudges .
each is a galaxy , fully like ours or andromeda , which looks so small and faint because its light has taken 10 billion light-years to get to us .
the stars in those galaxies probably don 't have planets around them .
there 's scant chance of life there -- that 's because there 's been no time for the nuclear fusion in stars to make silicon and carbon and iron , the building blocks of planets and of life .
we believe that all of this emerged from a big bang -- a hot , dense state . so how did that amorphous big bang turn into our complex cosmos ?
i 'm going to show you a movie simulation 16 powers of 10 faster than real time , which shows a patch of the universe where the expansions have subtracted out .
but you see , as time goes on in gigayears at the bottom , you will see structures evolve as gravity feeds on small , dense irregularities , and structures develop .
and we 'll end up after 13 billion years with something looking rather like our own universe .
and we compare simulated universes like that -- i 'll show you a better simulation at the end of my talk -- with what we actually see in the sky .
well , we can trace things back to the earlier stages of the big bang , but we still don 't know what banged and why it banged .
that 's a challenge for 21st-century science .
if my research group had a logo , it would be this picture here : an ouroboros , where you see the micro-world on the left -- the world of the quantum -- and on the right the large-scale universe of planets , stars and galaxies .
we know our universes are united though -- links between left and right .
the everyday world is determined by atoms , how they stick together to make molecules .
stars are fueled by how the nuclei in those atoms react together .
and , as we 've learned in the last few years , galaxies are held together by the gravitational pull of so-called dark matter : particles in huge swarms , far smaller even than atomic nuclei .
but we 'd like to know the synthesis symbolized at the very top .
the micro-world of the quantum is understood .
on the right hand side , gravity holds sway . einstein explained that .
but the unfinished business for 21st-century science is to link together cosmos and micro-world with a unified theory -- symbolized , as it were , gastronomically at the top of that picture .
and until we have that synthesis , we won 't be able to understand the very beginning of our universe because when our universe was itself the size of an atom , quantum effects could shake everything .
and so we need a theory that unifies the very large and the very small , which we don 't yet have .
one idea , incidentally -- and i had this hazard sign to say i 'm going to speculate from now on -- is that our big bang was not the only one .
one idea is that our three-dimensional universe may be embedded in a high-dimensional space , just as you can imagine on these sheets of paper .
you can imagine ants on one of them thinking it 's a two-dimensional universe , not being aware of another population of ants on the other .
so there could be another universe just a millimeter away from ours , but we 're not aware of it because that millimeter is measured in some fourth spatial dimension , and we 're imprisoned in our three .
and so we believe that there may be a lot more to physical reality than what we 've normally called our universe -- the aftermath of our big bang . and here 's another picture .
bottom right depicts our universe , which on the horizon is not beyond that , but even that is just one bubble , as it were , in some vaster reality .
many people suspect that just as we 've gone from believing in one solar system to zillions of solar systems , one galaxy to many galaxies , we have to go to many big bangs from one big bang ,
perhaps these many big bangs displaying an immense variety of properties .
well , let 's go back to this picture .
there 's one challenge symbolized at the top , but there 's another challenge to science symbolized at the bottom .
you want to not only synthesize the very large and the very small , but we want to understand the very complex .
and the most complex things are ourselves , midway between atoms and stars .
we depend on stars to make the atoms we 're made of .
we depend on chemistry to determine our complex structure .
we clearly have to be large , compared to atoms , to have layer upon layer of complex structure .
we clearly have to be small , compared to stars and planets -- otherwise we 'd be crushed by gravity . and in fact , we are midway .
it would take as many human bodies to make up the sun as there are atoms in each of us .
the geometric mean of the mass of a proton and the mass of the sun is 50 kilograms , within a factor of two of the mass of each person here .
well , most of you anyway .
the science of complexity is probably the greatest challenge of all , greater than that of the very small on the left and the very large on the right .
and it 's this science , which is not only enlightening our understanding of the biological world , but also transforming our world faster than ever .
and more than that , it 's engendering new kinds of change .
and i now move on to the second part of my talk , and the book " our final century " was mentioned .
if i was not a self-effacing brit , i would mention the book myself , and i would add that it 's available in paperback .
and in america it was called " our final hour " because americans like instant gratification .
but my theme is that in this century , not only has science changed the world faster than ever , but in new and different ways .
targeted drugs , genetic modification , artificial intelligence , perhaps even implants into our brains , may change human beings themselves . and human beings , their physique and character , has not changed for thousands of years .
it may change this century .
it 's new in our history .
and the human impact on the global environment -- greenhouse warming , mass extinctions and so forth -- is unprecedented , too .
and so , this makes this coming century a challenge .
bio- and cybertechnologies are environmentally benign in that they offer marvelous prospects , while , nonetheless , reducing pressure on energy and resources .
but they will have a dark side .
in our interconnected world , novel technology could empower just one fanatic , or some weirdo with a mindset of those who now design computer viruses , to trigger some kind on disaster .
indeed , catastrophe could arise simply from technical misadventure -- error rather than terror .
and even a tiny probability of catastrophe is unacceptable when the downside could be of global consequence .
in fact , some years ago , bill joy wrote an article expressing tremendous concern about robots taking us over , etc .
i don 't go along with all that , but it 's interesting that he had a simple solution .
it was what he called " fine-grained relinquishment . "
he wanted to give up the dangerous kind of science and keep the good bits . now , that 's absurdly naive for two reasons .
first , any scientific discovery has benign consequences as well as dangerous ones .
and also , when a scientist makes a discovery , he or she normally has no clue what the applications are going to be .
and so what this means is that we have to accept the risks if we are going to enjoy the benefits of science .
we have to accept that there will be hazards .
and i think we have to go back to what happened in the post-war era , post-world war ii , when the nuclear scientists who 'd been involved in making the atomic bomb , in many cases were concerned that they should do all they could to alert the world to the dangers .
and they were inspired not by the young einstein , who did the great work in relativity , but by the old einstein , the icon of poster and t-shirt , who failed in his scientific efforts to unify the physical laws .
he was premature . but he was a moral compass -- an inspiration to scientists who were concerned with arms control .
and perhaps the greatest living person is someone i 'm privileged to know , joe rothblatt .
equally untidy office there , as you can see .
he 's 96 years old , and he founded the pugwash movement .
he persuaded einstein , as his last act , to sign the famous memorandum of bertrand russell .
and he sets an example of the concerned scientist .
and i think to harness science optimally , to choose which doors to open and which to leave closed , we need latter-day counterparts of people like joseph rothblatt .
we need not just campaigning physicists , but we need biologists , computer experts and environmentalists as well .
and i think academics and independent entrepreneurs have a special obligation because they have more freedom than those in government service , or company employees subject to commercial pressure .
i wrote my book , " our final century , " as a scientist , just a general scientist . but there 's one respect , i think , in which being a cosmologist offered a special perspective , and that 's that it offers an awareness of the immense future .
the stupendous time spans of the evolutionary past are now part of common culture -- outside the american bible belt , anyway -- but most people , even those who are familiar with evolution , aren 't mindful that even more time lies ahead .
the sun has been shining for four and a half billion years , but it 'll be another six billion years before its fuel runs out .
on that schematic picture , a sort of time-lapse picture , we 're halfway .
and it 'll be another six billion before that happens , and any remaining life on earth is vaporized .
there 's an unthinking tendency to imagine that humans will be there , experiencing the sun 's demise , but any life and intelligence that exists then will be as different from us as we are from bacteria .
the unfolding of intelligence and complexity still has immensely far to go , here on earth and probably far beyond .
so we are still at the beginning of the emergence of complexity in our earth and beyond .
if you represent the earth 's lifetime by a single year , say from january when it was made to december , the 21st-century would be a quarter of a second in june -- a tiny fraction of the year .
but even in this concertinaed cosmic perspective , our century is very , very special ,
the first when humans can change themselves and their home planet .
as i should have shown this earlier , it will not be humans who witness the end point of the sun ; it will be creatures as different from us as we are from bacteria .
when einstein died in 1955 , one striking tribute to his global status was this cartoon by herblock in the washington post .
the plaque reads , " albert einstein lived here . "
and i 'd like to end with a vignette , as it were , inspired by this image .
we 've been familiar for 40 years with this image : the fragile beauty of land , ocean and clouds , contrasted with the sterile moonscape on which the astronauts left their footprints .
but let 's suppose some aliens had been watching our pale blue dot in the cosmos from afar , not just for 40 years , but for the entire 4.5 billion-year history of our earth .
what would they have seen ?
over nearly all that immense time , earth 's appearance would have changed very gradually .
the only abrupt worldwide change would have been major asteroid impacts or volcanic super-eruptions .
apart from those brief traumas , nothing happens suddenly .
the continental landmasses drifted around .
ice cover waxed and waned .
successions of new species emerged , evolved and became extinct .
but in just a tiny sliver of the earth 's history , the last one-millionth part , a few thousand years , the patterns of vegetation altered much faster than before .
this signaled the start of agriculture .
change has accelerated as human populations rose .
then other things happened even more abruptly .
within just 50 years -- that 's one hundredth of one millionth of the earth 's age -- the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere started to rise , and ominously fast .
the planet became an intense emitter of radio waves -- the total output from all tv and cell phones and radar transmissions . and something else happened .
metallic objects -- albeit very small ones , a few tons at most -- escaped into orbit around the earth .
some journeyed to the moons and planets .
a race of advanced extraterrestrials watching our solar system from afar could confidently predict earth 's final doom in another six billion years .
but could they have predicted this unprecedented spike less than halfway through the earth 's life ?
these human-induced alterations occupying overall less than a millionth of the elapsed lifetime and seemingly occurring with runaway speed ?
if they continued their vigil , what might these hypothetical aliens witness in the next hundred years ?
will some spasm foreclose earth 's future ?
or will the biosphere stabilize ?
or will some of the metallic objects launched from the earth spawn new oases , a post-human life elsewhere ?
the science done by the young einstein will continue as long as our civilization , but for civilization to survive , we 'll need the wisdom of the old einstein -- humane , global and farseeing .
and whatever happens in this uniquely crucial century will resonate into the remote future and perhaps far beyond the earth , far beyond the earth as depicted here .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / susan _ savage _ rumbaugh _ on _ apes _ that _ write.html
savage-rumbaugh 's work with bonobo apes , which can understand spoken language and learn tasks by watching , forces the audience to rethink how much of what a species can do is determined by biology -- and how much by cultural exposure .
featured , animals , apes , biology , culture , education , evolution , genetics , intelligence , language
76
susan savage-rumbaugh : the real-life culture of bonobos
i work with a species called " bonobo . "
and i 'm happy most of the time , because i think this is the happiest species on the planet .
it 's kind of a well-kept secret .
this species lives only in the congo .
and they 're not in too many zoos , because of their sexual behavior .
their sexual behavior is too human-like for most of us to be comfortable with .
but --
actually , we have a lot to learn from them , because they 're a very egalitarian society and they 're a very empathetic society .
and sexual behavior is not confined to one aspect of their life that they sort of set aside .
it permeates their entire life .
and it 's used for communication .
and it 's used for conflict resolution .
and i think perhaps somewhere in our history we sort of , divided our lives up into lots of parts .
we divided our world up with lots of categories .
and so everything sort of has a place that it has to fit .
but i don 't think that we were that way initially .
there are many people who think that the animal world is hard-wired and that there 's something very , very special about man .
maybe it 's his ability to have causal thought .
maybe it 's something special in his brain that allows him to have language .
maybe it 's something special in his brain that allows him to make tools or to have mathematics .
well , i don 't know . there were tasmanians who were discovered around the 1600s and they had no fire .
they had no stone tools .
to our knowledge they had no music .
so when you compare them to the bonobo , the bonobo is a little hairier .
he doesn 't stand quite as upright .
but there are a lot of similarities .
and i think that as we look at culture , we kind of come to understand how we got to where we are .
and i don 't really think it 's in our biology ; i think we 've attributed it to our biology , but i don 't really think it 's there .
so what i want to do now is introduce you to a species called the bonobo .
this is kanzi .
he 's a bonobo .
right now , he 's in a forest in georgia .
his mother originally came from a forest in africa .
and she came to us when she was just at puberty , about six or seven years of age .
now this shows a bonobo on your right , and a chimpanzee on your left .
clearly , the chimpanzee has a little bit harder time of walking .
the bonobo , although shorter than us and their arms still longer , is more upright , just as we are .
this shows the bonobo compared to an australopithecine like lucy .
as you can see , there 's not a lot of difference between the way a bonobo walks and the way an early australopithecine would have walked .
as they turn toward us you 'll see that the pelvic area of early australopithecines is a little flatter and doesn 't have to rotate quite so much from side to side .
so the -- the bipedal gait is a little easier .
and now we see all four .
video : narrator : the wild bonobo lives in central africa , in the jungle encircled by the congo river .
canopied trees as tall as 40 meters , 130 feet , grow densely in the area .
it was a japanese scientist who first undertook serious field studies of the bonobo , almost three decades ago .
bonobos are built slightly smaller than the chimpanzee .
slim-bodied , bonobos are by nature very gentle creatures .
long and careful studies have reported many new findings on them .
one discovery was that wild bonobos often walk bidpedally .
what 's more , they are able to walk upright for long distances .
susan savage-rumbaugh : let 's go say hello to austin first and then go to the a frame .
ss : this is kanzi and i , in the forest .
none of the things you will see in this particular video are trained .
none of them are tricks .
they all happened to be captured on film spontaneously , by nhk of japan .
we have eight bonobos .
video : look at all this stuff that 's here for our campfire .
ss : an entire family at our research centre .
video : you going to help get some sticks ?
good .
we need more sticks , too .
i have a lighter in my pocket if you need one .
that 's a wasps ' nest .
you can get it out .
i hope i have a lighter .
you can use the lighter to start the fire .
ss : so kanzi is very interested in fire .
he doesn 't do it yet without a lighter , but i think if he saw someone do it , he might be able to do --
make a fire without a lighter .
he 's learning about how to keep a fire going .
he 's learning the uses for a fire , just by watching what we do with fire .
this is a smile on the face of a bonobo .
these are happy vocalizations .
video : you 're happy .
you 're very happy about this part .
you 've got to put some water on the fire . you see the water ?
good job .
ss : forgot to zip up the back half of his backpack .
but he likes to carry things from place to place .
video : austin , i hear you saying " austin . "
ss : he talks to other bonobos at the lab , long-distance , farther than we can hear .
this is his sister .
this is her first time to try to drive a golf cart .
video : goodbye .
ss : she 's got the pedals down , but not the wheel .
she switches from reverse to forward and she holds onto the wheel , rather than turns it .
like us , she knows that that individual in the mirror is her .
video : narrator : by raising bonobos in a culture that is both bonobo and human , and documenting their development across two decades , scientists are exploring how cultural forces may have operated during human evolution .
his name is nyota .
it means " star " in swahili .
panbanisha is trying to give nyota a haircut with a pair of scissors .
in the wild , the parent bonobo is known to groom its offspring .
here panbanisha uses scissors , instead of her hands , to groom nyota .
very impressive .
subtle maneuvering of the hands is required to perform delicate tasks like this .
nyota tries to imitate panbanisha by using the scissors himself .
realizing that nyota might get hurt , panbanisha , like any human mother , carefully tugs to get the scissors back .
he can now cut through tough animal hide .
ss : kanzi 's learned to make stone tools .
video : kanzi now makes his tools , just as our ancestors may have made them , two-and-a-half million years ago --
by holding the rocks in both hands , to strike one against the other .
he has learned that by using both hands and aiming his glancing blows , he can make much larger , sharper flakes .
kanzi chooses a flake he thinks is sharp enough .
the tough hide is difficult to cut , even with a knife .
the rock that kanzi is using is extremely hard and ideal for stone tool making , but difficult to handle , requiring great skill .
kanzi 's rock is from gona , ethiopia and is identical to that used by our african ancestors two-and-a-half million years ago .
these are the rocks kanzi used and these are the flakes he made .
the flat sharp edges are like knife blades .
compare them to the tools our ancestors used ; they bear a striking resemblance to kanzi 's .
panbanisha is longing to go for a walk in the woods .
