hello , everyone . because this is my first time at ted , i 've decided to bring along an old friend to help break the ice a bit .
yes . that 's right . this is barbie .
she 's 50 years old . and she 's looking as young as ever .
but i 'd also like to introduce you to what may be an unfamiliar face .
this is fulla . fulla is the arab world 's answer to barbie .
now , according to proponents of the clash of civilizations , barbie and fulla occupy these completely separate spheres .
they have different interests . they have divergent values .
and should they ever come in contact ...
well , i 've got to tell you , it 's just not going to be pretty .
my experience , however , in the islamic world is very different .
where i work , in the arab region , people are busy taking up western innovations and changing them into things which are neither conventionally western , nor are they traditionally islamic .
i want to show you two examples .
the first is 4shbab .
it means " for youth " and it 's a new arab tv channel .
: video clips from across the globe .
the usa .
♫ i am not afraid to stand alone ♫ ♫ i am not afraid to stand alone , if allah is by my side ♫ ♫ i am not afraid to stand alone ♫ ♫ everything will be all right ♫ ♫ i am not afraid to stand alone ♫ the arab world .
♫ she was preserved by modesty of the religion ♫ ♫ she was adorned by the light of the quran ♫ shereen el feki : 4shbab has been dubbed islamic mtv .
its creator , who is an egyptian tv producer called ahmed abu haiba , wants young people to be inspired by islam to lead better lives .
he reckons the best way to get that message across is to use the enormously popular medium of music videos .
4shbab was set up as an alternative to existing arab music channels .
and they look something like this .
that , by the way is haifa wehbe . she 's a lebanese pop star and pan-arab pin-up girl .
in the world of 4shbab , it 's not about bump and grind .
but it 's not about fire and brimstone either .
its videos are intended to show a kinder , gentler face of islam , for young people to deal with life 's challenges .
now , my second example is for a slightly younger crowd .
and it 's called " the 99 . "
now , these are the world 's first islamic superheroes .
they were created by a kuwaiti psychologist called naif al mutawa .
and his desire is to rescue islam from images of intolerance , all in a child-friendly format .
" the 99 . " the characters are meant to embody the 99 attributes of allah : justice , wisdom , mercy , among others .
so , for example , there is the character of noora .
she is meant to have the power to look inside people and see the good and bad in everyone .
another character called jami has the ability to create fantastic inventions .
now , " the 99 " is not just a comic book .
it 's now a theme park .
there is an animated series in the works .
and by this time next year , the likes of superman and wonder woman will have joined forces with " the 99 " to beat injustice wherever they find it .
" the 99 " and 4shbab are just two of many examples of this sort of islamic cross-cultural hybridization .
we 're not talking here about a clash of civilizations .
nor is it some sort of indistinguishable mash .
i like to think of it as a mesh of civilizations , in which the strands of different cultures are intertwined .
now , while 4shbab and " the 99 " may look new and shiny , there is actually a very long tradition of this .
throughout its history , islam has borrowed and adapted from other civilizations both ancient and modern .
after all , it 's the quran which encourages us to do this :
" we made you into nations and tribes so that you could learn from one another . "
and to my mind , those are pretty wise words , no matter what your creed . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / esther _ perel _ the _ secret _ to _ desire _ in _ a _ long _ term _ relationship.html
in long-term relationships , we often expect our beloved to be both best friend and erotic partner . but as esther perel argues , good < em > and < / em > committed sex draws on two conflicting needs : our need for security and our need for surprise . so how do you sustain desire ? with wit and eloquence , perel lets us in on the mystery of erotic intelligence .
culture , love , relationships , sex
1669
esther perel : the secret to desire in a long-term relationship
so , why does good sex so often fade , even for couples who continue to love each other as much as ever ?
and why does good intimacy not guarantee good sex , contrary to popular belief ?
or , the next question would be , can we want what we already have ?
that 's the million-dollar question , right ?
and why is the forbidden so erotic ?
what is it about transgression that makes desire so potent ?
and why does sex make babies , and babies spell erotic disaster in couples ?
it 's kind of the fatal erotic blow , isn 't it ?
and when you love , how does it feel ?
and when you desire , how is it different ?
these are some of the questions that are at the center of my exploration on the nature of erotic desire and its concomitant dilemmas in modern love .
so i travel the globe , and what i 'm noticing is that everywhere where romanticism has entered , there seems to be a crisis of desire .
a crisis of desire , as in owning the wanting -- desire as an expression of our individuality , of our free choice , of our preferences , of our identity -- desire that has become a central concept as part of modern love and individualistic societies .
you know , this is the first time in the history of humankind where we are trying to experience sexuality in the long term , not because we want 14 children , for which we need to have even more because many of them won 't make it , and not because it is exclusively a woman 's marital duty .
this is the first time that we want sex over time about pleasure and connection that is rooted in desire .
so what sustains desire , and why is it so difficult ?
and at the heart of sustaining desire in a committed relationship , i think is the reconciliation of two fundamental human needs .
on the one hand , our need for security , for predictability , for safety , for dependability , for reliability , for permanence -- all these anchoring , grounding experiences of our lives that we call home .
but we also have an equally strong need -- men and women -- for adventure , for novelty , for mystery , for risk , for danger , for the unknown , for the unexpected , surprise -- you get the gist -- for journey , for travel .
so reconciling our need for security and our need for adventure into one relationship , or what we today like to call a passionate marriage , used to be a contradiction in terms .
marriage was an economic institution in which you were given a partnership for life in terms of children and social status and succession and companionship .
but now we want our partner to still give us all these things , but in addition i want you to be my best friend and my trusted confidant and my passionate lover to boot , and we live twice as long .
so we come to one person , and we basically are asking them to give us what once an entire village used to provide : give me belonging , give me identity , give me continuity , but give me transcendence and mystery and awe all in one .
give me comfort , give me edge .
give me novelty , give me familiarity .
give me predictability , give me surprise .
and we think it 's a given , and toys and lingerie are going to save us with that .
so now we get to the existential reality of the story , right ?
because i think , in some way -- and i 'll come back to that -- but the crisis of desire is often a crisis of the imagination .
so why does good sex so often fade ?
what is the relationship between love and desire ?
how do they relate , and how do they conflict ?
because therein lies the mystery of eroticism .
so if there is a verb , for me , that comes with love , it 's " to have . "
and if there is a verb that comes with desire , it is " to want . "
in love , we want to have , we want to know the beloved .
we want to minimize the distance . we want to contract that gap .
we want to neutralize the tensions . we want closeness .
but in desire , we tend to not really want to go back to the places we 've already gone .
forgone conclusion does not keep our interest .
in desire , we want an other , somebody on the other side that we can go visit , that we can go spend some time with , that we can go see what goes on in their red light district .
in desire , we want a bridge to cross .
or in other words , i sometimes say , fire needs air .
desire needs space .
and when it 's said like that , it 's often quite abstract .
but then i took a question with me .
and i 've gone to more than 20 countries in the last few years with " mating in captivity , " and i asked people , when do you find yourself most drawn to your partner ?
not attracted sexually , per se , but most drawn .
and across culture , across religion , and across gender -- except for one -- there are a few answers that just keep coming back .
so the first group is : i am most drawn to my partner when she is away , when we are apart , when we reunite .
basically , when i get back in touch with my ability to imagine myself with my partner , when my imagination comes back in the picture , and when i can root it in absence and in longing , which is a major component of desire .
but then the second group is even more interesting : i am most drawn to my partner when i see him in the studio , when she is onstage , when he is in his element , when she 's doing something she 's passionate about , when i see him at a party and other people are really drawn to him , when i see her hold court .
basically , when i look at my partner radiant and confident , probably the biggest turn-on across the board .
radiant , as in self-sustaining .
i look at this person -- by the way , in desire people rarely talk about it , when we are blended into one , five centimeters from each other . i don 't know in inches how much that is .
but it 's also not when the other person is that far apart that you no longer see them .
it 's when i 'm looking at my partner from a comfortable distance , where this person that is already so familiar , so known , is momentarily once again somewhat mysterious , somewhat elusive .
and in this space between me and the other lies the erotic elan , lies that movement toward the other .
because sometimes , as proust says , mystery is not about traveling to new places , but it 's about looking with new eyes .
and so , when i see my partner on his own or her own , doing something in which they are enveloped , i look at this person and i momentarily get a shift in perception , and i stay open to the mysteries that are living right next to me .
and then , more importantly , in this description about the other or myself -- it 's the same -- what is most interesting is that there is no neediness in desire .
nobody needs anybody .
there is no caretaking in desire .
caretaking is mightily loving . it 's a powerful anti-aphrodisiac .
i have yet to see somebody who is so turned on by somebody who needs them .
wanting them is one thing . needing them is a shutdown , and women have known that forever , because anything that will bring up parenthood will usually decrease the erotic charge .
for good reasons , right ?
and then the third group of answers usually would be when i 'm surprised , when we laugh together , as somebody said to me in the office today , when he 's in his tux , so i said , you know , it 's either the tux or the cowboy boots .
but basically it 's when there is novelty .
but novelty isn 't about new positions . it isn 't a repertoire of techniques .
novelty is , what parts of you do you bring out ?
what parts of you are just being seen ?
because in some way one could say sex isn 't something you do , eh ?
sex is a place you go . it 's a space you enter inside yourself and with another , or others .
so where do you go in sex ?
what parts of you do you connect to ?
what do you seek to express there ?
is it a place for transcendence and spiritual union ?
is it a place for naughtiness and is it a place to be safely aggressive ?
is it a place where you can finally surrender and not have to take responsibility for everything ?
is it a place where you can express your infantile wishes ?
what comes out there ? it 's a language .
it isn 't just a behavior .
and it 's the poetic of that language that i 'm interested in , which is why i began to explore this concept of erotic intelligence .
you know , animals have sex .
it 's the pivot , it 's biology , it 's the natural instinct .
we are the only ones who have an erotic life , which means that it 's sexuality transformed by the human imagination .
we are the only ones who can make love for hours , have a blissful time , multiple orgasms , and touch nobody , just because we can imagine it .
we can hint at it . we don 't even have to do it .
we can experience that powerful thing called anticipation , which is a mortar to desire , the ability to imagine it , as if it 's happening , to experience it as if it 's happening , while nothing is happening and everything is happening at the same time .
so when i began to think about eroticism , i began to think about the poetics of sex , and if i look at it as an intelligence , then it 's something that you cultivate .
what are the ingredients ? imagination , playfulness , novelty , curiosity , mystery .
but the central agent is really that piece called the imagination .
but more importantly , for me to begin to understand who are the couples who have an erotic spark , what sustains desire , i had to go back to the original definition of eroticism , the mystical definition , and i went through it through a bifurcation by looking actually at trauma , which is the other side , and i looked at it looking at the community that i had grown up in , which was a community in belgium , all holocaust survivors , and in my community there were two groups : those who didn 't die , and those who came back to life .
and those who didn 't die lived often very tethered to the ground , could not experience pleasure , could not trust , because when you 're vigilant , worried , anxious , and insecure , you can 't lift your head to go and take off in space and be playful and safe and imaginative .
those who came back to life were those who understood the erotic as an antidote to death .
they knew how to keep themselves alive .
and when i began to listen to the sexlessness of the couples that i work with , i sometimes would hear people say , " i want more sex , " but generally people want better sex , and better is to reconnect with that quality of aliveness , of vibrancy , of renewal , of vitality , of eros , of energy that sex used to afford them , or that they 've hoped it would afford them .
and so i began to ask a different question .
" i shut myself off when ... " began to be the question .
" i turn off my desires when ... " which is not the same question as , " what turns me of is ... " and " you turn me off when ... " and people began to say , " i turn myself off when i feel dead inside , when i don 't like my body , when i feel old , when i haven 't had time for myself , when i haven 't had a chance to even check in with you , when i don 't perform well at work , when i feel low self esteem , when i don 't have a sense of self-worth , when i don 't feel like i have a right to want , to take , to receive pleasure . " and then i began to ask the reverse question .
" i turn myself on when ... " because most of the time , people like to ask the question , " you turn me on , what turns me on , " and i 'm out of the question . you know ?
now , if you are dead inside , the other person can do a lot of things for valentine 's .
it won 't make a dent . there is nobody at the reception desk .
so i turn myself on when , i turn my desires , i wake up when ...
now , in this paradox between love and desire , what seems to be so puzzling is that the very ingredients that nurture love -- mutuality , reciprocity , protection , worry , responsibility for the other -- are sometimes the very ingredients that stifle desire .
because desire comes with a host of feelings that are not always such favorites of love : jealousy , possessiveness , aggression , power , dominance , naughtiness , mischief .
basically most of us will get turned on at night by the very same things that we will demonstrate against during the day .
you know , the erotic mind is not very politically correct .
if everybody was fantasizing on a bed of roses , we wouldn 't be having such interesting talks about this .
but no , in our mind up there are a host of things going on that we don 't always know how to bring to the person that we love , because we think love comes with selflessness and in fact desire comes with a certain amount of selfishness in the best sense of the word : the ability to stay connected to one 's self in the presence of another .
so i want to draw that little image for you , because this need to reconcile these two sets of needs , we are born with that . our need for connection , our need for separateness , or our need for security and adventure , or our need for togetherness and for autonomy , and if you think about the little kid who sits on your lap and who is cozily nested here and very secure and comfortable , and at some point all of us need to go out into the world to discover and to explore .
that 's the beginning of desire , that exploratory needs curiosity , discovery .
and then at some point they turn around and they look at you , and if you tell them , " hey kiddo , the world 's a great place . go for it .
there 's so much fun out there , " then they can turn away and they can experience connection and separateness at the same time .
they can go off in their imagination , off in their body , off in their playfulness , all the while knowing that there 's somebody when they come back .
but if on this side there is somebody who says , " i 'm worried . i 'm anxious . i 'm depressed .
my partner hasn 't taken care of me in so long .
what 's so good out there ? don 't we have everything you need together , you and i ? " then there are a few little reactions that all of us can pretty much recognize .
some of us will come back , came back a long time ago , and that little child who comes back is the child who will forgo a part of himself in order not to lose the other .
i will lose my freedom in order not to lose connection .
and i will learn to love in a certain way that will become burdened with extra worry and extra responsibility and extra protection , and i won 't know how to leave you in order to go play , in order to go experience pleasure , in order to discover , to enter inside myself .
translate this into adult language .
it starts very young . it continues into our sex lives up to the end .
child number two comes back but looks like that over their shoulder all the time .
" are you going to be there ?
are you going to curse me ? are you going to scold me ?
are you going to be angry with me ? " and they may be gone , but they 're never really away , and those are often the people that will tell you , in the beginning it was super hot .
because in the beginning , the growing intimacy wasn 't yet so strong that it actually led to the decrease of desire .
the more connected i became , the more responsible i felt , the less i was able to let go in your presence .
the third child doesn 't really come back .
so what happens , if you want to sustain desire , it 's that real dialectic piece .
on the one hand you want the security in order to be able to go .
on the other hand if you can 't go , you can 't have pleasure , you can 't culminate , you don 't have an orgasm , you don 't get excited because you spend your time in the body and the head of the other and not in your own .
so in this dilemma about reconciling these two sets of fundamental needs , there are a few things that i 've come to understand erotic couples do .
one , they have a lot of sexual privacy .
they understand that there is an erotic space that belongs to each of them .
they also understand that foreplay is not something you do five minutes before the real thing .
foreplay pretty much starts at the end of the previous orgasm .
they also understand that an erotic space isn 't about , you begin to stroke the other .
it 's about you create a space where you leave management inc . , maybe where you leave the agile program , and you actually just enter that place where you stop being the good citizen who is taking care of things and being responsible .
responsibility and desire just butt heads .
they don 't really do well together .
erotic couples also understand that passion waxes and wanes .
it 's pretty much like the moon . it has intermittent eclipses .
but what they know is they know how to resurrect it .
they know how to bring it back , and they know how to bring it back because they have demystified one big myth , which is the myth of spontaneity , which is that it 's just going to fall from heaven while you 're folding the laundry like a deus ex machina , and in fact they understood that whatever is going to just happen in a long-term relationship already has .
committed sex is premeditated sex .
it 's willful . it 's intentional .
it 's focus and presence .
merry valentine 's .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / david _ byrne _ how _ architecture _ helped _ music _ evolve.html
as his career grew , david byrne went from playing cbgb to carnegie hall . he asks : does the venue make the music ? from outdoor drumming to wagnerian operas to arena rock , he explores how context has pushed musical innovation .
architecture , arts , future , history , music
883
david byrne : how architecture helped music evolve
this is the venue where , as a young man , some of the music that i wrote was first performed .
it was , remarkably , a pretty good sounding room .
with all the uneven walls and all the crap everywhere , it actually sounded pretty good .
this is a song that was recorded there .
this is not talking heads , in the picture anyway .
" by talking heads ) so the nature of the room meant that words could be understood .
the lyrics of the songs could be pretty much understood .
the sound system was kind of decent .
and there wasn 't a lot of reverberation in the room .
so the rhythms could be pretty intact too , pretty concise .
other places around the country had similar rooms .
this is tootsie 's orchid lounge in nashville .
the music was in some ways different , but in structure and form , very much the same .
the clientele behavior was very much the same too .
and so the bands at tootsie 's or at cbgb 's had to play loud enough -- the volume had to be loud enough to overcome people falling down , shouting out and doing whatever else they were doing .
since then , i 've played other places that are much nicer .
i 've played the disney hall here and carnegie hall and places like that .
and it 's been very exciting .
but i also noticed that sometimes the music that i had written , or was writing at the time , didn 't sound all that great in some of those halls .
we managed , but sometimes those halls didn 't seem exactly suited to the music i was making or had made .
so i asked myself : do i write stuff for specific rooms ?
do i have a place , a venue , in mind when i write ?
is that a kind of model for creativity ?
do we all make things with a venue , a context , in mind ?
okay , africa .
most of the popular music that we know now has a big part of its roots in west africa .
and the music there , i would say , the instruments , the intricate rhythms , the way it 's played , the setting , the context , it 's all perfect . it all works perfect .
the music works perfectly in that setting .
there 's no big room to create reverberation and confuse the rhythms .
the instruments are loud enough that they can be heard without amplification , etc . , etc .
it 's no accident .
it 's perfect for that particular context .
and it would be a mess in a context like this . this is a gothic cathedral .
in a gothic cathedral , this kind of music is perfect .
it doesn 't change key , the notes are long ,
there 's almost no rhythm whatsoever ,
and the room flatters the music .
it actually improves it .
this is the room that bach wrote some of his music for . this is the organ .
it 's not as big as a gothic cathedral , so he can write things that are a little bit more intricate .
he can , very innovatively , actually change keys without risking huge dissonances .
this is a little bit later .
this is the kind of rooms that mozart wrote in .
i think we 're in like 1770 , somewhere around there .
they 're smaller , even less reverberant , so he can write really frilly music that 's very intricate -- and it works .
it fits the room perfectly .
this is la scala .
it 's around the same time ,
i think it was built around 1776 .
people in the audience in these opera houses , when they were built , they used to yell out to one another .
they used to eat , drink and yell out to people on the stage , just like they do at cbgb 's and places like that .
if they liked an aria , they would holler and suggest that it be done again as an encore , not at the end of the show , but immediately .
and well , that was an opera experience .
this is the opera house that wagner built for himself .
and the size of the room is not that big .
it 's smaller than this .
but wagner made an innovation . he wanted a bigger band .
he wanted a little more bombast ,
so he increased the size of the orchestra pit so he could get more low-end instruments in there .
okay . this is carnegie hall .
obviously , this kind of thing became popular .
the halls got bigger . carnegie hall 's fair-sized .
it 's larger than some of the other symphony halls .
and they 're a lot more reverberant than la scala .
around the same , according to alex ross who writes for the new yorker , this kind of rule came into effect that audiences had to be quiet --
no more eating , drinking and yelling at the stage , or gossiping with one another during the show .
they had to be very quiet .
so those two things combined meant that a different kind of music worked best in these kind of halls .
it meant that there could be extreme dynamics , which there weren 't in some of these other kinds of music .
quiet parts could be heard that would have been drowned out by all the gossiping and shouting .
but because of the reverberation in those rooms like carnegie hall , the music had to be maybe a little less rhythmic and a little more textural .
this is mahler .
it looks like bob dylan , but it 's mahler .
that was bob 's last record , yeah .
popular music , coming along at the same time .
this is a jazz band .
according to scott joplin , the bands were playing on riverboats and clubs .
again , it 's noisy . they 're playing for dancers .
there 's certain sections of the song -- the songs had different sections that the dancers really liked . and they 'd say , " play that part again . "
well , there 's only so many times you can play the same section of a song over and over again for the dancers .
so the bands started to improvise new melodies .
and a new form of music was born .
these are played mainly in small rooms .
people are dancing , shouting and drinking .
so the music has to be loud enough to be heard above that .
same thing goes true for -- that 's the beginning of the century -- for the whole of 20th-century popular music , whether it 's rock or latin music or whatever .
[ live music ] doesn 't really change that much .
it changes about a third of the way into the 20th century , when this became one of the primary venues for music .
and this was one way that the music got there .
microphones enabled singers , in particular , and musicians and composers , to completely change the kind of music that they were writing .
so far , a lot of the stuff that was on the radio was live music , but singers , like frank sinatra , could use the mic and do things that they could never do without a microphone .
other singers after him went even further .
this is chet baker .
and this kind of thing would have been impossible without a microphone .
it would have been impossible without recorded music as well .
and he 's singing right into your ear .
he 's whispering into your ears .
the effect is just electric .
it 's like the guy is sitting next to you , whispering who knows what into your ear .
so at this point , music diverged .
there 's live music , and there 's recorded music .
and they no longer have to be exactly the same .
now there 's venues like this , a discotheque , and there 's jukeboxes in bars , where you don 't even need to have a band .
there doesn 't need to be any live performing musicians whatsoever ,
and the sound systems are good .
people began to make music specifically for discos and for those sound systems .
and , as with jazz , the dancers liked certain sections more than they did others .
so the early hip-hop guys would loop certain sections .
the mc would improvise lyrics in the same way that the jazz players would improvise melodies .
and another new form of music was born .
live performance , when it was incredibly successful , ended up in what is probably , acoustically , the worst sounding venues on the planet : sports stadiums , basketball arenas and hockey arenas .
musicians who ended up there did the best they could .
they wrote what is now called arena rock , which is medium-speed ballads .
they did the best they could given that this is what they 're writing for .
the tempos are medium . it sounds big .
it 's more a social situation than a musical situation .
and in some ways , the music that they 're writing for this place works perfectly .
so there 's more new venues .
one of the new ones is the automobile .
i grew up with a radio in a car .
but now that 's evolved into something else .
the car is a whole venue .
the music that , i would say , is written for automobile sound systems works perfectly on it .
it might not be what you want to listen to at home , but it works great in the car -- has a huge frequency spectrum , you know , big bass and high-end and the voice kind of stuck in the middle .
automobile music , you can share with your friends .
there 's one other kind of new venue , the private mp3 player .
presumably , this is just for christian music .
and in some ways it 's like carnegie hall , or when the audience had to hush up ,
because you can now hear every single detail .
in other ways , it 's more like the west african music because if the music in an mp3 player gets too quiet , you turn it up , and the next minute , your ears are blasted out by a louder passage .
so that doesn 't really work .
i think pop music , mainly , it 's written today , to some extent , is written for these kind of players , for this kind of personal experience where you can hear extreme detail , but the dynamic doesn 't change that much .
so i asked myself : okay , is this a model for creation , this adaptation that we do ?
and does it happen anywhere else ?
well , according to david attenborough and some other people , birds do it too --
that the birds in the canopy , where the foliage is dense , their calls tend to be high-pitched , short and repetitive .
and the birds on the floor tend to have lower pitched calls , so that they don 't get distorted when they bounce off the forest floor .
and birds like this savannah sparrow , they tend to have a buzzing type call .
and it turns out that a sound like this is the most energy efficient and practical way to transmit their call across the fields and savannahs .
other birds , like this tanager , have adapted within the same species .
the tananger on the east coast of the united states , where the forests are a little denser , has one kind of call , and the tananger on the other side , on the west has a different kind of call .
so birds do it too .
and i thought : well , if this is a model for creation , if we make music , primarily the form at least , to fit these contexts , and if we make art to fit gallery walls or museum walls , and if we write software to fit existing operating systems , is that how it works ?
yeah . i think it 's evolutionary .
it 's adaptive .
but the pleasure and the passion and the joy is still there .
this is a reverse view of things from the kind of traditional romantic view .
the romantic view is that first comes the passion and then the outpouring of emotion , and then somehow it gets shaped into something .
and i 'm saying , well , the passion 's still there , but the vessel that it 's going to be injected into and poured into , that is instinctively and intuitively created first .
we already know where that passion is going .
but this conflict of views is kind of interesting .
the writer , thomas frank , says that this might be a kind of explanation why some voters vote against their best interests , that voters , like a lot of us , assume , that if they hear something that sounds like it 's sincere , that it 's coming from the gut , that it 's passionate , that it 's more authentic .
and they 'll vote for that .
so that , if somebody can fake sincerity , if they can fake passion , they stand a better chance of being selected in that way , which seems a little dangerous .
i 'm saying the two , the passion , the joy , are not mutually exclusive .
maybe what the world needs now is for us to realize that we are like the birds .
we adapt .
we sing .
and like the birds , the joy is still there , even though we have changed what we do to fit the context .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / billy _ graham _ on _ technology _ faith _ and _ suffering.html
speaking at ted in 1998 , rev. billy graham marvels at technology 's power to improve lives and change the world -- but says the end of evil , suffering and death will come only after the world accepts christ . a legendary talk from ted 's archives .
christianity , god , death , faith , religion , technology
308
billy graham on technology and faith
as a clergyman , you can imagine how out of place i feel .
i feel like a fish out of water , or maybe an owl out of the air .
i was preaching in san jose some time ago , and my friend mark kvamme , who helped introduce me to this conference , brought several ceos and leaders of some of the companies here in the silicon valley to have breakfast with me , or i with them .
and i was so stimulated .
and had such -- it was an eye-opening experience to hear them talk about the world that is yet to come through technology and science .
i know that we 're near the end of this conference , and some of you may be wondering why they have a speaker from the field of religion .
richard can answer that , because he made that decision .
but some years ago i was on an elevator in philadelphia , coming down .
i was to address a conference at a hotel .
and on that elevator a man said , " i hear billy graham is staying in this hotel . " and another man looked in my direction and said , " yes , there he is . he 's on this elevator with us . " and this man looked me up and down for about 10 seconds , and he said , " my , what an anticlimax ! " i hope that you won 't feel that these few moments with me is not a -- is an anticlimax , after all these tremendous talks that you 've heard , but i was on an airplane in the east some years ago , and the man sitting across the aisle from me was the mayor of charlotte , north carolina .
his name was john belk . some of you will probably know him .
and there was a drunk man on there , and he got up out of his seat two or three times , and he was making everybody upset by what he was trying to do . and he was slapping the stewardess and pinching her as she went by , and everybody was upset with him .
and finally , john belk said , " do you know who 's sitting here ? " and the man said , " no , who ? " he said , " it 's billy graham , the preacher . "
he said , " you don 't say ! " and he turned to me , and he said , " put her there ! "
he said , " your sermons have certainly helped me . " and i suppose that that 's true with thousands of people . i know that as you have been peering into the future , and as we 've heard some of it here tonight , i would like to live in that age and see what is going to be .
but i won 't , because i 'm 80 years old . this is my eightieth year , and i know that my time is brief .
i have phlebitis at the moment , in both legs , and that 's the reason that i had to have a little help in getting up here , because i have parkinson 's disease in addition to that , and some other problems that i won 't talk about .
but this is not the first time that we 've had a technological revolution .
we 've had others .
and there 's one that i want to talk about .
in one generation , the nation of the people of israel had a tremendous and dramatic change that made them a great power in the near east .
a man by the name of david came to the throne , and king david became one of the great leaders of his generation .
he was a man of tremendous leadership .
he had the favor of god with him .
he was a brilliant poet , philosopher , writer , soldier -- with strategies in battle and conflict that people study even today .
but about two centuries before david , the hittites had discovered the secret of smelting and processing of iron , and , slowly , that skill spread .
but they wouldn 't allow the israelis to look into it , or to have any .
but david changed all of that , and he introduced the iron age to israel .
and the bible says that david laid up great stores of iron , and which archaeologists have found , that in present-day palestine , there are evidences of that generation .
now , instead of crude tools made of sticks and stones , israel now had iron plows , and sickles , and hoes and military weapons .
and in the course of one generation , israel was completely changed .
the introduction of iron , in some ways , had an impact a little bit like the microchip has had on our generation .
and david found that there were many problems that technology could not solve .
there were many problems still left .
and they 're still with us , and you haven 't solved them , and i haven 't heard anybody here speak to that .
how do we solve these three problems
that i 'd like to mention ?
the first one that david saw was human evil .
where does it come from ?
how do we solve it ?
over again and again in the psalms , which gladstone said was the greatest book in the world , david describes the evils of the human race .
and yet he says , " he restores my soul . " have you ever thought about what a contradiction we are ?
on one hand , we can probe the deepest secrets of the universe and dramatically push back the frontiers of technology , as this conference vividly demonstrates .
we 've seen under the sea , three miles down , or galaxies hundreds of billions of years out in the future .
but on the other hand , something is wrong .
our battleships , our soldiers , are on a frontier now , almost ready to go to war with iraq .
now , what causes this ?
why do we have these wars in every generation , and in every part of the world ?
and revolutions ?
we can 't get along with other people , even in our own families .
we find ourselves in the paralyzing grip of self-destructive habits we can 't break .
racism and injustice and violence sweep our world , bringing a tragic harvest of heartache and death .
even the most sophisticated among us seem powerless to break this cycle .
i would like to see oracle take up that , or some other technological geniuses work on this .
how do we change man , so that he doesn 't lie and cheat , and our newspapers are not filled with stories of fraud in business or labor or athletics or wherever ?
the bible says the problem is within us , within our hearts and our souls .
our problem is that we are separated from our creator , which we call god , and we need to have our souls restored , something only god can do .
jesus said , " for out of the heart come evil thoughts : murders , sexual immorality , theft , false testimonies , slander . " the british philosopher bertrand russell was not a religious man , but he said , " it 's in our hearts that the evil lies , and it 's from our hearts that it must be plucked out . " albert einstein -- i was just talking to someone , when i was speaking at princeton , and i met mr. einstein .
he didn 't have a doctor 's degree , because he said nobody was qualified to give him one .
but he made this statement .
he said , " it 's easier to denature plutonium than to denature the evil spirit of man . " and many of you , i 'm sure , have thought about that and puzzled over it .
you 've seen people take beneficial technological advances , such as the internet we 've heard about tonight , and twist them into something corrupting .
you 've seen brilliant people devise computer viruses that bring down whole systems .
the oklahoma city bombing was simple technology , horribly used .
the problem is not technology .
the problem is the person or persons using it .
king david said that he knew the depths of his own soul .
he couldn 't free himself from personal problems and personal evils that included murder and adultery .
yet king david sought god 's forgiveness , and said , " you can restore my soul . " you see , the bible teaches that we 're more than a body and a mind .
we are a soul .
and there 's something inside of us that is beyond our understanding .
that 's the part of us that yearns for god , or something more than we find in technology .
your soul is that part of you that yearns for meaning in life , and which seeks for something beyond this life .
it 's the part of you that yearns , really , for god .
i find [ that ] young people all over the world are searching for something .
they don 't know what it is . i speak at many universities , and i have many questions and answer periods , and whether it 's cambridge , or harvard , or oxford -- i 've spoken at all of those universities .
i 'm going to harvard in about three or four -- no , it 's about two months from now -- to give a lecture .
and i 'll be asked the same questions that i was asked the last few times i 've been there .
and it 'll be on these questions : where did i come from ? why am i here ? where am i going ?
what 's life all about ? why am i here ?
even if you have no religious belief , there are times when you wonder that there 's something else .
thomas edison also said , " when you see everything that happens in the world of science , and in the working of the universe , you cannot deny that there 's a captain on the bridge . " i remember once , i sat beside mrs. gorbachev at a white house dinner .
i went to ambassador dobrynin , whom i knew very well . and i 'd been to russia several times under the communists , and they 'd given me marvelous freedom that i didn 't expect .
and i knew mr. dobrynin very well , and i said , " i 'm going to sit beside mrs. gorbachev tonight .
what shall i talk to her about ? " and he surprised me with the answer .
he said , " talk to her about religion and philosophy .
that 's what she 's really interested in . " i was a little bit surprised , but that evening that 's what we talked about , and it was a stimulating conversation . and afterward , she said , " you know , i 'm an atheist , but i know that there 's something up there higher than we are . " the second problem that king david realized he could not solve was the problem of human suffering .
writing the oldest book in the world was job , and he said , " man is born unto trouble as the sparks fly upward . " yes , to be sure , science has done much to push back certain types of human suffering .
but i 'm -- in a few months , i 'll be 80 years of age .
i admit that i 'm very grateful for all the medical advances that have kept me in relatively good health all these years .
my doctors at the mayo clinic urged me not to take this trip out here to this -- to be here .
i haven 't given a talk in nearly four months .
and when you speak as much as i do , three or four times a day , you get rusty .
that 's the reason i 'm using this podium and using these notes .
every time you ever hear me on the television or somewhere , i 'm not reading . i never read an address .
i never read a speech or a talk or a lecture .
i talk ad lib .
but tonight , i 've got some notes here so that if i begin to forget , which i do sometimes , i 've got something i can turn to .
but even here among us , most -- in the most advanced society in the world , we have poverty .
we have families that self-destruct , friends that betray us .
unbearable psychological pressures bear down on us .
i 've never met a person in the world or a worry .
why do we suffer ? it 's an age-old question that we haven 't answered .
yet david again and again said that he would turn to god .
he said , " the lord is my shepherd . " the final problem that david knew he could not solve was death .
many commentators have said that death is the forbidden subject of our generation .
most people live as if they 're never going to die .
technology projects the myth of control over our mortality .
we see people on our screens .
marilyn monroe is just as beautiful on the screen as she was in person , and our -- many young people think she 's still alive .
they don 't know that she 's dead .
or clark gable , or whoever it is .
the old stars , they come to life .
and they 're -- they 're just as great on that screen as they were in person .
but death is inevitable .
i spoke some time ago to a joint session of congress , last year .
and we were meeting in that room , the statue room . about 300 of them were there .
and i said , " there 's one thing that we have in common in this room , all of us together , whether republican or democrat , or whoever . " i said , " we 're all going to die . and we have that in common with all these great men of the past that are staring down at us . "
and it 's often difficult for young people to understand that .
it 's difficult for them to understand that they 're going to die .
as the ancient writer of ecclesiastes wrote , he said , there 's every activity under heaven .
there 's a time to be born , and there 's a time to die .
i 've stood at the deathbed of several famous people , whom you would know .
i 've talked to them .
i 've seen them in those agonizing moments when they were scared to death .
and yet , a few years earlier , death never crossed their mind .
i talked to a woman this past week whose father was a famous doctor .
she said he never thought of god , never talked about god , didn 't believe in god . he was an atheist .
but she said , as he came to die , he sat up on the side of the bed one day , and he asked the nurse if he could see the chaplain .
and he said , for the first time in his life he 'd thought about the inevitable , and about god .
was there a god ?
a few years ago , a university student asked me , " what is the greatest surprise in your life ? " and i said , " the greatest surprise in my life is the brevity of life .
it passes so fast . "
but it does not need to have to be that way .
wernher von braun , in the aftermath of world war ii concluded , quote : " science and religion are not antagonists .
on the contrary , they 're sisters . " he put it on a personal basis .
i knew dr. von braun very well .
and he said , " speaking for myself , i can only say that the grandeur of the cosmos serves only to confirm a belief in the certainty of a creator . "
he also said , " in our search to know god , i 've come to believe that the life of jesus christ should be the focus of our efforts and inspiration .
the reality of this life and his resurrection is the hope of mankind . " i 've done a lot of speaking in germany and in france , and in different parts of the world -- 105 countries it 's been my privilege to speak in .
and i was invited one day to visit chancellor adenauer , who was looked upon as sort of the founder of modern germany , since the war .
and he once -- and he said to me , he said , " young man . " he said , " do you believe in the resurrection of jesus christ ? " and i said , " sir , i do . " he said , " so do i. " he said , " when i leave office , i 'm going to spend my time writing a book on why jesus christ rose again , and why it 's so important to believe that . " in one of his plays , alexander solzhenitsyn depicts a man dying , who says to those gathered around his bed , " the moment when it 's terrible to feel regret is when one is dying . " how should one live in order not to feel regret when one is dying ?
blaise pascal asked exactly that question in seventeenth-century france .
pascal has been called the architect of modern civilization .
he was a brilliant scientist at the frontiers of mathematics , even as a teenager .
he is viewed by many as the founder of the probability theory , and a creator of the first model of a computer .
and of course , you are all familiar with the computer language named for him .
pascal explored in depth our human dilemmas of evil , suffering and death .
he was astounded at the phenomenon we 've been considering : that people can achieve extraordinary heights in science , the arts and human enterprise , yet they also are full of anger , hypocrisy and have -- and self-hatreds .
pascal saw us as a remarkable mixture of genius and self-delusion .
on november 23 , 1654 , pascal had a profound religious experience .
he wrote in his journal these words : " i submit myself , absolutely , to jesus christ , my redeemer . " a french historian said , two centuries later , " seldom has so mighty an intellect submitted with such humility to the authority of jesus christ . " pascal came to believe not only the love and the grace of god could bring us back into harmony , but he believed that his own sins and failures could be forgiven , and that when he died he would go to a place called heaven .
he experienced it in a way that went beyond scientific observation and reason .
it was he who penned the well-known words , " the heart has its reasons , which reason knows not of . " equally well known is pascal 's wager .
essentially , he said this : " if you bet on god , and open yourself to his love , you lose nothing , even if you 're wrong .
but if instead you bet that there is no god , then you can lose it all , in this life and the life to come . " for pascal , scientific knowledge paled beside the knowledge of god .
the knowledge of god was far beyond anything that ever crossed his mind .
he was ready to face him when he died at the age of 39 .
king david lived to be 70 , a long time in his era .
yet he too had to face death , and he wrote these words : " even though i walk through the valley of the shadow of death , i will fear no evil , for you are with me . " this was david 's answer to three dilemmas of evil , suffering and death .
it can be yours , as well , as you seek the living god and allow him to fill your life and give you hope for the future .
when i was 17 years of age , i was born and reared on a farm in north carolina .
i milked cows every morning , and i had to milk the same cows every evening when i came home from school . and there were 20 of them that i had -- that i was responsible for , and i worked on the farm and tried to keep up with my studies .
i didn 't make good grades in high school .
i didn 't make them in college , until something happened in my heart .
one day , i was faced face-to-face with christ .
he said , " i am the way , the truth and the life . " can you imagine that ? " i am the truth .
i 'm the embodiment of all truth . " he was a liar .
or he was insane .
or he was what he claimed to be .
which was he ?
i had to make that decision .
i couldn 't prove it .
i couldn 't take it to a laboratory and experiment with it .
but by faith i said , i believe him , and he came into my heart and changed my life .
and now i 'm ready , when i hear that call , to go into the presence of god .
thank you , and god bless all of you .
thank you for the privilege . it was great .
richard wurman : you did it .
thanks .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / suheir _ hammad _ poems _ of _ war _ peace _ women _ power.html
poet suheir hammad performs two spine-tingling spoken-word pieces : " what i will " and " break " -- meditations on war and peace , on women and power . wait for the astonishing line : " do not fear what has blown up . if you must , fear the unexploded . "
arts , culture , global issues , poetry , war , women
1068
suheir hammad : poems of war , peace , women , power
" what i will " i will not dance to your war drum .
i will not lend my soul nor my bones to your war drum .
i will not dance to that beating .
i know that beat .
it is lifeless .
i know intimately that skin you are hitting .
it was alive once , hunted , stolen , stretched .
i will not dance to your drummed-up war .
i will not pop , spin , break for you .
i will not hate for you or even hate you .
i will not kill for you .
especially i will not die for you .
i will not mourn the dead with murder nor suicide .
i will not side with you or dance to bombs because everyone is dancing .
everyone can be wrong .
life is a right , not collateral or casual .
i will not forget where i come from .
i will craft my own drum .
gather my beloved near , and our chanting will be dancing .
our humming will be drumming .
i will not be played .
i will not lend my name nor my rhythm to your beat .
i will dance and resist and dance and persist and dance .
this heartbeat is louder than death .
your war drum ain 't louder than this breath . haaa .
what 's up ted people ? let me hear you make some noise .
a bunch of pacifists .
confused , aspiring pacifists .
i understand .
i 've been wrong a lot lately .
like a lot .
so i couldn 't figure out what to read today .
i mean , i 've been saying i 've been prepping .
what that means is prepping my outfit , prepping options , trying to figure out what i 'm coming behind and going in front of .
poetry does that .
it preps you . it aims you .
so i am going to read a poem that was chosen just now .
but i 'm going to need you to just sit for like 10 minutes and hold a woman who is not here .
hold her now with you .
you don 't need to say her name out loud , you can just hold her .
are you holding her ?
this is " break clustered . " all holy history banned .
unwritten books predicted the future , projected the past .
but my head unwraps around what appears limitless , man 's creative violence .
whose son shall it be ?
which male child will perish a new day ?
our boys ' deaths galvanize .
we cherish corpses .
we mourn women , complicated .
bitches get beat daily .
profits made , prophets ignored .
war and tooth , enameled salted lemon childhoods .
all colors run , none of us solid .
don 't look for shadow behind me . i carry it within .
i live cycles of light and darkness .
rhythm is half silence .
i see now , i never was one and not the other .
sickness , health , tender violence .
i think now i never was pure .
before form i was storm , blind , ign 'ant -- still am .
human contracted itself blind , malignant .
i never was pure .
girl spoiled before ripened .
language can 't math me .
i experience exponentially .
everything is everything .
one woman loses 15 , maybe 20 , members of her family .
one woman loses six .
one woman loses her head .
one woman searches rubble . one woman feeds on trash .
one woman shoots her face . one woman shoots her husband .
one woman straps herself .
one woman gives birth to a baby .
one woman gives birth to borders .
one woman no longer believes love will ever find her .
one woman never did .
where do refugee hearts go ?
broken , dissed , placed where they 're not from , don 't want to be missed .
faced with absence .
we mourn each one or we mean nothing at all .
my spine curves spiral .
precipice running to and running from human beings .
cluster bombs left behind .
de facto landmines .
a smoldering grief .
harvest contaminated tobacco .
harvest bombs .
harvest baby teeth . harvest palms , smoke .
harvest witness , smoke .
resolutions , smoke .
salvation , smoke .
redemption , smoke .
breathe .
do not fear what has blown up .
if you must , fear the unexploded . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / leymah _ gbowee _ unlock _ the _ intelligence _ passion _ greatness _ of _ girls.html
nobel peace prize winner leymah gbowee has two powerful stories to tell -- of her own life 's transformation , and of the untapped potential of girls around the world . can we transform the world by unlocking the greatness of girls ?
global issues , peace , social change , women
1403
leymah gbowee : unlock the intelligence , passion , greatness of girls
many times i go around the world to speak , and people ask me questions about the challenges , my moments , some of my regrets .
1998 : a single mother of four , three months after the birth of my fourth child , i went to do a job as a research assistant .
i went to northern liberia .
and as part of the work , the village would give you lodgings .
and they gave me lodging with a single mother and her daughter .
this girl happened to be the only girl in the entire village who had made it to the ninth grade .
she was the laughing stock of the community .
her mother was often told by other women , " you and your child will die poor . " after two weeks of working in that village , it was time to go back .
the mother came to me , knelt down , and said , " leymah , take my daughter .
i wish for her to be a nurse . " dirt poor , living in the home with my parents , i couldn 't afford to .
with tears in my eyes , i said , " no . " two months later , i go to another village on the same assignment and they asked me to live with the village chief .
the women 's chief of the village has this little girl , fair color like me , totally dirty .
and all day she walked around only in her underwear .
when i asked , " who is that ? "
she said , " that 's wei .
the meaning of her name is pig .
her mother died while giving birth to her , and no one had any idea who her father was . "
for two weeks , she became my companion , slept with me .
i bought her used clothes and bought her her first doll .
the night before i left , she came to the room and said , " leymah , don 't leave me here .
i wish to go with you .
i wish to go to school . " dirt poor , no money , living with my parents , i again said , " no . " two months later , both of those villages fell into another war .
till today , i have no idea where those two girls are .
fast-forward , 2004 : in the peak of our activism , the minister of gender liberia called me and said , " leymah , i have a nine-year-old for you .
i want you to bring her home because we don 't have safe homes . " the story of this little girl : she had been raped by her paternal grandfather every day for six months .
she came to me bloated , very pale .
every night i 'd come from work and lie on the cold floor .
she 'd lie beside me and say , " auntie , i wish to be well .
i wish to go to school . " 2010 : a young woman stands before president sirleaf and gives her testimony of how she and her siblings live together , their father and mother died during the war .
she 's 19 ; her dream is to go to college to be able to support them .
she 's highly athletic .
one of the things that happens is that she applies for a scholarship . full scholarship . she gets it .
her dream of going to school , her wish of being educated , is finally here .
she goes to school on the first day .
the director of sports who 's responsible for getting her into the program asks her to come out of class .
and for the next three years , her fate will be having sex with him every day , as a favor for getting her in school .
globally , we have policies , international instruments , work leaders .
great people have made commitments -- we will protect our children from want and from fear .
the u.n. has the convention on the rights of the child .
countries like america , we 've heard things like no child left behind .
other countries come with different things .
there is a millennium development called three that focuses on girls .
all of these great works by great people aimed at getting young people to where we want to get them globally , i think , has failed .
in liberia , for example , the teenage pregnancy rate is three to every 10 girls .
teen prostitution is at its peak .
in one community , we 're told , you wake up in the morning and see used condoms like used chewing gum paper .
girls as young as 12 being prostituted for less than a dollar a night .
it 's disheartening , it 's sad .
and then someone asked me , just before my tedtalk , a few days ago , " so where is the hope ? "
several years ago , a few friends of mine decided we needed to bridge the disconnect between our generation and the generation of young women .
it 's not enough to say you have two nobel laureates from the republic of liberia when your girls ' kids are totally out there and no hope , or seemingly no hope .
we created a space called the young girls transformative project .
we go into rural communities and all we do , like has been done in this room , is create the space .
when these girls sit , you unlock intelligence , you unlock passion , you unlock commitment , you unlock focus , you unlock great leaders .
today , we 've worked with over 300 .
and some of those girls who walked in the room very shy have taken bold steps , as young mothers , to go out there and advocate for the rights of other young women .
one young woman i met , teen mother of four , never thought about finishing high school , graduated successfully ; never thought about going to college , enrolled in college .
one day she said to me , " my wish is to finish college and be able to support my children . " she 's at a place where she can 't find money to go to school .
she sells water , sells soft drinks and sells recharge cards for cellphones .
and you would think she would take that money and put it back into her education .
juanita is her name .
she takes that money and finds single mothers in her community to send back to school .
says , " leymah , my wish is to be educated .
and if i can 't be educated , when i see some of my sisters being educated , my wish has been fulfilled .
i wish for a better life .
i wish for food for my children .
i wish that sexual abuse and exploitation in schools would stop . " this is the dream of the african girl .
several years ago , there was one african girl .
this girl had a son who wished for a piece of doughnut because he was extremely hungry .
angry , frustrated , really upset about the state of her society and the state of her children , this young girl started a movement , a movement of ordinary women banding together to build peace .
i will fulfill the wish .
this is another african girl 's wish .
i failed to fulfill the wish of those two girls .
i failed to do this .
these were the things that were going through the head of this other young woman -- i failed , i failed , i failed .
so i will do this .
women came out , protested a brutal dictator , fearlessly spoke .
not only did the wish of a piece of doughnut come true , the wish of peace came true .
this young woman wished also to go to school .
she went to school .
this young woman wished for other things to happen , it happened for her .
today , this young woman is me , a nobel laureate .
i 'm now on a journey to fulfill the wish , in my tiny capacity , of little african girls -- the wish of being educated .
we set up a foundation .
we 're giving full four-year scholarships to girls from villages that we see with potential .
i don 't have much to ask of you .
i 've also been to places in this u.s. , and i know that girls in this country also have wishes , a wish for a better life somewhere in the bronx , a wish for a better life somewhere in downtown l.a. , a wish for a better life somewhere in texas , a wish for a better life somewhere in new york , a wish for a better life somewhere in new jersey .
will you journey with me to help that girl , be it an african girl or an american girl or a japanese girl , fulfill her wish , fulfill her dream , achieve that dream ?
because all of these great innovators and inventors that we 've talked to and seen over the last few days are also sitting in tiny corners in different parts of the world , and all they 're asking us to do is create that space to unlock the intelligence , unlock the passion , unlock all of the great things that they hold within themselves .
let 's journey together . let 's journey together .
thank you .
chris anderson : thank you so much .
right now in liberia , what do you see as the main issue that troubles you ?
lg : i 've been asked to lead the liberian reconciliation initiative .
as part of my work , i 'm doing these tours in different villages and towns -- 13 , 15 hours on dirt roads -- and there is no community that i 've gone into that i haven 't seen intelligent girls .
but sadly , the vision of a great future , or the dream of a great future , is just a dream , because you have all of these vices .
teen pregnancy , like i said , is epidemic .
so what troubles me is that i was at that place and somehow i 'm at this place , and i just don 't want to be the only one at this place .
i 'm looking for ways for other girls to be with me .
i want to look back 20 years from now and see that there 's another liberian girl , ghanaian girl , nigerian girl , ethiopian girl standing on this ted stage .
and maybe , just maybe , saying , " because of that nobel laureate i 'm here today . " so i 'm troubled when i see them like there 's no hope .
but i 'm also not pessimistic , because i know it doesn 't take a lot to get them charged up .
ca : and in the last year , tell us one hopeful thing that you 've seen happening .
lg : i can tell you many hopeful things that i 've seen happening .
but in the last year , where president sirleaf comes from , her village , we went there to work with these girls .
and we could not find 25 girls in high school .
all of these girls went to the gold mine , and they were predominantly prostitutes doing other things .
we took 50 of those girls and we worked with them .
and this was at the beginning of elections .
this is one place where women were never -- even the older ones barely sat in the circle with the men .
these girls banded together and formed a group and launched a campaign for voter registration .
this is a real rural village .
and the theme they used was : " even pretty girls vote . "
they were able to mobilize young women .
but not only did they do that , they went to those who were running for seats to ask them , " what is it that you will give the girls of this community when you win ? " and one of the guys who already had a seat was very -- because liberia has one of the strongest rape laws , and he was one of those really fighting in parliament to overturn that law because he called it barbaric .
rape is not barbaric , but the law , he said , was barbaric .
and when the girls started engaging him , he was very hostile towards them .
these little girls turned to him and said , " we will vote you out of office . "
he 's out of office today .
ca : leymah , thank you . thank you so much for coming to ted .
lg : you 're welcome .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / nigel _ marsh _ how _ to _ make _ work _ life _ balance _ work.html
work-life balance , says nigel marsh , is too important to be left in the hands of your employer . at tedxsydney , marsh lays out an ideal day balanced between family time , personal time and productivity -- and offers some stirring encouragement to make it happen .
business , culture , work
1069
nigel marsh : how to make work-life balance work
what i thought i would do is i would start with a simple request .
i 'd like all of you to pause for a moment , you wretched weaklings , and take stock of your miserable existence .
now that was the advice that st. benedict gave his rather startled followers in the fifth century .
it was the advice that i decided to follow myself when i turned 40 .
up until that moment , i had been that classic corporate warrior -- i was eating too much , i was drinking too much , i was working too hard and i was neglecting the family .
and i decided that i would try and turn my life around .
in particular , i decided i would try to address the thorny issue of work-life balance .
so i stepped back from the workforce , and i spent a year at home with my wife and four young children .
but all i learned about work-life balance from that year was that i found it quite easy to balance work and life when i didn 't have any work .
not a very useful skill , especially when the money runs out .
so i went back to work , and i 've spent these seven years since struggling with , studying and writing about work-life balance .
and i have four observations i 'd like to share with you today .
the first is : if society 's to make any progress on this issue , we need an honest debate .
but the trouble is so many people talk so much rubbish about work-life balance .
all the discussions about flexi-time or dress-down fridays or paternity leave only serve to mask the core issue , which is that certain job and career choices are fundamentally incompatible with being meaningfully engaged on a day-to-day basis with a young family .
now the first step in solving any problem is acknowledging the reality of the situation you 're in .
and the reality of the society that we 're in is there are thousands and thousands of people out there leading lives of quiet , screaming desperation , where they work long , hard hours at jobs they hate to enable them to buy things they don 't need to impress people they don 't like .
it 's my contention that going to work on friday in jeans and [ a ] t-shirt isn 't really getting to the nub of the issue .
the second observation i 'd like to make is we need to face the truth that governments and corporations aren 't going to solve this issue for us .
we should stop looking outside . it 's up to us as individuals to take control and responsibility for the type of lives that we want to lead .
if you don 't design your life , someone else will design it for you , and you may just not like their idea of balance .
it 's particularly important -- this isn 't on the world wide web , is it ? i 'm about to get fired -- it 's particularly important that you never put the quality of your life in the hands of a commercial corporation .
now i 'm not talking here just about the bad companies -- the " abattoirs of the human soul , " as i call them .
i 'm talking about all companies .
because commercial companies are inherently designed to get as much out of you [ as ] they can get away with .
it 's in their nature ; it 's in their dna ; it 's what they do -- even the good , well-intentioned companies .
on the one hand , putting childcare facilities in the workplace is wonderful and enlightened .
on the other hand , it 's a nightmare -- it just means you spend more time at the bloody office .
we have to be responsible for setting and enforcing the boundaries that we want in our life .
the third observation is we have to be careful with the time frame that we choose upon which to judge our balance .
before i went back to work after my year at home , i sat down and i wrote out a detailed , step-by-step description of the ideal balanced day that i aspired to .
and it went like this : wake up well rested after a good night 's sleep .
have sex .
walk the dog .
have breakfast with my wife and children .
have sex again .
drive the kids to school on the way to the office .
do three hours ' work .
play a sport with a friend at lunchtime .
do another three hours ' work .
meet some mates in the pub for an early evening drink .
drive home for dinner with my wife and kids .
meditate for half an hour .
have sex .
walk the dog . have sex again .
go to bed .
how often do you think i have that day ?
we need to be realistic .
you can 't do it all in one day .
we need to elongate the time frame upon which we judge the balance in our life , but we need to elongate it without falling into the trap of the " i 'll have a life when i retire , when my kids have left home , when my wife has divorced me , my health is failing , i 've got no mates or interests left . " a day is too short ; " after i retire " is too long .
there 's got to be a middle way .
a fourth observation : we need to approach balance in a balanced way .
a friend came to see me last year -- and she doesn 't mind me telling this story -- a friend came to see me last year and said , " nigel , i 've read your book .
and i realize that my life is completely out of balance .
it 's totally dominated by work .
i work 10 hours a day ; i commute two hours a day .
all of my relationships have failed .
there 's nothing in my life apart from my work .
so i 've decided to get a grip and sort it out .
so i joined a gym . " now i don 't mean to mock , but being a fit 10-hour-a-day office rat isn 't more balanced ; it 's more fit .
lovely though physical exercise may be , there are other parts to life --
there 's the intellectual side ; there 's the emotional side ; there 's the spiritual side .
and to be balanced , i believe we have to attend to all of those areas -- not just do 50 stomach crunches .
now that can be daunting .
because people say , " bloody hell mate , i haven 't got time to get fit . you want me to go to church and call my mother . " and i understand .
i truly understand how that can be daunting .
but an incident that happened a couple of years ago gave me a new perspective .
my wife , who is somewhere in the audience today , called me up at the office and said , " nigel , you need to pick our youngest son " -- harry -- " up from school . " because she had to be somewhere else with the other three children for that evening .
so i left work an hour early that afternoon and picked harry up at the school gates .
we walked down to the local park , messed around on the swings , played some silly games .
i then walked him up the hill to the local cafe , and we shared a pizza for two , then walked down the hill to our home , and i gave him his bath and put him in his batman pajamas .
i then read him a chapter of roald dahl 's " james and the giant peach . "
i then put him to bed , tucked him in , gave him a kiss on his forehead and said , " goodnight , mate , " and walked out of his bedroom .
as i was walking out of his bedroom , he said , " dad ? " i went , " yes , mate ? " he went , " dad , this has been the best day of my life , ever . " i hadn 't done anything , hadn 't taken him to disney world or bought him a playstation .
now my point is the small things matter .
being more balanced doesn 't mean dramatic upheaval in your life .
with the smallest investment in the right places , you can radically transform the quality of your relationships and the quality of your life .
moreover , i think , it can transform society .
because if enough people do it , we can change society 's definition of success away from the moronically simplistic notion that the person with the most money when he dies wins , to a more thoughtful and balanced definition of what a life well lived looks like .
and that , i think , is an idea worth spreading .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / majora _ carter _ s _ tale _ of _ urban _ renewal.html
in an emotionally charged talk , macarthur-winning activist majora carter details her fight for environmental justice in the south bronx -- and shows how minority neighborhoods suffer most from flawed urban policy .
featured , macarthur grant , new york , activism , business , cities , environment , green , politics , pollution
53
majora carter : greening the ghetto
if you 're here today -- and i 'm very happy that you are -- you 've all heard about how sustainable development will save us from ourselves . however , when we 're not at ted , we are often told that a real sustainability policy agenda is just not feasible ,
especially in large , urban areas like new york city .
and that 's because most people with decision-making powers , in both the public and the private sector , really don 't feel as though they 're in danger .
the reason why i 'm here today , in part , is because of a dog : an abandoned puppy i found back in the rain , back in 1998 .
she turned out to be a much bigger dog than i 'd anticipated .
when she came into my life , we were fighting against a huge waste facility planned for the east river waterfront , despite the fact that our small part of new york city already handled more than 40 percent of the entire city 's commercial waste :
a sewage treatment pelletizing plant , a sewage sludge plant , four power plants , the world 's largest food distribution center , as well as other industries that bring more than 60,000 diesel truck trips to the area each week . the area also has one of the lowest ratios of parks to people in the city .
so when i was contacted by the parks department about a $ 10,000 seed grant initiative seed grant initiative to help develop waterfront projects , i thought they were really well-meaning , but a bit naive .
i 'd lived in this area all my life , and you could not get to the river because of all the lovely facilities that i 'd mentioned earlier . then , while jogging with my dog one morning , she pulled me into what i thought was just another illegal dump .
there were weeds and piles of garbage and other stuff that i won 't mention here , but she kept dragging me -- and lo and behold , at the end of that lot was the river .
i knew that this forgotten little street-end , abandoned like the dog that brought me there , was worth saving .
and i knew it would grow to become the proud beginnings of the community-led revitalization of the new south bronx .
and just like my new dog , it was an idea that got bigger than i 'd imagined . we garnered much support along the way .
and the hunts point riverside park became the first waterfront park that the south bronx had had in more than 60 years .
we leveraged that $ 10,000 seed grant more than 300 times into a $ 3 million park .
and , in the fall , i 'm actually going to -- i exchange marriage vows with my beloved . thank you very much .
that 's him pressing my buttons back there , which he does all the time .
but those of us living in environmental justice communities are the canary in the coalmine . we feel the problems right now , and have for some time .
environmental justice , for those of you who may not be familiar with the term , goes something like this : no community should be saddled with more environmental burdens and less environmental benefits than any other .
unfortunately , race and class are extremely reliable indicators as to where one might find the good stuff , like parks and trees , and where one might find the bad stuff , like power plants and waste facilities .
as a black person in america , i am twice as likely as a white person to live in an area where air pollution poses the greatest risk to my health .
i am five times more likely to live within walking distance of a power plant or chemical facility -- which i do .
these land-use decisions created the hostile conditions that lead to problems like obesity , diabetes and asthma .
why would someone leave their home to go for a brisk walk in a toxic neighborhood ?
our 27 percent obesity rate is high , even for this country , and diabetes comes with it .
one out of four south bronx children has asthma .
our asthma hospitalization rate is seven times higher than the national average .
these impacts are coming everyone 's way .
and we all pay dearly for solid waste costs , health problems associated with pollution and more odiously , the cost of imprisoning our young black and latino men , who possess untold amounts of untapped potential .
50 percent of our residents live at or below the poverty line .
25 percent of us are unemployed . low-income citizens often use emergency room visits as primary care .
this comes at a high cost to taxpayers and produces no proportional benefits .
poor people are not only still poor ; they are still unhealthy .
fortunately , there are many people like me who are striving for solutions that won 't compromise the lives of low-income communities of color in the short term , and won 't destroy us all in the long term .
none of us want that , and we all have that in common . so what else do we have in common ?
well , first of all , we 're all incredibly good-looking -- -- graduated high school , college , post-graduate degrees , traveled to interesting places , didn 't have kids in your early teens ,
financially stable , never been imprisoned . ok .
good .
but , besides being a black woman , i am different from most of you in some other ways .
i watched nearly half of the buildings in my neighborhood burn down .
my big brother lenny fought in vietnam , only to be gunned down a few blocks from our home .
jesus . i grew up with a crack house across the street .
yeah , i 'm a poor black child from the ghetto .
these things make me different from you .
but the things we have in common set me apart from most of the people in my community , and i am in between these two worlds , with enough of my heart to fight for justice in the other .
so how did things get so different for us ?
in the late ' 40s , my dad -- a pullman porter , son of a slave -- bought a house in the hunts point section of the south bronx , and a few years later he married my mom .
at the time , the community was a mostly white , working-class neighborhood .
my dad was not alone .
and as others like him pursued their own version of the american dream , white flight became common in the south bronx and in many cities around the country .
red-lining was used by banks , wherein certain sections of the city , including ours , were deemed off-limits to any sort of investment .
many landlords believed it was more profitable to torch their buildings and collect insurance money rather than to sell under those conditions -- dead or injured former tenants notwithstanding .
hunts point was formerly a walk-to-work community , but now residents had neither work nor home to walk to .
a national highway construction boom was added to our problems .
in new york state , robert moses spearheaded an aggressive highway expansion campaign .
one of its primary goals was to make it easier for residents of wealthy communities in westchester county to go to manhattan .
the south bronx , which lies in between , did not stand a chance .
residents were often given less than a month 's notice before their buildings were razed .
600,000 people were displaced .
the common perception was that only pimps and pushers and prostitutes were from the south bronx .
and if you are told from your earliest days that nothing good is going to come from your community , that is bad and ugly , how could it not reflect on you ?
so now , my family 's property was worthless , save for that it was our home and all we had .
and luckily for me , that home and the love inside of it , along with help from teachers , mentors and friends along the way , was enough .
now , why is this story important ?
because from a planning perspective , economic degradation begets environmental degradation , which begets social degradation .
the disinvestment that began in the 1960s set the stage for all the environmental injustices that were to come .
antiquated zoning and land-use regulations are still used to this day to continue putting polluting facilities in my neighborhood .
are these factors taken into consideration when land-use policy is decided ?
what costs are associated with these decisions ? and who pays ?
who profits ? does anything justify what the local community goes through ?
this was " planning " -- in quotes -- that did not have our best interests in mind .
once we realized that , we decided it was time to do our own planning .
that small park i told you about earlier was the first stage of building a greenway movement in the south bronx .
i wrote a one-and-a-quarter-million dollar federal transportation grant to design the plan for a waterfront esplanade with dedicated on-street bike paths .
physical improvements help inform public policy regarding traffic safety , the placement of the waste and other facilities , which , if done properly , don 't compromise a community 's quality of life .
they provide opportunities to be more physically active , as well as local economic development .
think bike shops , juice stands .
we secured 20 million dollars to build first-phase projects .
this is lafayette avenue -- and as redesigned by matthews-nielsen landscape architects .
and once this path is constructed , it 'll connect the south bronx with more than 400 acres of randall 's island park .
right now we 're separated by about 25 feet of water , but this link will change that .
as we nurture the natural environment , its abundance will give us back even more .
we run a project called the bronx ecological stewardship training , which provides job training in the fields of ecological restorations , so that folks from our community have the skills to compete for these well-paying jobs .
little by little , we 're seeding the area with green collar jobs -- then the people that have both a financial and personal stake in their environment .
the sheridan expressway is an underutilized relic of the robert moses era , built with no regard for the neighborhoods that were divided by it .
even during rush hour , it goes virtually unused .
the community created an alternative transportation plan that allows for the removal of the highway .
we have the opportunity now to bring together all the stakeholders to re-envision how this 28 acres can be better utilized for parkland , affordable housing and local economic development .
we also built the city 's -- new york city 's first green and cool roof demonstration project on top of our offices .
cool roofs are highly reflective surfaces that don 't absorb solar heat and pass it on to the building or atmosphere .
green roofs are soil and living plants .
both can be used instead of petroleum-based roofing materials that absorb heat , contribute to urban " heat island " effect and degrade under the sun , which we in turn breathe . green roofs also retain up to 75 percent of rainfall , so they reduce a city 's need to fund costly end-of-pipe solutions -- which , incidentally , are often located in environmental justice communities like mine .
and they provide habitats for our little friends !
so -- -- so cool !
anyway , the demonstration project is a springboard for our own green roof installation business , bringing jobs and sustainable economic activity to the south bronx .
i like that , too .
anyway , i know chris told us not to do pitches up here , but since i have all of your attention : we need investors . end of pitch .
it 's better to ask for forgiveness than permission .
anyway -- ok . katrina . prior to katrina , the south bronx and new orleans ' ninth ward had a lot in common . both were largely populated by poor people of color , both hotbeds of cultural innovation : think hip-hop and jazz .
both are waterfront communities that host both industries and residents in close proximity of one another .
in the post-katrina era , we have still more in common .
we 're at best ignored and maligned and abused , at worst , by negligent regulatory agencies , pernicious zoning and lax governmental accountability .
neither the destruction of the ninth ward nor the south bronx was inevitable .
but we have emerged with valuable lessons about how to dig ourselves out .
we are more than simply national symbols of urban blight . or problems to be solved by empty campaign promises of presidents come and gone .
now will we let the gulf coast languish for a decade or two like the south bronx did ?
or will we take proactive steps and learn from the homegrown resource of grassroots activists that have been born of desperation in communities like mine ?
now listen , i do not expect individuals , corporations or government to make the world a better place because it is right or moral .
this presentation today only represents some of what i 've been through , like a tiny little bit . you 've no clue .
but i 'll tell you later if you want to know .
but -- i know it 's the bottom line , or one 's perception of it , that motivates people in the end .
i 'm interested in what i like to call the " triple bottom line " that sustainable development can produce .
developments that have the potential to create positive returns for all concerned : the developers , government and the community where these projects go up .
at present , that 's not happening in new york city .
and we are operating with a comprehensive urban planning deficit .
a parade of government subsidies is going to proposed big-box and stadium developments in the south bronx , but there is scant coordination between city agencies on how to deal with the cumulative effects of increased traffic , pollution , solid waste and the impacts on open space . and their approaches to local economic and job development are so lame it 's not even funny .
because on top of that , the world 's richest sports team is replacing the house that ruth built by destroying two well-loved community parks .
now , we 'll have even less than that stat i told you about earlier .
and although less than 25 percent of south bronx residents own cars , these projects include thousands of new parking spaces , yet zip in terms of mass public transit .
now , what 's missing from the larger debate is a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis between not fixing an unhealthy , environmentally challenged community , versus incorporating structural , sustainable changes .
my agency is working closely with columbia university and others to shine a light on these issues .
now let 's get this straight . i am not anti-development .
ours is a city , not a wilderness preserve . and i 've embraced my inner capitalist .
you probably all have it , and if you haven 't , you need to .
so i don 't have a problem with developers making money .
there 's enough precedent out there to show that a sustainable , community-friendly development can still make a fortune .
fellow tedsters bill mcdonough and amory lovins -- both heroes of mine by the way -- have shown that you can actually do that .
i do have a problem with developments that hyper-exploit politically vulnerable communities for profit .
that it continues is a shame upon us all , because we are all responsible for the future that we create .
but one of the things i do to remind myself of greater possibilities is to learn from visionaries in other cities .
this is my version of globalization .
let 's take bogota . poor , latino , surrounded by runaway gun violence and drug trafficking : a reputation not unlike that of the south bronx .
however , this city was blessed in the late 1990s with a highly influential mayor named enrique penalosa .
he looked at the demographics .
few bogatanos own cars , yet a huge portion of the city 's resources was dedicated to serving them .
if you 're a mayor , you can do something about that .
his administration narrowed key municipal thoroughfares from five lanes to three , outlawed parking on those streets , expanded pedestrian walkways and bike lanes , created public plazas , created one of the most efficient bus mass-transit systems in the entire world .
for his brilliant efforts , he was nearly impeached .
but as people began to see that they were being put first on issues reflecting their day-to-day lives , incredible things happened .
people stopped littering ; crime rates dropped --
because the streets were alive with people .
his administration attacked several typical urban problems at one time , and on a third-world budget at that .
we have no excuse in this country . i 'm sorry .
but the bottom line is : their people-first agenda was not meant to penalize those who could actually afford cars , but rather to provide opportunities for all bogatanos to participate in the city 's resurgence . that development should not come at the expense of the majority of the population is still considered a radical idea here in the us .
but bogota 's example has the power to change that . you , however , are blessed with the gift of influence .
that 's why you 're here and why you value the information we exchange .
use your influence in support of comprehensive sustainable change everywhere .
don 't just talk about it at ted . this is a nationwide policy agenda i 'm trying to build , and as you all know , politics are personal .
help me make green the new black . help me make sustainability sexy .
make it a part of your dinner and cocktail conversations .
help me fight for environmental and economic justice .
support investments with a triple-bottom-line return .
help me democratize sustainability by bringing everyone to the table and insisting that comprehensive planning can be addressed everywhere .
oh good , glad i have a little more time !
listen -- when i spoke to mr. gore the other day after breakfast , i asked him how environmental justice activists were going to be included in his new marketing strategy .
his response was a grant program .
i don 't think he understood that i wasn 't asking for funding .
i was making him an offer .
what troubled me was that this top-down approach is still around .
now , don 't get me wrong , we need money .
but grassroots groups are needed at the table during the decision-making process .
of the 90 percent of the energy that mr. gore reminded us that we waste every day , don 't add wasting our energy , intelligence and hard-earned experience to that count .
i have come from so far to meet you like this .
please don 't waste me . by working together , we can become one of those small , rapidly growing groups of individuals who actually have the audacity and courage to believe that we actually can change the world .
we might have come to this conference from very , very different stations in life , but believe me , we all share one incredibly powerful thing : we have nothing to lose and everything to gain .
ciao bellos !
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / hans _ rosling _ reveals _ new _ insights _ on _ poverty.html
researcher hans rosling uses his cool data tools to show how countries are pulling themselves out of poverty . he demos dollar street , comparing households of varying income levels worldwide . then he does something really amazing .
africa , asia , google , development , economics , global issues , health , statistics , visualizations
140
hans rosling 's new insights on poverty
i told you three things last year .
i told you that the statistics of the world have not been made properly available .
because of that , we still have the old mindset of developing in industrialized countries , which is wrong .
and that animated graphics can make a difference .
things are changing
and today , on the united nations statistic division home page , it says , by first of may , full access to the databases .
and if i could share the image with you on the screen .
so three things have happened .
u.n. opened their statistic databases , and we have a new version of the software up working as a beta on the net , so you don 't have to download it any longer . and let me repeat what you saw last year .
the bubbles are the countries .
here you have the fertility rate -- the number of children per woman -- and there you have the length of life in years .
this is 1950 -- those were the industrialized countries , those were developing countries .
at that time there was a " we " and " them . "
there was a huge difference in the world .
but then it changed , and it went on quite well .
and this is what happens .
you can see how china is the red , big bubble . the blue there is india .
a little more serious this year in showing you how things really changed .
and it 's africa that stands out as the problem down here , doesn 't it ?
large families still , and the hiv epidemic brought down the countries like this .
this is more or less what we saw last year , and this is how it will go on into the future .
and i will talk on , is this possible ?
because you see now , i presented statistics that don 't exist .
because this is where we are .
will it be possible that this will happen ?
i cover my lifetime here , you know ?
i expect to live 100 years .
and this is where we are today .
now could we look here instead at the economic situation in the world ?
and i would like to show that against child survival .
we 'll swap the axis . here you have child mortality -- that is , survival -- four kids dying there , 200 dying there .
and this is gdp per capita on this axis .
and this was 2007 .
and if i go back in time , i 've added some historical statistics -- here we go , here we go , here we go -- not so much statistics 100 years ago .
some countries still had statistics .
we are looking down in the archive , and when we are down into 1820 , there is only austria and sweden that can produce numbers .
but they were down here . they had 1,000 dollars per person per year .
and they lost one-fifth of their kids before their first birthday .
so this is what happens in the world , if we play the entire world . how they got slowly richer and richer , and they add statistics .
isn 't it beautiful when they get statistics ?
you see the importance of that ?
and here , children don 't live longer .
the last century , 1870 , was bad for the kids in europe , because most of this statistics is europe .
it was only by the turn of the century that more than 90 percent of the children survived their first year .
this is india coming up , with the first data from india .
and this is the united states moving away here , earning more money .
and we will soon see china coming up in the very far end corner here .
and it moves up with mao tse-tung getting health , not getting so rich .
there he died , then deng xiaoping brings money . it moves this way over here .
and the bubbles keep moving up there , and this is what the world looks like today .
let us have a look at the united states .
we have a function here -- i can tell the world , " stay where you are . " and i take the united states -- we still want to see the background -- i put them up like this , and now we go backwards .
and we can see that the united states goes to the right of the mainstream .
they are on the money side all the time .
and down in 1915 , the united states was a neighbor of india -- present , contemporary india .
and that means united states was richer , but lost more kids than india is doing today , proportionally .
and look here -- compare to the philippines of today .
the philippines of today has almost the same economy as the united states during the first world war .
but we have to bring united states forward quite a while to find the same health of the united states as we have in the philippines .
about 1957 here , the health of the united states is the same as the philippines .
and this is the drama of this world which many call globalized , is that asia , arabic countries , latin america , are much more ahead in being healthy , educated , having human resources than they are economically .
there 's a discrepancy in what 's happening today in the emerging economies .
there now , social benefits , social progress , are going ahead of economical progress .
and 1957 -- the united states had the same economy as chile has today .
and how long do we have to bring united states to get the same health as chile has today ?
i think we have to go , there -- we have 2001 , or 2002 -- the united states has the same health as chile .
chile 's catching up !
within some years chile may have better child survival than the united states .
this is really a change , that you have this lag of more or less 30 , 40 years ' difference on the health .
and behind the health is the educational level .
and there 's a lot of infrastructure things , and general human resources are there .
now we can take away this -- and i would like to show you the rate of speed , the rate of change , how fast they have gone .
and we go back to 1920 , and i want to look at japan .
and i want to look at sweden and the united states .
and i 'm going to stage a race here between this sort of yellowish ford here and the red toyota down there , and the brownish volvo . and here we go . here we go .
the toyota has a very bad start down here , you can see , and the united states ford is going off-road there .
and the volvo is doing quite fine .
this is the war . the toyota got off track , and now the toyota is coming on the healthier side of sweden -- can you see that ?
and they are taking over sweden , and they are now healthier than sweden .
that 's the part where i sold the volvo and bought the toyota .
and now we can see that the rate of change was enormous in japan .
they really caught up .
and this changes gradually .
we have to look over generations to understand it .
and let me show you my own sort of family history -- we made these graphs here .
and this is the same thing , money down there , and health , you know ?
and this is my family .
this is sweden , 1830 , when my great-great-grandma was born .
sweden was like sierra leone today .
and this is when great-grandma was born , 1863 .
and sweden was like mozambique .
and this is when my grandma was born , 1891 .
she took care of me as a child , so i 'm not talking about statistic now -- now it 's oral history in my family .
that 's when i believe statistics , when it 's grandma-verified statistics .
i think it 's the best way of verifying historical statistics .
sweden was like ghana .
it 's interesting to see the enormous diversity within sub-saharan africa .
i told you last year , i 'll tell you again , my mother was born in egypt , and i -- who am i ?
i 'm the mexican in the family .
and my daughter , she was born in chile , and the grand-daughter was born in singapore , now the healthiest country on this earth .
it bypassed sweden about two to three years ago , with better child survival .
but they 're very small , you know ?
they 're so close to the hospital we can never beat them out in these forests .
but homage to singapore .
singapore is the best one .
now this looks also like a very good story .
but it 's not really that easy , that it 's all a good story .
because i have to show you one of the other facilities .
we can also make the color here represent the variable -- and what am i choosing here ?
carbon-dioxide emission , metric ton per capita .
this is 1962 , and united states was emitting 16 tons per person .
and china was emitting 0.6 , and india was emitting 0.32 tons per capita .
and what happens when we moved on ?
well , you see the nice story of getting richer and getting healthier --
everyone did it at the cost of emission of carbon dioxide .
there is no one who has done it so far .
and we don 't have all the updated data any longer , because this is really hot data today .
and there we are , 2001 .
and in the discussion i attended with global leaders , you know , many say now the problem is that the emerging economies , they are getting out too much carbon dioxide .
the minister of the environment of india said , " well , you were the one who caused the problem . "
the oecd countries -- the high-income countries -- they were the ones who caused the climate change .
" but we forgive you , because you didn 't know it .
but from now on , we count per capita .
from now on we count per capita .
and everyone is responsible for the per capita emission . " this really shows you , we have not seen good economic and health progress anywhere in the world without destroying the climate .
and this is really what has to be changed .
i 've been criticized for showing you a too positive image of the world , but i don 't think it 's like this .
the world is quite a messy place .
this we can call dollar street .
everyone lives on this street here .
what they earn here -- what number they live on -- is how much they earn per day .
this family earns about one dollar per day .
we drive up the street here , we find a family here which earns about two to three dollars a day .
and we drive away here -- we find the first garden in the street , and they earn 10 to 50 dollars a day .
and how do they live ?
if we look at the bed here , we can see that they sleep on a rug on the floor .
this is what poverty line is -- 80 percent of the family income is just to cover the energy needs , the food for the day .
this is two to five dollars . you have a bed .
and here it 's a much nicer bedroom , you can see .
i lectured on this for ikea , and they wanted to see the sofa immediately here .
and this is the sofa , how it will emerge from there .
and the interesting thing , when you go around here in the photo panorama , you see the family still sitting on the floor there . although there is a sofa ,
if you watch in the kitchen , you can see that the great difference for women does not come between one to 10 dollars .
it comes beyond here , when you really can get good working conditions in the family .
and if you really want to see the difference , you look at the toilet over here .
this can change . this can change .
these are all pictures and images from africa , and it can become much better .
we can get out of poverty .
my own research has not been in it or anything like this .
i spent 20 years in interviews with african farmers who were on the verge of famine .
and this is the result of the farmers-needs research .
the nice thing here is that you can 't see who are the researchers in this picture .
that 's when research functions in poor societies -- you must really live with the people .
when you 're in poverty , everything is about survival .
it 's about having food .
and these two young farmers , they are girls now -- because the parents are dead from hiv and aids -- they discuss with a trained agronomist .
this is one of the best agronomists in malawi , junatambe kumbira , and he 's discussing what sort of cassava they will plant -- the best converter of sunshine to food that man has found .
and they are very , very eagerly interested to get advice , and that 's to survive in poverty .
that 's one context .
getting out of poverty .
the women told us one thing . " get us technology .
we hate this mortar , to stand hours and hours .
get us a mill so that we can mill our flour , then we will be able to pay for the rest ourselves . " technology will bring you out of poverty , but there 's a need for a market to get away from poverty .
and this woman is very happy now , bringing her products to the market .
but she 's very thankful for the public investment in schooling so she can count , and won 't be cheated when she reaches the market .
she wants her kid to be healthy , so she can go to the market and doesn 't have to stay home .
and she wants the infrastructure -- it is nice with a paved road .
it 's also good with credit .
micro-credits gave her the bicycle , you know .
and information will tell her when to go to market with which product .
you can do this .
i find my experience from 20 years of africa is that the seemingly impossible is possible .
africa has not done bad .
in 50 years they 've gone from a pre-medieval situation to a very decent 100-year-ago europe , with a functioning nation and state .
i would say that sub-saharan africa has done best in the world during the last 50 years .
because we don 't consider where they came from .
it 's this stupid concept of developing countries that puts us , argentina and mozambique together 50 years ago , and says that mozambique did worse .
we have to know a little more about the world .
i have a neighbor who knows 200 types of wine .
he knows everything .
he knows the name of the grape , the temperature and everything .
i only know two types of wine -- red and white .
but my neighbor only knows two types of countries -- industrialized and developing .
and i know 200 , i know about the small data .
but you can do that .
but i have to get serious . and how do you get serious ?
you make a powerpoint , you know ?
homage to the office package , no ?
what is this , what is this , what am i telling ?
i 'm telling you that there are many dimensions of development .
everyone wants your pet thing .
if you are in the corporate sector , you love micro-credit .
if you are fighting in a non-governmental organization , you love equity between gender .
or if you are a teacher , you 'll love unesco , and so on .
on the global level , we have to have more than our own thing .
we need everything .
all these things are important for development , especially when you just get out of poverty and you should go towards welfare .
now , what we need to think about is , what is a goal for development , and what are the means for development ?
let me first grade what are the most important means .
economic growth to me , as a public-health professor , is the most important thing for development because it explains 80 percent of survival .
governance . to have a government which functions -- that 's what brought california out of the misery of 1850 .
it was the government that made law function finally .
education , human resources are important .
health is also important , but not that much as a mean .
environment is important .
human rights is also important , but it just gets one cross .
now what about goals ? where are we going toward ?
we are not interested in money .
money is not a goal .
it 's the best mean , but i give it zero as a goal .
governance , well it 's fun to vote in a little thing , but it 's not a goal .
and going to school , that 's not a goal , it 's a mean .
health i give two points . i mean it 's nice to be healthy -- at my age especially -- you can stand here , you 're healthy .
and that 's good , it gets two plusses .
environment is very , very crucial .
there 's nothing for the grandkid if you don 't save up .
but where are the important goals ?
of course , it 's human rights .
human rights is the goal , but it 's not that strong of a mean for achieving development .
and culture . culture is the most important thing , i would say , because that 's what brings joy to life .
that 's the value of living .
so the seemingly impossible is possible .
even african countries can achieve this .
and i 've shown you the shot where the seemingly impossible is possible .
and remember , please remember my main message , which is this : the seemingly impossible is possible .
we can have a good world .
i showed you the shots , i proved it in the powerpoint , and i think i will convince you also by culture .
bring me my sword !
sword swallowing is from ancient india .
it 's a cultural expression that for thousands of years has inspired human beings to think beyond the obvious .
and i will now prove to you that the seemingly impossible is possible by taking this piece of steel -- solid steel -- this is the army bayonet from the swedish army , 1850 , in the last year we had war .
and it 's all solid steel -- you can hear here .
and i 'm going to take this blade of steel , and push it down through my body of blood and flesh , and prove to you that the seemingly impossible is possible .
can i request a moment of absolute silence ?
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / chris _ bangle _ says _ great _ cars _ are _ art.html
american designer chris bangle explains his philosophy that car design is an art form in its own right , with an entertaining -- and ultimately moving -- account of the bmw group 's deep blue project , intended to create the suv of the future .
arts , business , cars , design , industrial design , invention , technology , transportation
5
chris bangle says great cars are art
what i want to talk about is , as background , is the idea that cars are art .
this is actually quite meaningful to me , because car designers tend to be a little bit low on the totem pole -- we don 't do coffee table books with just one lamp inside of it -- and cars are thought so much as a product that it 's a little bit difficult to get into the aesthetic side under the same sort of terminology that one would discuss art .
and so cars , as art , brings it into an emotional plane -- if you accept that -- that you have to deal with on the same level you would with art with a capital a .
now at this point you 're going to see a picture of michelangelo .
this is completely different than automobiles .
automobiles are self-moving things , right ? elevators are automobiles .
and they 're not very emotional ; they solve a purpose ; and certainly automobiles have been around for 100 years and have made our lives functionally a lot better in many ways ; they 've also been a real pain in the ass ,
because automobiles are really the thing we have to solve .
we have to solve the pollution , we have to solve the congestion -- but that 's not what interests me in this speech .
what interests me in this speech is cars . automobiles may be what you use , but cars are what we are , in many ways .
and as long as we can solve the problems of automobiles , and i believe we can , with fuel cells or hydrogen , like bmw is really hip on , and lots of other things , then i think we can look past that and try and understand why this hook is in many of us -- of this car-y-ness -- and what that means , what we can learn from it .
that 's what i want to get to . cars are not a suit of clothes ; cars are an avatar . cars are an expansion of yourself : they take your thoughts , your ideas , your emotions , and they multiply it -- your anger , whatever . it 's an avatar .
it 's a super-waldo that you happen to be inside of , and if you feel sexy , the car is sexy . and if you 're full of road rage , you 've got a " chevy : like a rock , " right ?
cars are a sculpture -- did you know this ?
that every car you see out there is sculpted by hand .
many people think , " well , it 's computers , and it 's done by machines and stuff like that . "
well , they reproduce it , but the originals are all done by hand .
it 's done by men and women who believe a lot in their craft .
and they put that same kind of tension into the sculpting of a car that you do in a great sculpture that you would go and look at in a museum .
that tension between the need to express , the need to discover , then you put something new into it , and at the same time you have bounds of craftsmanship .
rules that say , this is how you handle surfaces ; this is what control is all about ; this is how you show you 're a master of your craft .
and that tension , that discovery , that push for something new -- and at the same time , that sense of obligation to the regards of craftsmanship -- that 's as strong in cars as it is in anything .
we work in clay , which hasn 't changed much since michelangelo started screwing around with it , and there 's a very interesting analogy to that too .
real quickly -- michelangelo once said he 's there to " discover the figure within , " ok ?
there we go , the automobile .
that was 100 years right there -- did you catch that ?
between that one there , and that one there , it changed a lot didn 't it ?
ok , it 's not marketing ; there 's a very interesting car concept here , but the marketing part is not what i want to talk about here .
i want to talk about this .
why it means you have to wash a car , what is it , that sensuality you have to touch about it ? that 's the sculpture that goes into it . that sensuality .
and it 's done by men and women working just like this , making cars .
now this little quote about sculpture from henry moore , i believe that that " pressure within " that moore 's talking about -- at least when it comes to cars -- comes right back to this idea of the mean .
it 's that will to live , that need to survive , to express itself , that comes in a car , and takes over people like me .
and we tell other people , " do this , do this , do this , " until this thing comes alive .
we are completely infected . and beauty can be the result of this infectiousness ; it 's quite wonderful .
this sculpture is , of course , at the heart of all of it , and it 's really what puts the craftsmanship into our cars .
and it 's not a whole lot different , really , when they 're working like this , or when somebody works like this .
it 's that same kind of commitment , that same kind of beauty .
now , now i get to the point . i want to talk about cars as art .
art , in the platonic sense , is truth ; it 's beauty , and love .
now this is really where designers in car business diverge from the engineers .
we don 't really have a problem talking about love .
we don 't have a problem talking about truth or beauty in that sense .
that 's what we 're searching for -- when we 're working our craft , we are really trying to find that truth out there .
we 're not trying to find vanity and beauty .
we 're trying to find the beauty in the truth .
however , engineers tend to look at things a little bit more newtonian , instead of this quantum approach .
we 're dealing with irrationalisms , and we 're dealing with paradoxes that we admit exist , and the engineers tend to look things a little bit more like two and two is four , and if you get 4.0 it 's better , and 4.000 is even better .
and that sometimes leads to bit of a divergence in why we 're doing what we 're doing .
we 've pretty much accepted the fact , though , that we are the women in the organization at bmw -- bmw is a very manly type business , -- men , men , men ; it 's engineers .
and we 're kind of the female side to that . that 's ok , that 's cool . you go off and be manly . we 're going to be a little bit more female .
because what we 're interested in is finding form that 's more than just a function .
we 're interested in finding beauty that 's more than just an aesthetic ; it 's really a truth .
and i think this idea of soul , as being at the heart of great cars , is very applicable . you all know it . you know a car when you 've seen it , with soul . you know how strong this is .
well , this experience of love , and the experience of design , to me , are interchangeable . and now i 'm coming to my story .
i discovered something about love and design through a project called deep blue .
and first of all , you have to go with me for a second , and say , you know , you could take the word " love " out of a lot of things in our society , put the word " design " in , and it still works , like this quote here , you know . it kind of works , you know ?
you can understand that . it works in truisms .
" all is fair in design and war . "
certainly we live in a competitive society .
i think this one here , there 's a pop song that really describes philippe starck for me , you know , this is like you know , this is like puppy love , you know , this is cool right ?
toothbrush , cool .
it really only gets serious when you look at something like this . ok ?
this is one substitution that i believe all of us , in design management , are guilty of .
and this idea that there is more to love , more to design , when it gets down to your neighbor , your other , it can be physical like this , and maybe in the future it will be .
but right now it 's in dealing with our own people , our own teams who are doing the creating . so , to my story .
the idea of people-work is what we work with here , and i have to make a bond with my designers when we 're creating bmws .
we have to have a shared intimacy , a shared vision -- that means we have to work as one family ; we have to understand ourselves that way .
there 's good times ; there 's interesting times ; and there 's some stress times too .
you want to do cars , you 've got to go outside .
you 've got to do cars in the rain ; you 've got to do cars in the snow .
that 's , by the way , is a presentation we made to our board of directors .
we haul their butts out in the snow , too . you want to know cars outside ?
well , you 've got to stand outside to do this .
and because these are artists , they have very artistic temperaments .
all right ? now one thing about art is , art is discovery , and art is discovering yourself through your art . right ?
and one thing about cars is we 're all a little bit like pygmalion , we are completely in love with our own creations .
this is one of my favorite paintings , it really describes our relationship with cars .
this is sick beyond belief .
but because of this , the intimacy with which we work together as a team takes on a new dimension , a new meaning .
we have a shared center ; we have a shared focus -- that car stays at the middle of all our relationships .
and it 's my job , in the competitive process , to narrow this down .
i heard today about joseph 's death genes that have to go in and kill cell reproduction .
you know , that 's what i have to do sometimes .
we start out with 10 cars ; we narrow it down to five cars , down to three cars , down to two cars , down to one car , and i 'm in the middle of that killing , basically .
someone 's love , someone 's baby .
this is very difficult , and you have to have a bond with your team that permits you to do this , because their life is wrapped up in that too .
they 've got that gene infected in them as well , and they want that to live , more than anything else .
well , this project , deep blue , put me in contact with my team in a way that i never expected , and i want to pass it on to you , because i want you to reflect on this , perhaps in your own relationships .
we wanted to a do a car which was a complete leap of faith for bmw .
we wanted to do a team which was so removed from the way we 'd done it , that i only had a phone number that connected me to them .
so , what we did was : instead of having a staff of artists that are just your wrist , we decided to free up a team of creative designers and engineers to find out what 's the successor to the suv phenomenon in america .
this is 1996 we did this project . and so we sent them off with this team name , deep blue . now many people know deep blue from ibm -- we actually stole it from them because we figured if anybody read our faxes they 'd think we 're talking about computers .
it turned out it was quite clever because deep blue , in a company like bmw , has a hook -- " deep blue , " wow , cool name .
so people get wrapped up in it . and we took a team of designers , and we sent them off to america . and we gave them a budget , what we thought was a set of deliverables , a timetable , and nothing else .
like i said , i just had a phone number that connected me to them .
and a group of engineers worked in germany , and the idea was they would work separately on this problem of what 's the successor to the suv . they would come together , compare notes . then they would work apart , come together , and they would produce together a monumental set of diverse opinions that didn 't pollute each other 's ideas -- but at the same time came together and resolved the problems .
hopefully , really understand the customer at its heart , where the customer is , live with them in america . so -- sent the team off , and actually something different happened . they went other places .
they disappeared , quite honestly , and all i got was postcards .
now , i got some postcards of these guys in las vegas , and i got some postcards of these guys in the grand canyon , and i got these postcards of niagara falls , and pretty soon they 're in new york , and i don 't know where else .
and i 'm telling myself , " this is going to be a great car , they 're doing research that i 've never even thought about before . " right ? and they decided that instead of , like , having a studio , and six or seven apartments , it was cheaper to rent elizabeth taylor 's ex-house in malibu .
and -- at least they told me it was her house , i guess it was at one time , she had a party there or something .
but anyway , this was the house , and they all lived there .
now this is 24 / 7 living , half-a-dozen people who 'd left their -- some had left their wives behind and families behind , and they literally lived in this house for the entire six months the project was in america , but the first three months were the most intensive .
and one of the young women in the project , she was a fantastic lady , she actually built her room in the bathroom .
the bathroom was so big , she built the bed over the bathtub -- it 's quite fascinating .
on the other hand , i didn 't know anything about this . ok ?
nothing . this is all going on , and all i 'm getting is postcards of these guys in las vegas , or whatever , saying , " don 't worry chris , this is really going to be good . " ok ?
so my concept of what a design studio was probably -- i wasn 't up to speed on where these guys were .
however , the engineers back in munich had taken on this kind of newtonian solution , and they were trying to find how many cup holders can dance on the head of a pin , and , you know , these really serious questions that are confronting the modern consumer .
and one was hoping that these two teams would get together , and this collusion of incredible creativity , under these incredible surroundings , and these incredibly stressed-out engineers , would create some incredible solutions .
well , what i didn 't know was , and what we found out was -- these guys , they can 't even like talk to each other under those conditions .
you get a divergence of newtonian and quantum thinking at that point , you have a split in your dialog that is so deep , and so far , that they cannot bring this together at all .
and so we had our first meeting , after three months , in tiburon , which is just up the road from here -- you know tiburon ?
and the idea was after the first three months of this independent research they would present it all to dr. goschel -- who is now my boss , and at that time he was co-mentor on the project -- and they would present their results .
we would see where we were going , we would see the first indication of what could be the successive phenomenon to the suv in america .
and so i had these ideas in my head , that this is going to be great .
i mean , i 'm going to see so much work , it 's so intense -- i know probably las vegas meant a lot about it , and i 'm not really sure where the grand canyon came in either -- but somehow all this is going to come together , and i 'm going to see some really great product .
so we went to tiburon , after three months , and the team had gotten together the week before , many days ahead of time .
the engineers flew over , and designers got together with them , and they put their presentation together .
well , it turns out that the engineers hadn 't done anything .
and they hadn 't done anything because -- kind of , like in car business , engineers are there to solve problems , and we were asking them to create a problem .
and the engineers were waiting for the designers to say , " this is the problem that we 've created , now help us solve it . "
and they couldn 't talk about it . so what happened was , the engineers showed up with nothing .
and the engineers told the designers , " if you go in with all your stuff , we 'll walk out , we 'll walk right out of the project . " so i didn 't know any of this , and we got a presentation that had an agenda , looked like this .
there was a whole lot of dialog .
we spent four hours being told all about vocabulary that needs to be built between engineers and designers .
and here i 'm expecting at any moment , " ok , they 're going to turn the page , and i 'm going to see the cars , i 'm going to see the sketches , i 'm going to see maybe some idea of where it 's going . "
dialog kept on going , with mental maps of words , and pretty soon it was becoming obvious that instead of being dazzled with brilliance , i was seriously being baffled with bullshit .
and if you can imagine what this is like , to have these months of postcard indication of how great this team is working , and they 're out there spending all this money , and they 're learning , and they 're doing all this stuff .
i went fucking ballistic , right ? i went nuts .
you can probably remember tiburon , it used to look like this .
after four hours of this , i stood up , and i took this team apart .
i screamed at them , i yelled at them , " what the hell are you doing ?
you 're letting me down , you 're my designers , you 're supposed to be the creative ones , what the hell is going on around here ? " it was probably one of my better tirades , i have some good ones , but this was probably one of my better ones . and i went into these people ; how could they take bmw 's money , how could they have a holiday for three months and produce nothing , nothing ?
because of course they didn 't tell us that they had three station wagons full of drawings , model concepts , pictures -- everything i wanted , they 'd locked up in the cars , because they had shown solidarity with the engineers -- and they 'd decided not to show me anything , in order to give the chance for problem solving a chance to start , because they hadn 't realized , of course , that they couldn 't do problem creating .
so we went to lunch -- and i 've got to tell you , this was one seriously quiet lunch .
the engineers all sat at one end of the table , the designers and i sat at the other end of the table , really quiet .
and i was just fucking furious , furious . ok ?
probably because they had all the fun and i didn 't , you know .
that 's what you get furious about right ?
and somebody asked me about catherine , my wife , you know , did she fly out with me or something ?
i said , " no , " and it triggered a set of thoughts about my wife .
and i recalled that when catherine and i were married , the priest gave a very nice sermon , and he said something very important .
he said , " love is not selfish , " he said , " love does not mean counting how many times i say , ' i love you . '
it doesn 't mean you had sex this many times this month , and it 's two times less than last month , so that means you don 't love me as much .
love is not selfish . " and i thought about this , and i thought , " you know , i 'm not showing love here . i 'm seriously not showing love .
i 'm in the air , i 'm in the air without trust .
this cannot be . this cannot be that i 'm expecting a certain number of sketches , and to me that 's my quantification method for qualifying a team .
this cannot be . " so i told them this story . i said , " guys , i 'm thinking about something here , this isn 't right . i can 't have a relationship with you guys based on a premise that is a quantifiable one .
based on a dictate premise that says , ' i 'm a boss , you do what i say , without trust . ' "
i said " this can 't be . "
actually , we all broke down into tears , to be quite honest about it , because they still could not tell me how much frustration they had built up inside of them , not being able to show me what i wanted , and merely having to ask me to trust them that it would come .
and i think we felt much closer that day , we cut a lot of strings that didn 't need to be there , and we forged the concept for what real team and creativity is all about .
we put the car back at the center of our thoughts , and we put love , i think , truly back into the center of the process .
by the way , that team went on to create six different concepts for the next model of what would be the proposal for the next generation after suvs in america .
one of those was the idea of a crossover coupes -- you see it downstairs , the x coupe -- they had a lot of fun with that .
it was the rendition of our motorcycle , the gs , as carl magnusson says , " brute-iful , " as the idea of what could be a motorcycle , if you add two more wheels .
and so , in conclusion , my lesson that i wanted to pass on to you , was this one here . i 'm also going to steal a little quote out of " little prince . "
there 's a lot to be said about trust and love , if you know that those two words are synonymous for design .
i had a very , very meaningful relationship with my team that day , and it 's stayed that way ever since .
and i hope that you too find that there 's more to design , and more towards the art of the design , than doing it yourself .
it 's true that the trust and the love , that makes it worthwhile .
thanks so much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jay _ bradner _ open _ source _ cancer _ research.html
how does cancer know it 's cancer ? at jay bradner 's lab , they found a molecule that might hold the answer , jq1 -- and instead of patenting jq1 , they published their findings and mailed samples to 40 other labs to work on . an inspiring look at the open-source future of medical research .
business , cancer , medical research , open-source , science
1256
jay bradner : open-source cancer research
i moved to boston 10 years ago , from chicago , with an interest in cancer and in chemistry .
you might know that chemistry is the science of making molecules -- or to my taste , new drugs for cancer .
and you might also know that , for science and medicine , boston is a bit of a candy store .
you can 't roll a stop sign in cambridge without hitting a graduate student .
the bar is called the miracle of science .
the billboards say " lab space available . "
and it 's fair to say that in these 10 years , we 've witnessed absolutely the start of a scientific revolution -- that of genome medicine .
we know more about the patients that enter our clinic now than ever before .
and we 're able , finally , to answer the question that 's been so pressing for so many years : why do i have cancer ?
this information is also pretty staggering .
you might know that , so far in just the dawn of this revolution , we know that there are perhaps 40,000 unique mutations affecting more than 10,000 genes , and that there are 500 of these genes that are bona-fide drivers , causes of cancer .
yet comparatively , we have about a dozen targeted medications .
and this inadequacy of cancer medicine really hit home when my father was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer .
we didn 't fly him to boston .
we didn 't sequence his genome .
it 's been known for decades what causes this malignancy .
it 's three proteins -- ras , myc and p53 .
this is old information we 've known since about the 80s , yet there 's no medicine i can prescribe to a patient with this or any of the numerous solid tumors caused by these three horsemen of the apocalypse that is cancer .
there 's no ras , no myc , no p53 drug .
and you might fairly ask : why is that ?
and the very unsatisfying , yet scientific , answer is it 's too hard .
that for whatever reason , these three proteins have entered a space in the language of our field that 's called the undruggable genome -- which is like calling a computer unsurfable or the moon unwalkable .
it 's a horrible term of trade .
but what it means is that we fail to identify a greasy pocket in these proteins , into which we , like molecular locksmiths , can fashion an active , small , organic molecule or drug substance .
now as i was training in clinical medicine and hematology and oncology and stem cell transplantation , what we had instead , cascading through the regulatory network at the fda , were these substances -- arsenic , thalidomide and this chemical derivative of nitrogen mustard gas .
and this is the 21st century .
and so , i guess you 'd say , dissatisfied with the performance and quality of these medicines , i went back to school in chemistry with the idea that perhaps by learning the trade of discovery chemistry and approaching it in the context of this brave new world of the open-source , the crowd-source , the collaborative network that we have access to within academia , that we might more quickly bring powerful and targeted therapies to our patients .
and so please consider this a work in progress , but i 'd like to tell you today a story about a very rare cancer called midline carcinoma , about the protein target , the undruggable protein target that causes this cancer , called brd4 , and about a molecule developed at my lab at dana farber cancer institute called jq1 , which we affectionately named for jun qi , the chemist that made this molecule .
now brd4 is an interesting protein .
you might ask yourself , with all the things cancer 's trying to do to kill our patient , how does it remember it 's cancer ?
when it winds up its genome , divides into two cells and unwinds again , why does it not turn into an eye , into a liver , as it has all the genes necessary to do this ?
it remembers that it 's cancer .
and the reason is that cancer , like every cell in the body , places little molecular bookmarks , that remind the cell " i 'm cancer ; i should keep growing . "
and those post-it notes involve this and other proteins of its class -- so-called bromodomains .
so we developed an idea , a rationale , that perhaps , if we made a molecule that prevented the post-it note from sticking by entering into the little pocket at the base of this spinning protein , then maybe we could convince cancer cells , certainly those addicted to this brd4 protein , that they 're not cancer .
and so we started to work on this problem .
we developed libraries of compounds and eventually arrived at this and similar substances called jq1 .
now not being a drug company , we could do certain things , we had certain flexibilities , that i respect that a pharmaceutical industry doesn 't have .
we just started mailing it to our friends .
i have a small lab .
we thought we 'd just send it to people and see how the molecule behaves .
and we sent it to oxford , england where a group of talented crystallographers provided this picture , which helped us understand exactly how this molecule is so potent for this protein target .
it 's what we call a perfect fit of shape complimentarity , or hand in glove .
now this is a very rare cancer , this brd4-addicted cancer .
and so we worked with samples of material that were collected by young pathologists at brigham women 's hospital .
and as we treated these cells with this molecule , we observed something really striking .
the cancer cells , small , round and rapidly dividing , grew these arms and extensions .
they were changing shape .
in effect , the cancer cell was forgetting it was cancer and becoming a normal cell .
this got us very excited .
the next step would be to put this molecule into mice .
the only problem was there 's no mouse model of this rare cancer .
and so at the time that we were doing this research , i was caring for a 29 year-old firefighter from connecticut who was very much at the end of life with this incurable cancer .
this brd4-addicted cancer was growing throughout his left lung , and he had a chest tube in that was draining little bits of debris .
and every nursing shift we would throw this material out .
and so we approached this patient and asked if he would collaborate with us .
could we take this precious and rare cancerous material from this chest tube and drive it across town and put it into mice and try to do a clinical trial and stage it with a prototype drug ?
well that would be impossible and , rightly , illegal to do in humans .
and he obliged us .
at the lurie family center for animal imaging , my colleague , andrew kung , grew this cancer successfully in mice without ever touching plastic .
and you can see this pet scan of a mouse -- what we call a pet pet .
the cancer is growing as this red , huge mass in the hind limb of this animal .
and as we treat it with our compound , this addiction to sugar , this rapid growth , faded .
and on the animal on the right , you see that the cancer was responding .
we 've completed now clinical trials in four mouse models of this disease .
and every time , we see the same thing .
the mice with this cancer that get the drug live , and the ones that don 't rapidly perish .
so we started to wonder , what would a drug company do at this point ?
well they probably would keep this a secret until they turn a prototype drug into an active pharmaceutical substance .
and so we did just the opposite .
we published a paper that described this finding at the earliest prototype stage .
we gave the world the chemical identity of this molecule , typically a secret in our discipline .
we told people exactly how to make it .
we gave them our email address , suggesting that , if they write us , we 'll send them a free molecule .
we basically tried to create the most competitive environment for our lab as possible .
and this was , unfortunately , successful .
because now when we 've shared this molecule , just since december of last year , with 40 laboratories in the united states and 30 more in europe -- many of them pharmaceutical companies seeking now to enter this space , to target this rare cancer that , thankfully right now , is quite desirable to study in that industry .
but the science that 's coming back from all of these laboratories about the use of this molecule has provided us insights that we might not have had on our own .
leukemia cells treated with this compound turn into normal white blood cells .
mice with multiple myeloma , an incurable malignancy of the bone marrow , respond dramatically to the treatment with this drug .
you might know that fat has memory .
nice to be able to demonstrate that for you .
and in fact , this molecule prevents this adipocyte , this fat stem cell , from remembering how to make fat such that mice on a high fat diet , like the folks in my hometown of chicago , fail to develop fatty liver , which is a major medical problem .
what this research taught us -- not just my lab , but our institute , and harvard medical school more generally -- is that we have unique resources in academia for drug discovery -- that our center that has tested perhaps more cancer molecules in a scientific way than any other , never made one of its own .
for all the reasons you see listed here , we think there 's a great opportunity for academic centers to participate in this earliest , conceptually-tricky and creative discipline of prototype drug discovery .
so what next ?
we have this molecule , but it 's not a pill yet .
it 's not orally available .
we need to fix it , so that we can deliver it to our patients .
and everyone in the lab , especially following the interaction with these patients , feels quite compelled to deliver a drug substance based on this molecule .
it 's here where i have to say that we could use your help and your insights , your collaborative participation .
unlike a drug company , we don 't have a pipeline that we can deposit these molecules into .
we don 't have a team of salespeople and marketeers that can tell us how to position this drug against the other .
what we do have is the flexibility of an academic center to work with competent , motivated , enthusiastic , hopefully well-funded people to carry these molecules forward into the clinic while preserving our ability to share the prototype drug worldwide .
this molecule will soon leave our benches and go into a small startup company called tensha therapeutics .
and really this is the fourth of these molecules to kind of graduate from our little pipeline of drug discovery , two of which -- a topical drug for lymphoma of the skin , an oral substance for the treatment of multiple myeloma -- will actually come to the bedside for first clinical trial in july of this year .
for us , a major and exciting milestone .
i want to leave you with just two ideas .
the first is if anything is unique about this research , it 's less the science than the strategy -- that this for us was a social experiment , an experiment in what would happen if we were as open and honest at the earliest phase of discovery chemistry research as we could be .
this string of letters and numbers and symbols and parentheses that can be texted , i suppose , or twittered worldwide , is the chemical identity of our pro compound .
it 's the information that we most need from pharmaceutical companies , the information on how these early prototype drugs might work .
yet this information is largely a secret .
and so we seek really to download from the amazing successes of the computer science industry two principles : that of opensource and that of crowdsourcing to quickly , responsibly accelerate the delivery of targeted therapeutics to patients with cancer .
now the business model involves all of you .
this research is funded by the public .
it 's funded by foundations .
and one thing i 've learned in boston is that you people will do anything for cancer -- and i love that .
you bike across the state . you walk up and down the river .
i 've never seen really anywhere this unique support for cancer research .
and so i want to thank you for your participation , your collaboration and most of all for your confidence in our ideas .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / sean _ carroll _ distant _ time _ and _ the _ hint _ of _ a _ multiverse.html
at tedxcaltech , cosmologist sean carroll attacks -- in an entertaining and thought-provoking tour through the nature of time and the universe -- a deceptively simple question : why does time exist at all ? the potential answers point to a surprising view of the nature of the universe , and our place in it .
astronomy , cosmos , philosophy , physics , science , time , universe
1139
sean carroll : distant time and the hint of a multiverse
the universe is really big .
we live in a galaxy , the milky way galaxy .
there are about a hundred billion stars in the milky way galaxy .
and if you take a camera and you point it at a random part of the sky , and you just keep the shutter open , as long as your camera is attached to the hubble space telescope , it will see something like this .
every one of these little blobs is a galaxy roughly the size of our milky way -- a hundred billion stars in each of those blobs .
there are approximately a hundred billion galaxies in the observable universe .
100 billion is the only number you need to know .
the age of the universe , between now and the big bang , is a hundred billion in dog years .
which tells you something about our place in the universe .
one thing you can do with a picture like this is simply admire it .
it 's extremely beautiful .
i 've often wondered , what is the evolutionary pressure that made our ancestors in the veldt adapt and evolve to really enjoy pictures of galaxies when they didn 't have any .
but we would also like to understand it .
as a cosmologist , i want to ask , why is the universe like this ?
one big clue we have is that the universe is changing with time .
if you looked at one of these galaxies and measured its velocity , it would be moving away from you .
and if you look at a galaxy even farther away , it would be moving away faster .
so we say the universe is expanding .
what that means , of course , is that , in the past , things were closer together .
in the past , the universe was more dense , and it was also hotter .
if you squeeze things together , the temperature goes up .
that kind of makes sense to us .
the thing that doesn 't make sense to us as much is that the universe , at early times , near the big bang , was also very , very smooth .
you might think that that 's not a surprise .
the air in this room is very smooth .
you might say , " well , maybe things just smoothed themselves out . "
but the conditions near the big bang are very , very different than the conditions of the air in this room .
in particular , things were a lot denser .
the gravitational pull of things was a lot stronger near the big bang .
what you have to think about is we have a universe with a hundred billion galaxies , a hundred billion stars each .
at early times , those hundred billion galaxies were squeezed into a region about this big -- literally -- at early times .
and you have to imagine doing that squeezing without any imperfections , without any little spots where there were a few more atoms than somewhere else .
because if there had been , they would have collapsed under the gravitational pull into a huge black hole .
keeping the universe very , very smooth at early times is not easy ; it 's a delicate arrangement .
it 's a clue that the early universe is not chosen randomly .
there is something that made it that way .
we would like to know what .
so part of our understanding of this was given to us by ludwig boltzmann , an austrian physicist in the 19th century .
and boltzmann 's contribution was that he helped us understand entropy .
you 've heard of entropy .
it 's the randomness , the disorder , the chaoticness of some systems .
boltzmann gave us a formula -- engraved on his tombstone now -- that really quantifies what entropy is .
and it 's basically just saying that entropy is the number of ways we can rearrange the constituents of a system so that you don 't notice , so that macroscopically it looks the same .
if you have the air in this room , you don 't notice each individual atom .
a low entropy configuration is one in which there 's only a few arrangements that look that way .
a high entropy arrangement is one that there are many arrangements that look that way .
this is a crucially important insight because it helps us explain the second law of thermodynamics -- the law that says that entropy increases in the universe , or in some isolated bit of the universe .
the reason why entropy increases is simply because there are many more ways to be high entropy than to be low entropy .
that 's a wonderful insight , but it leaves something out .
this insight that entropy increases , by the way , is what 's behind what we call the arrow of time , the difference between the past and the future .
every difference that there is between the past and the future is because entropy is increasing -- the fact that you can remember the past , but not the future .
the fact that you are born , and then you live , and then you die , always in that order , that 's because entropy is increasing .
boltzmann explained that if you start with low entropy , it 's very natural for it to increase because there 's more ways to be high entropy .
what he didn 't explain was why the entropy was ever low in the first place .
the fact that the entropy of the universe was low was a reflection of the fact that the early universe was very , very smooth .
we 'd like to understand that .
that 's our job as cosmologists .
unfortunately , it 's actually not a problem that we 've been giving enough attention to .
it 's not one of the first things people would say , if you asked a modern cosmologist , " what are the problems we 're trying to address ? "
one of the people who did understand that this was a problem was richard feynman .
50 years ago , he gave a series of a bunch of different lectures .
he gave the popular lectures that became " the character of physical law . " he gave lectures to caltech undergrads that became " the feynman lectures on physics . " he gave lectures to caltech graduate students that became " the feynman lectures on gravitation . " in every one of these books , every one of these sets of lectures , he emphasized this puzzle : why did the early universe have such a small entropy ?
so he says -- i 'm not going to do the accent -- he says , " for some reason , the universe , at one time , had a very low entropy for its energy content , and since then the entropy has increased .
the arrow of time cannot be completely understood until the mystery of the beginnings of the history of the universe are reduced still further from speculation to understanding . "
so that 's our job .
we want to know -- this is 50 years ago , " surely , " you 're thinking , " we 've figured it out by now . "
it 's not true that we 've figured it out by now .
the reason the problem has gotten worse , rather than better , is because in 1998 we learned something crucial about the universe that we didn 't know before .
we learned that it 's accelerating .
the universe is not only expanding .
if you look at the galaxy , it 's moving away .
if you come back a billion years later and look at it again , it will be moving away faster .
individual galaxies are speeding away from us faster and faster
so we say the universe is accelerating .
unlike the low entropy of the early universe , even though we don 't know the answer for this , we at least have a good theory that can explain it , if that theory is right , and that 's the theory of dark energy .
it 's just the idea that empty space itself has energy .
in every little cubic centimeter of space , whether or not there 's stuff , whether or not there 's particles , matter , radiation or whatever , there 's still energy , even in the space itself .
and this energy , according to einstein , exerts a push on the universe .
it is a perpetual impulse that pushes galaxies apart from each other .
because dark energy , unlike matter or radiation , does not dilute away as the universe expands .
the amount of energy in each cubic centimeter remains the same , even as the universe gets bigger and bigger .
this has crucial implications for what the universe is going to do in the future .
for one thing , the universe will expand forever .
back when i was your age , we didn 't know what the universe was going to do .
some people thought that the universe would recollapse in the future .
einstein was fond of this idea .
but if there 's dark energy , and the dark energy does not go away , the universe is just going to keep expanding forever and ever and ever .
14 billion years in the past , 100 billion dog years , but an infinite number of years into the future .
meanwhile , for all intents and purposes , space looks finite to us .
space may be finite or infinite , but because the universe is accelerating , there are parts of it we cannot see and never will see .
there 's a finite region of space that we have access to , surrounded by a horizon .
so even though time goes on forever , space is limited to us .
finally , empty space has a temperature .
in the 1970s , stephen hawking told us that a black hole , even though you think it 's black , it actually emits radiation when you take into account quantum mechanics .
the curvature of space-time around the black hole brings to life the quantum mechanical fluctuation , and the black hole radiates .
a precisely similar calculation by hawking and gary gibbons showed that if you have dark energy in empty space , then the whole universe radiates .
the energy of empty space brings to life quantum fluctuations .
and so even though the universe will last forever , and ordinary matter and radiation will dilute away , there will always be some radiation , some thermal fluctuations , even in empty space .
so what this means is that the universe is like a box of gas that lasts forever .
well what is the implication of that ?
that implication was studied by boltzmann back in the 19th century .
he said , well , entropy increases because there are many , many more ways for the universe to be high entropy , rather than low entropy .
but that 's a probabilistic statement .
it will probably increase , and the probability is enormously huge .
it 's not something you have to worry about -- the air in this room all gathering over one part of the room and suffocating us .
it 's very , very unlikely .
except if they locked the doors and kept us here literally forever , that would happen .
everything that is allowed , every configuration that is allowed to be obtained by the molecules in this room , would eventually be obtained .
so boltzmann says , look , you could start with a universe that was in thermal equilibrium .
he didn 't know about the big bang . he didn 't know about the expansion of the universe .
he thought that space and time were explained by isaac newton -- they were absolute ; they just stuck there forever .
so his idea of a natural universe was one in which the air molecules were just spread out evenly everywhere -- the everything molecules .
but if you 're boltzmann , you know that if you wait long enough , the random fluctuations of those molecules will occasionally bring them into lower entropy configurations .
and then , of course , in the natural course of things , they will expand back .
so it 's not that entropy must always increase -- you can get fluctuations into lower entropy , more organized situations .
well if that 's true , boltzmann then goes onto invent two very modern-sounding ideas -- the multiverse and the anthropic principle .
he says , the problem with thermal equilibrium is that we can 't live there .
remember , life itself depends on the arrow of time .
we would not be able to process information , metabolize , walk and talk , if we lived in thermal equilibrium .
so if you imagine a very , very big universe , an infinitely big universe , with randomly bumping into each other particles , there will occasionally be small fluctuations in the lower entropy states , and then they relax back .
but there will also be large fluctuations .
occasionally , you will make a planet or a star or a galaxy or a hundred billion galaxies .
so boltzmann says , we will only live in the part of the multiverse , in the part of this infinitely big set of fluctuating particles , where life is possible .
that 's the region where entropy is low .
maybe our universe is just one of those things that happens from time to time .
now your homework assignment is to really think about this , to contemplate what it means .
carl sagan once famously said that " in order to make an apple pie , you must first invent the universe . " but he was not right .
in boltzmann 's scenario , if you want to make an apple pie , you just wait for the random motion of atoms to make you an apple pie .
that will happen much more frequently than the random motions of atoms making you an apple orchard and some sugar and an oven , and then making you an apple pie .
so this scenario makes predictions .
and the predictions are that the fluctuations that make us are minimal .
even if you imagine that this room we are in now exists and is real and here we are , and we have , not only our memories , but our impression that outside there 's something called caltech and the united states and the milky way galaxy , it 's much easier for all those impressions to randomly fluctuate into your brain than for them actually to randomly fluctuate into caltech , the united states and the galaxy .
the good news is that , therefore , this scenario does not work ; it is not right .
this scenario predicts that we should be a minimal fluctuation .
even if you left our galaxy out , you would not get a hundred billion other galaxies .
and feynman also understood this .
feynman says , " from the hypothesis that the world is a fluctuation , all the predictions are that if we look at a part of the world we 've never seen before , we will find it mixed up , and not like the piece we 've just looked at -- high entropy .
if our order were due to a fluctuation , we would not expect order anywhere but where we have just noticed it .
we therefore conclude the universe is not a fluctuation . "
so that 's good . the question is then what is the right answer ?
if the universe is not a fluctuation , why did the early universe have a low entropy ?
and i would love to tell you the answer , but i 'm running out of time .
here is the universe that we tell you about , versus the universe that really exists .
i just showed you this picture .
the universe is expanding for the last 10 billion years or so .
it 's cooling off .
but we now know enough about the future of the universe to say a lot more .
if the dark energy remains around , the stars around us will use up their nuclear fuel , they will stop burning .
they will fall into black holes .
we will live in a universe with nothing in it but black holes .
that universe will last 10 to the 100 years -- a lot longer than our little universe has lived .
the future is much longer than the past .
but even black holes don 't last forever .
they will evaporate , and we will be left with nothing but empty space .
that empty space lasts essentially forever . however , you notice , since empty space gives off radiation , there 's actually thermal fluctuations , and it cycles around all the different possible combinations of the degrees of freedom that exist in empty space .
so even though the universe lasts forever , there 's only a finite number of things that can possibly happen in the universe .
they all happen over a period of time equal to 10 to the 10 to the 120 years . so here 's two questions for you .
number one : if the universe lasts for 10 to the 10 to the 120 years ,
why are we born in the first 14 billion years of it , in the warm , comfortable afterglow of the big bang ?
why aren 't we in empty space ?
you might say , " well there 's nothing there to be living , "
but that 's not right .
you could be a random fluctuation out of the nothingness .
why aren 't you ?
more homework assignment for you .
so like i said , i don 't actually know the answer .
i 'm going to give you my favorite scenario .
either it 's just like that . there is no explanation .
this is a brute fact about the universe
that you should learn to accept and stop asking questions .
or maybe the big bang is not the beginning of the universe .
an egg , an unbroken egg , is a low entropy configuration , and yet , when we open our refrigerator , we do not go , " hah , how surprising to find this low entropy configuration in our refrigerator . "
that 's because an egg is not a closed system ; it comes out of a chicken .
maybe the universe comes out of a universal chicken .
maybe there is something that naturally , through the growth of the laws of physics , gives rise to universe like ours in low entropy configurations .
if that 's true , it would happen more than once ; we would be part of a much bigger multiverse .
that 's my favorite scenario .
so the organizers asked me to end with a bold speculation .
my bold speculation is that i will be absolutely vindicated by history .
and 50 years from now , all of my current wild ideas will be accepted as truths by the scientific and external communities .
we will all believe that our little universe is just a small part of a much larger multiverse .
and even better , we will understand what happened at the big bang in terms of a theory that we will be able to compare to observations .
this is a prediction . i might be wrong .
but we 've been thinking as a human race about what the universe was like , why it came to be in the way it did for many , many years .
it 's exciting to think we may finally know the answer someday .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / william _ kamkwamba _ how _ i _ harnessed _ the _ wind.html
at age 14 , in poverty and famine , a malawian boy built a windmill to power his family 's home . now at 22 , william kamkwamba , who speaks at ted , here , for the second time , shares in his own words the moving tale of invention that changed his life .
africa , creativity , energy , invention , poverty
642
william kamkwamba : how i harnessed the wind
thank you .
two years ago , i stood on the ted stage in arusha , tanzania .
i spoke very briefly about one of my proudest creations .
it was a simple machine that changed my life .
before that time , i had never been away from my home in malawi .
i had never used a computer .
i had never seen an internet .
on the stage that day , i was so nervous .
my english lost ,
i wanted to vomit .
i had never been surrounded by so many azungu , white people .
there was a story i wouldn 't tell you then .
but well , i 'm feeling good right now .
i would like to share that story today .
we have seven children in my family .
all sisters , excepting me .
this is me with my dad when i was a little boy .
before i discovered the wonders of science , i was just a simple farmer in a country of poor farmers .
like everyone else , we grew maize .
one year our fortune turned very bad .
in 2001 we experienced an awful famine .
within five months all malawians began to starve to death .
my family ate one meal per day , at night .
only three swallows of nsima for each one of us .
the food passes through our bodies .
we drop down to nothing .
in malawi , the secondary school , you have to pay school fees .
because of the hunger , i was forced to drop out of school .
i looked at my father and looked at those dry fields .
it was the future i couldn 't accept .
i felt very happy to be at the secondary school ,
so i was determined to do anything possible to receive education .
so i went to a library .
i read books , science books , especially physics .
i couldn 't read english that well .
i used diagrams and pictures to learn the words around them .
another book put that knowledge in my hands .
it said a windmill could pump water and generate electricity .
pump water meant irrigation ,
a defense against hunger , which we were experiencing by that time .
so i decided i would build one windmill for myself .
but i didn 't have materials to use ,
so i went to a scrap yard where i found my materials .
many people , including my mother , said i was crazy .
i found a tractor fan , shock absorber , pvc pipes .
using a bicycle frame and an old bicycle dynamo , i built my machine .
it was one light at first .
and then four lights , with switches , and even a circuit breaker , modeled after an electric bell .
another machine pumps water for irrigation .
queues of people start lining up at my house to charge their mobile phone .
i could not get rid of them .
and the reporters came too , which lead to bloggers and which lead to a call from something called ted .
i had never seen an airplane before .
i had never slept in a hotel .
so , on stage that day in arusha , my english lost , i said something like , " i tried . and i made it . "
so i would like to say something to all the people out there like me to the africans , and the poor who are struggling with your dreams . god bless .
maybe one day you will watch this on the internet .
i say to you , trust yourself and believe .
whatever happens , don 't give up .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / pranav _ mistry _ the _ thrilling _ potential _ of _ sixthsense _ technology.html
at tedindia , pranav mistry demos several tools that help the physical world interact with the world of data -- including a deep look at his sixthsense device and a new , paradigm-shifting paper " laptop . " in an onstage q & a , mistry says he 'll open-source the software behind sixthsense , to open its possibilities to all .
demo , design , open-source , technology
685
pranav mistry : the thrilling potential of sixthsense technology
we grew up interacting with the physical objects around us .
there are an enormous number of them that we use every day .
unlike most of our computing devices , these objects are much more fun to use .
when you talk about objects , one other thing automatically comes attached to that thing , and that is gestures : how we manipulate these objects , how we use these objects in everyday life .
we use gestures not only to interact with these objects , but we also use them to interact with each other .
a gesture of " namaste ! , " maybe , to respect someone , or maybe --
in india i don 't need to teach a kid that this means " four runs " in cricket .
it comes as a part of our everyday learning .
so , i am very interested , from the beginning , that how --
how our knowledge about everyday objects and gestures , and how we use these objects , can be leveraged to our interactions with the digital world .
rather than using a keyboard and mouse , why can i not use my computer in the same way that i interact in the physical world ?
so , i started this exploration around eight years back , and it literally started with a mouse on my desk .
rather than using it for my computer , i actually opened it .
most of you might be aware that , in those days , the mouse used to come with a ball inside , and there were two rollers that actually guide the computer where the ball is moving , and , accordingly , where the mouse is moving .
so , i was interested in these two rollers , and i actually wanted more , so i borrowed another mouse from a friend --
never returned to him --
and i now had four rollers .
interestingly , what i did with these rollers is , basically , i took them off of these mouses and then put them in one line .
it had some strings and pulleys and some springs .
what i got is basically a gesture interface device that actually acts as a motion-sensing device made for two dollars .
so , here , whatever movement i do in my physical world is actually replicated inside the digital world just using this small device that i made , around eight years back , in 2000 .
because i was interested in integrating these two worlds , i thought of sticky notes .
i thought , " why can i not connect the normal interface of a physical sticky note to the digital world ? "
a message written on a sticky note to my mom on paper can come to an sms , or maybe a meeting reminder automatically syncs with my digital calendar --
a to-do list that automatically syncs with you .
but you can also search in the digital world , or maybe you can write a query , saying , " what is dr. smith 's address ? "
and this small system actually prints it out --
so it actually acts like a paper input-output system , just made out of paper .
in another exploration , i thought of making a pen that can draw in three dimensions .
so , i implemented this pen that can help designers and architects not only think in three dimensions , but they can actually draw so that it 's more intuitive to use that way .
then i thought , " why not make a google map , but in the physical world ? "
rather than typing a keyword to find something , i put my objects on top of it .
if i put a boarding pass , it will show me where the flight gate is .
a coffee cup will show where you can find more coffee , or where you can trash the cup .
so , these were some of the earlier explorations i did because the goal was to connect these two worlds seamlessly .
among all these experiments , there was one thing in common : i was trying to bring a part of the physical world to the digital world .
i was taking some part of the objects , or any of the intuitiveness of real life , and bringing them to the digital world , because the goal was to make our computing interfaces more intuitive .
but then i realized that we humans are not actually interested in computing .
what we are interested in is information .
we want to know about things .
we want to know about dynamic things going around .
so i thought , around last year -- in the beginning of the last year --
i started thinking , " why can i not take this approach in the reverse way ? "
maybe , " how about i take my digital world and paint the physical world with that digital information ? "
because pixels are actually , right now , confined in these rectangular devices that fit in our pockets .
why can i not remove this confine and take that to my everyday objects , everyday life so that i don 't need to learn the new language for interacting with those pixels ?
so , in order to realize this dream , i actually thought of putting a big-size projector on my head .
i think that 's why this is called a head-mounted projector , isn 't it ?
i took it very literally , and took my bike helmet , put a little cut over there so that the projector actually fits nicely .
so now , what i can do --
i can augment the world around me with this digital information .
but later , i realized that i actually wanted to interact with those digital pixels , also .
so i put a small camera over there , that acts as a digital eye .
later , we moved to a much better , consumer-oriented pendant version of that , that many of you now know as the sixthsense device .
but the most interesting thing about this particular technology is that you can carry your digital world with you wherever you go .
you can start using any surface , any wall around you , as an interface .
the camera is actually tracking all your gestures .
whatever you 're doing with your hands , it 's understanding that gesture .
and , actually , if you see , there are some color markers that in the beginning version we are using with it .
you can start painting on any wall .
you stop by a wall , and start painting on that wall .
but we are not only tracking one finger , here .
we are giving you the freedom of using all of both of your hands , so you can actually use both of your hands to zoom into or zoom out of a map just by pinching all present .
the camera is actually doing --
just , getting all the images --
is doing the edge recognition and also the color recognition and so many other small algorithms are going on inside .
so , technically , it 's a little bit complex , but it gives you an output which is more intuitive to use , in some sense .
but i 'm more excited that you can actually take it outside .
rather than getting your camera out of your pocket , you can just do the gesture of taking a photo and it takes a photo for you .
thank you .
and later i can find a wall , anywhere , and start browsing those photos or maybe , " ok , i want to modify this photo a little bit and send it as an email to a friend . "
so , we are looking for an era where computing will actually merge with the physical world .
and , of course , if you don 't have any surface , you can start using your palm for simple operations .
here , i 'm dialing a phone number just using my hand .
the camera is actually not only understanding your hand movements , but , interestingly , is also able to understand what objects you are holding in your hand .
what we 're doing here is actually --
for example , in this case , the book cover is matched with so many thousands , or maybe millions of books online , and checking out which book it is .
once it has that information , it finds out more reviews about that , or maybe new york times has a sound overview on that , so you can actually hear , on a physical book , a review as sound .
this was obama 's visit last week to mit .
so , i was seeing the live [ video ] of his talk , outside , on just a newspaper .
your newspaper will show you live weather information rather than having it updated -- like , you have to check your computer in order to do that , right ?
when i 'm going back , i can just use my boarding pass to check how much my flight has been delayed , because at that particular time , i 'm not feeling like opening my iphone , and checking out a particular icon .
and i think this technology will not only change the way --
yes .
it will change the way we interact with people , also , not only the physical world .
the fun part is , i 'm going to the boston metro , and playing a pong game inside the train on the ground , right ?
and i think the imagination is the only limit of what you can think of when this kind of technology merges with real life .
but many of you argue , actually , that all of our work is not only about physical objects .
we actually do lots of accounting and paper editing and all those kinds of things ; what about that ?
and many of you are excited about the next generation tablet computers to come out in the market .
so , rather than waiting for that , i actually made my own , just using a piece of paper .
so , what i did here is remove the camera --
all the webcam cameras have a microphone inside the camera .
i removed the microphone from that , and then just pinched that --
like i just made a clip out of the microphone --
and clipped that to a piece of paper , any paper that you found around .
so now the sound of the touch is getting me when exactly i 'm touching the paper .
but the camera is actually tracking where my fingers are moving .
you can of course watch movies .
( " good afternoon . my name is russell ... and i am a wilderness explorer in tribe 54 . " ) and you can of course play games .
here , the camera is actually understanding how you 're holding the paper and playing a car-racing game .
many of you already must have thought , ok , you can browse .
yeah . of course you can browse to any websites or you can do all sorts of computing on a piece of paper wherever you need it .
so , more interestingly , i 'm interested in how we can take that in a more dynamic way .
when i come back to my desk i can just pinch that information back to my desktop so i can use my full-size computer .
and why only computers ? we can just play with papers .
paper world is interesting to play with .
here , i 'm taking a part of a document and putting over here a second part from a second place --
and i 'm actually modifying the information that i have over there .
yeah . and i say , " ok , this looks nice , let me print it out , that thing . "
so i now have a print-out of that thing , and now --
the workflow is more intuitive the way we used to do it maybe 20 years back , rather than now switching between these two worlds .
so , as a last thought , i think that integrating information to everyday objects will not only help us to get rid of the digital divide , the gap between these two worlds , but will also help us , in some way , to stay human , to be more connected to our physical world .
and it will actually help us not end up being machines sitting in front of other machines .
that 's all . thank you .
thank you .
chris anderson : so , pranav , first of all , you 're a genius .
this is incredible , really .
what are you doing with this ? is there a company being planned ?
or is this research forever , or what ?
pranav mistry : so , there are lots of companies -- actually sponsor companies of media lab --
interested in taking this ahead in one or another way .
companies like mobile phone operators want to take this in a different way than the ngos in india , [ who ] are thinking , " why can we only have ' sixth sense ' ?
we should have a ' fifth sense ' for missing-sense people who cannot speak .
this technology can be used for them to speak out in a different way with maybe a speaker system . "
ca : what are your own plans ? are you staying at mit , or are you going to do something with this ?
pm : i 'm trying to make this more available to people so that anyone can develop their own sixthsense device , because the hardware is actually not that hard to manufacture or hard to make your own .
we will provide all the open source software for them , maybe starting next month .
ca : open source ? wow .
ca : are you going to come back to india with some of this , at some point ?
pm : yeah . yes , yes , of course .
ca : what are your plans ? mit ?
india ? how are you going to split your time going forward ?
pm : there is a lot of energy here . lots of learning .
all of this work that you have seen is all about my learning in india .
and now , if you see , it 's more about the cost-effectiveness : this system costs you $ 300 compared to the $ 20,000 surface tables , or anything like that .
or maybe even the $ 2 mouse gesture system at that time was costing around $ 5,000 ?
so , we actually -- i showed that , at a conference , to president abdul kalam , at that time , and then he said , " ok , we should use this in bhabha atomic research centre for some use of that . "
so i 'm excited about how i can bring the technology to the masses rather than just keeping that technology in the lab environment .
ca : based on the people we 've seen at ted , i would say you 're truly one of the two or three best inventors in the world right now .
it 's an honor to have you at ted .
thank you so much .
that 's fantastic .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / denis _ dutton _ a _ darwinian _ theory _ of _ beauty.html
ted collaborates with animator andrew park to illustrate denis dutton 's provocative theory on beauty -- that art , music and other beautiful things , far from being simply " in the eye of the beholder , " are a core part of human nature with deep evolutionary origins .
art , arts , beauty , brain , culture , design , evolution , society
1008
denis dutton : a darwinian theory of beauty
delighted to be here and to talk to you about a subject dear to my heart , which is beauty .
i do the philosophy of art , aesthetics , actually , for a living .
i try to figure out intellectually , philosophically , psychologically , what the experience of beauty is , what sensibly can be said about it and how people go off the rails in trying to understand it .
now this is an extremely complicated subject , in part because the things that we call beautiful are so different .
i mean just think of the sheer variety -- a baby 's face , berlioz 's " harold in italy , " movies like " the wizard of oz " or the plays of chekhov , a central california landscape , a hokusai view of mt . fuji , " der rosenkavalier , " a stunning match-winning goal in a world cup soccer match , van gogh 's " starry night , " a jane austen novel , fred astaire dancing across the screen .
this brief list includes human beings , natural landforms , works of art and skilled human actions .
an account that explains the presence of beauty in everything on this list is not going to be easy .
i can , however , give you at least a taste of what i regard as the most powerful theory of beauty we yet have .
and we get it not from a philosopher of art , not from a postmodern art theorist or a bigwig art critic .
no , this theory comes from an expert on barnacles and worms and pigeon breeding ,
and you know who i mean : charles darwin .
of course , a lot of people think they already know the proper answer to the question , " what is beauty ? "
it 's in the eye of the beholder .
it 's whatever moves you personally .
or , as some people , especially academics prefer , beauty is in the culturally conditioned eye of the beholder .
people agree that paintings or movies or music are beautiful because their cultures determine a uniformity of aesthetic taste .
taste for both natural beauty and for the arts travel across cultures with great ease .
beethoven is adored in japan .
peruvians love japanese woodblock prints .
inca sculptures are regarded as treasures in british museums , while shakespeare is translated into every major language of the earth .
or just think about american jazz or american movies -- they go everywhere .
there are many differences among the arts , but there are also universal , cross-cultural aesthetic pleasures and values .
how can we explain this universality ?
the best answer lies in trying to reconstruct a darwinian evolutionary history of our artistic and aesthetic tastes .
we need to reverse-engineer our present artistic tastes and preferences and explain how they came to be engraved in our minds
by the actions of both our prehistoric , largely pleistocene environments , where we became fully human , but also by the social situations in which we evolved .
this reverse engineering can also enlist help from the human record preserved in prehistory .
i mean fossils , cave paintings and so forth .
and it should take into account what we know of the aesthetic interests of isolated hunter-gatherer bands that survived into the 19th and the 20th centuries .
now , i personally have no doubt whatsoever that the experience of beauty , with its emotional intensity and pleasure , belongs to our evolved human psychology .
the experience of beauty is one component in a whole series of darwinian adaptations .
beauty is an adaptive effect , which we extend and intensify in the creation and enjoyment of works of art and entertainment .
as many of you will know , evolution operates by two main primary mechanisms .
the first of these is natural selection -- that 's random mutation and selective retention -- along with our basic anatomy and physiology -- the evolution of the pancreas or the eye or the fingernails .
natural selection also explains many basic revulsions , such as the horrid smell of rotting meat , or fears , such as the fear of snakes or standing close to the edge of a cliff .
natural selection also explains pleasures -- sexual pleasure , our liking for sweet , fat and proteins , which in turn explains a lot of popular foods , from ripe fruits through chocolate malts and barbecued ribs .
the other great principle of evolution is sexual selection , and it operates very differently .
the peacock 's magnificent tail is the most famous example of this .
it did not evolve for natural survival .
in fact , it goes against natural survival .
no , the peacock 's tail results from the mating choices made by peahens .
it 's quite a familiar story .
it 's women who actually push history forward .
darwin himself , by the way , had no doubts that the peacock 's tail was beautiful in the eyes of the peahen .
he actually used that word .
now , keeping these ideas firmly in mind , we can say that the experience of beauty is one of the ways that evolution has of arousing and sustaining interest or fascination , even obsession , in order to encourage us toward making the most adaptive decisions for survival and reproduction .
beauty is nature 's way of acting at a distance , so to speak .
i mean , you can 't expect to eat an adaptively beneficial landscape .
it would hardly do to eat your baby or your lover .
so evolution 's trick is to make them beautiful , to have them exert a kind of magnetism to give you the pleasure of simply looking at them .
consider briefly an important source of aesthetic pleasure , the magnetic pull of beautiful landscapes .
people in very different cultures all over the world tend to like a particular kind of landscape , a landscape that just happens to be similar to the pleistocene savannas where we evolved .
this landscape shows up today on calendars , on postcards , in the design of golf courses and public parks and in gold-framed pictures that hang in living rooms from new york to new zealand .
it 's a kind of hudson river school landscape featuring open spaces of low grasses interspersed with copses of trees .
the trees , by the way , are often preferred if they fork near the ground , that is to say , if they 're trees you could scramble up if you were in a tight fix .
the landscape shows the presence of water directly in view , or evidence of water in a bluish distance , indications of animal or bird life as well as diverse greenery and finally -- get this -- a path or a road , perhaps a riverbank or a shoreline , that extends into the distance , almost inviting you to follow it .
this landscape type is regarded as beautiful , even by people in countries that don 't have it .
the ideal savanna landscape is one of the clearest examples where human beings everywhere find beauty in similar visual experience .
but , someone might argue , that 's natural beauty .
how about artistic beauty ?
isn 't that exhaustively cultural ?
no , i don 't think it is .
and once again , i 'd like to look back to prehistory to say something about it .
it is widely assumed that the earliest human artworks are the stupendously skillful cave paintings that we all know from lascaux and chauvet .
chauvet caves are about 32,000 years old , along with a few small , realistic sculptures of women and animals from the same period .
but artistic and decorative skills are actually much older than that . beautiful shell necklaces that look like something you 'd see at an arts and crafts fair , as well as ochre body paint , have been found from around 100,000 years ago .
but the most intriguing prehistoric artifacts are older even than this .
i have in mind the so-called acheulian hand axes .
the oldest stone tools are choppers from the olduvai gorge in east africa .
they go back about two-and-a-half-million years .
these crude tools were around for thousands of centuries , until around 1.4 million years ago when homo erectus started shaping single , thin stone blades , sometimes rounded ovals , but often in what are to our eyes an arresting , symmetrical pointed leaf or teardrop form .
these acheulian hand axes -- they 're named after st. acheul in france , where finds were made in 19th century -- have been unearthed in their thousands , scattered across asia , europe and africa , almost everywhere homo erectus and homo ergaster roamed .
now , the sheer numbers of these hand axes shows that they can 't have been made for butchering animals .
and the plot really thickens when you realize that , unlike other pleistocene tools , the hand axes often exhibit no evidence of wear on their delicate blade edges .
and some , in any event , are too big to use for butchery .
their symmetry , their attractive materials and , above all , their meticulous workmanship are simply quite beautiful to our eyes , even today .
so what were these ancient -- i mean , they 're ancient , they 're foreign , but they 're at the same time somehow familiar .
what were these artifacts for ?
the best available answer is that they were literally the earliest known works of art , practical tools transformed into captivating aesthetic objects , contemplated both for their elegant shape and their virtuoso craftsmanship .
hand axes mark an evolutionary advance in human history -- tools fashioned to function as what darwinians call " fitness signals " -- that is to say , displays that are performances like the peacock 's tail , except that , unlike hair and feathers , the hand axes are consciously cleverly crafted .
competently made hand axes indicated desirable personal qualities -- intelligence , fine motor control , planning ability , conscientiousness and sometimes access to rare materials .
over tens of thousands of generations , such skills increased the status of those who displayed them and gained a reproductive advantage over the less capable .
you know , it 's an old line , but it has been shown to work -- " why don 't you come up to my cave , so i can show you my hand axes ? " except , of course , what 's interesting about this is that we can 't be sure how that idea was conveyed , because the homo erectus that made these objects did not have language .
it 's hard to grasp , but it 's an incredible fact .
this object was made by a hominid ancestor , homo erectus or homo ergaster , between 50,000 and 100,000 years before language .
stretching over a million years , the hand axe tradition is the longest artistic tradition in human and proto-human history .
by the end of the hand axe epic , homo sapiens -- as they were then called , finally -- were doubtless finding new ways to amuse and amaze each other by , who knows , telling jokes , storytelling , dancing , or hairstyling .
yes , hairstyling -- i insist on that .
for us moderns , virtuoso technique is used to create imaginary worlds in fiction and in movies , to express intense emotions with music , painting and dance .
but still , one fundamental trait of the ancestral personality persists in our aesthetic cravings : the beauty we find in skilled performances .
from lascaux to the louvre to carnegie hall , human beings have a permanent innate taste for virtuoso displays in the arts .
we find beauty in something done well .
so the next time you pass a jewelry shop window displaying a beautifully cut teardrop-shaped stone , don 't be so sure it 's just your culture telling you that that sparkling jewel is beautiful .
your distant ancestors loved that shape and found beauty in the skill needed to make it , even before they could put their love into words .
is beauty in the eye of the beholder ?
no , it 's deep in our minds .
it 's a gift handed down from the intelligent skills and rich emotional lives of our most ancient ancestors .
our powerful reaction to images , to the expression of emotion in art , to the beauty of music , to the night sky , will be with us and our descendants for as long as the human race exists .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / dennis _ hong _ making _ a _ car _ for _ blind _ drivers.html
using robotics , laser rangefinders , gps and smart feedback tools , dennis hong is building a car for drivers who are blind . it 's not a " self-driving " car , he 's careful to note , but a car in which a non-sighted driver can determine speed , proximity and route -- and drive independently .
design , technology , transportation
1158
dennis hong : making a car for blind drivers
many believe driving is an activity solely reserved for those who can see .
a blind person driving a vehicle safely and independently was thought to be an impossible task , until now .
hello , my name is dennis hong , and we 're bringing freedom and independence to the blind by building a vehicle for the visually impaired .
so before i talk about this car for the blind , let me briefly tell you about another project that i worked on called the darpa urban challenge .
now this was about building a robotic car that can drive itself .
you press start , nobody touches anything , and it can reach its destination fully autonomously .
so in 2007 , our team won half a million dollars by placing third place in this competition .
so about that time , the national federation of the blind , or nfb , challenged the research committee about who can develop a car that lets a blind person drive safely and independently .
we decided to give it a try ,
because we thought , " hey , how hard could it be ? "
we have already an autonomous vehicle .
we just put a blind person in it and we 're done , right ?
we couldn 't have been more wrong .
what nfb wanted was not a vehicle that can drive a blind person around , but a vehicle where a blind person can make active decisions and drive .
so we had to throw everything out the window and start from scratch .
so to test this crazy idea , we developed a small dune buggy prototype vehicle to test the feasibility .
and in the summer of 2009 , we invited dozens of blind youth from all over the country and gave them a chance to take it for a spin .
it was an absolutely amazing experience .
but the problem with this car was it was designed to only be driven in a very controlled environment , in a flat , closed-off parking lot -- even the lanes defined by red traffic cones .
so with this success , we decided to take the next big step , to develop a real car that can be driven on real roads .
so how does it work ?
well , it 's a rather complex system , but let me try to explain it , maybe simplify it .
so we have three steps .
we have perception , computation and non-visual interfaces .
now obviously the driver cannot see , so the system needs to perceive the environment and gather information for the driver .
for that , we use an initial measurement unit .
so it measures acceleration , angular acceleration -- like a human ear , inner ear .
we fuse that information with a gps unit to get an estimate of the location of the car .
we also use two cameras to detect the lanes of the road .
and we also use three laser range finders .
the lasers scan the environment to detect obstacles -- a car approaching from the front , the back and also any obstacles that run into the roads , any obstacles around the vehicle .
so all this vast amount of information is then fed into the computer , and the computer can do two things .
one is , first of all , process this information to have an understanding of the environment -- these are the lanes of the road , there 's the obstacles -- and convey this information to the driver .
the system is also smart enough to figure out the safest way to operate the car .
so we can also generate instructions on how to operate the controls of the vehicle .
but the problem is this : how do we convey this information and instructions to a person who cannot see fast enough and accurate enough so he can drive ?
so for this , we developed many different types of non-visual user interface technology .
so starting from a three-dimensional ping sound system , a vibrating vest , a click wheel with voice commands , a leg strip , even a shoe that applies pressure to the foot .
but today we 're going to talk about three of these non-visual user interfaces .
now the first interface is called a drivegrip .
so these are a pair of gloves , and it has vibrating elements on the knuckle part so you can convey instructions about how to steer -- the direction and the intensity .
another device is called speedstrip .
so this is a chair -- as a matter of fact , it 's actually a massage chair .
we gut it out , and we rearrange the vibrating elements in different patterns ,
and we actuate them to convey information about the speed , and also instructions how to use the gas and the brake pedal .
so over here , you can see how the computer understands the environment ,
and because you cannot see the vibration , we actually put red led 's on the driver so that you can see what 's happening .
this is the sensory data , and that data is transferred to the devices through the computer .
so these two devices , drivegrip and speedstrip , are very effective .
but the problem is these are instructional cue devices .
so this is not really freedom , right ?
the computer tells you how to drive -- turn left , turn right , speed up , stop .
we call this the " backseat-driver problem . "
so we 're moving away from the instructional cue devices , and we 're now focusing more on the informational devices .
a good example for this informational non-visual user interface is called airpix .
so think of it as a monitor for the blind .
so it 's a small tablet , has many holes in it , and compressed air comes out , so it can actually draw images .
so even though you are blind , you can put your hand over it , you can see the lanes of the road and obstacles .
actually , you can also change the frequency of the air coming out and possibly the temperature .
so it 's actually a multi-dimensional user interface .
so here you can see the left camera , the right camera from the vehicle and how the computer interprets that and sends that information to the airpix .
for this , we 're showing a simulator , a blind person driving using the airpix .
this simulator was also very useful for training the blind drivers and also quickly testing different types of ideas for different types of non-visual user interfaces .
so basically that 's how it works .
so just a month ago , on january 29th , we unveiled this vehicle for the very first time to the public at the world-famous daytona international speedway during the rolex 24 racing event .
we also had some surprises . let 's take a look .
announcer : this is an historic day in january .
he 's coming up to the grandstand , fellow federationists . there 's the grandstand now .
and he 's [ unclear ] following that van that 's out in front of him .
well there comes the first box .
now let 's see if mark avoids it .
he does . he passes it on the right .
third box is out . the fourth box is out .
and he 's perfectly making his way between the two .
he 's closing in on the van to make the moving pass .
well this is what it 's all about , this kind of dynamic display of audacity and ingenuity .
he 's approaching the end of the run , makes his way between the barrels that are set up there .
dennis hong : i 'm so happy for you .
mark 's going to give me a ride back to the hotel .
mark riccobono : yes .
dh : so since we started this project , we 've been getting hundreds of letters , emails , phone calls from people from all around the world .
letters thanking us , but sometimes you also get funny letters like this one : " now i understand why there is braille on a drive-up atm machine . "
but sometimes -- but sometimes i also do get -- i wouldn 't call it hate mail -- but letters of really strong concern : " dr. hong , are you insane , trying to put blind people on the road ?
you must be out of your mind . "
but this vehicle is a prototype vehicle , and it 's not going to be on the road until it 's proven as safe as , or safer than , today 's vehicle .
and i truly believe that this can happen .
but still , will the society , would they accept such a radical idea ?
how are we going to handle insurance ?
how are we going to issue driver 's licenses ?
there 's many of these different kinds of hurdles besides technology challenges that we need to address before this becomes a reality .
of course , the main goal of this project is to develop a car for the blind .
but potentially more important than this is the tremendous value of the spin-off technology that can come from this project .
the sensors that are used can see through the dark , the fog and rain .
and together with this new type of interfaces , we can use these technologies and apply them to safer cars for sighted people .
or for the blind , everyday home appliances -- in the educational setting , in the office setting .
just imagine , in a classroom a teacher writes on the blackboard and a blind student can see what 's written and read using these non-visual interfaces .
this is priceless .
so today , the things i 've showed you today , is just the beginning .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / thomas _ barnett _ draws _ a _ new _ map _ for _ peace.html
in this bracingly honest talk , international security strategist thomas barnett outlines a post-cold war solution for the foundering u.s. military that is both sensible and breathtaking in its simplicity : break it in two .
culture , global issues , military , peace , technology , war
33
thomas barnett draws a new map for peace
i get asked a lot what the difference between my work is and typical pentagon long-range strategic planners .
and the answer i like to offer is what they typically do is they think about the future of wars in the context of war .
and what i 've spent 15 years doing in this business -- and it 's taken me almost 14 to figure it out -- is i think about the future of wars in the context of everything else .
so i tend to specialize on the scene between war and peace .
the material i 'm going to show you is one idea from a book
with a lot of ideas .
it 's the one that takes me around the world right now interacting with foreign militaries quite a bit .
the material was generated in two years of work i did for the secretary of defense , thinking about a new national grand strategy for the united states .
i 'm going to present a problem and try to give you an answer .
here 's my favorite bonehead concept from the 1990s in the pentagon : the theory of anti-access , area-denial asymmetrical strategies .
why do we call it that ?
because it 's got all those a 's lined up i guess .
this is gobbledygook for if the united states fights somebody we 're going to be huge . they 're going to be small .
and if they try to fight us in the traditional , straight-up manner we 're going to kick their ass , which is why people don 't try to do that any more .
i met the last air force general who had actually shot down an enemy plane in combat .
he 's now a one star general .
that 's how distant we are from even meeting an air force willing to fly against ours .
so that overmatched capability creates problems -- catastrophic successes the white house calls them .
and we 're trying to figure that out , because it is an amazing capability .
the question is , what 's the good you can do with it ?
ok ?
the theory of anti-access , area-denial asymmetrical strategies -- gobbledygook that we sell to congress , because if we just told them we can kick anybody 's asses they wouldn 't buy us all the stuff we want .
so we say , area-denial , anti-access asymmetrical strategies and their eyes glaze over .
and they say , " will you build it in my district ? "
here 's my parody and it ain 't much of one .
let 's talk about a battle space . i don 't know , taiwan straits 2025 .
let 's talk about an enemy embedded within that battle space .
i don 't know , the million man swim .
the united states has to access that battle space instantaneously .
they throw up anti-access , area-denial asymmetrical strategies .
a banana peel on the tarmac .
trojan horses on our computer networks reveal all our achilles ' heels instantly .
we say , " china , it 's yours . "
prometheus approach , largely a geographic definition , focuses almost exclusively on the start of conflict .
we field the first-half team in a league that insists on keeping score until the end of the game .
that 's the problem .
we can run the score up against anybody , and then get our asses kicked in the second half -- what they call fourth generation warfare .
here 's the way i like to describe it instead .
there is no battle space the u.s. military cannot access .
they said we couldn 't do afghanistan . we did it with ease .
they said we couldn 't do iraq .
we did it with 150 combat casualties in six weeks .
we did it so fast we weren 't prepared for their collapse .
there is nobody we can 't take down .
the question is , what do you do with the power ?
so there 's no trouble accessing battle spaces .
what we have trouble accessing is the transition space that must naturally follow , and creating the peace space that allows us to move on .
problem is , the defense department over here beats the hell out of you .
the state department over here says , " come on boy , i know you can make it . " and that poor country runs off that ledge , does that cartoon thing and then drops .
this is not about overwhelming force , but proportional force .
it 's about non-lethal technologies , because if you fire real ammo into a crowd of women and children rioting you 're going to lose friends very quickly .
this is not about projecting power , but about staying power , which is about legitimacy with the locals .
who do you access in this transition space ?
you have to create internal partners . you have to access coalition partners .
we asked the indians for 17,000 peace keepers .
i know their senior leadership , they wanted to give it to us .
but they said to us , " you know what ?
in that transition space you 're mostly hat not enough cattle .
we don 't think you can pull it off , we 're not going to give you our 17,000 peace keepers for fodder . "
we asked the russians for 40,000 .
they said no .
i was in china in august , i said , " you should have 50,000 peace keepers in iraq . it 's your oil , not ours . " which is the truth . it 's their oil .
and the chinese said to me , " dr. barnett , you 're absolutely right .
in a perfect world we 'd have 50,000 there .
but it 's not a perfect world , and your administration isn 't getting us any closer . " but we have trouble accessing our outcomes .
we lucked out , frankly , on the selection .
we face different opponents across these three .
and it 's time to start admitting you can 't ask the same 19-year-old to do it all , day in and day out .
it 's just too damn hard .
we have an unparalleled capacity to wage war .
we don 't do the everything else so well .
frankly , we do it better than anybody and we still suck at it .
we have a brilliant secretary of war .
we don 't have a secretary of everything else .
because if we did , that guy would be in front of the senate , still testifying over abu ghraib .
the problem is he doesn 't exist .
there is no secretary of everything else .
i think we have an unparalleled capacity to wage war .
i call that the leviathan force .
what we need to build is a force for the everything else . i call them the system administrators .
what i think this really represents is lack of an a to z rule set for the world as a whole for processing politically bankrupt states .
we have one for processing economically bankrupt states .
it 's the imf sovereign bankruptcy plan , ok ?
we argue about it every time we use it .
argentina just went through it , broke a lot of rules .
they got out on the far end , we said , " fine , don 't worry about it . "
it 's transparent . a certain amount of certainty gives the sense of a non-zero outcome .
we don 't have one for processing politically bankrupt states that , frankly , everybody wants gone .
like saddam , like mugabe , like kim jong-il -- people who kill in hundreds of thousands or millions .
like the 250,000 dead so far in sudan .
what would an a to z system look like ?
i 'm going to distinguish between what i call front half and back half .
and let 's call this red line , i don 't know , mission accomplished .
what we have extant right now , at the beginning of this system , is the u.n. security council as a grand jury .
what can they do ?
they can indict your ass .
they can debate it . they can write it on a piece of paper . they can put it in an envelope and mail it to you ,
and then say in no uncertain terms , " please cut that out . "
that gets you about four million dead in central africa over the 1990s .
that gets you 250,000 dead in the sudan in the last 15 months .
everybody 's got to answer their grandchildren some day what you did about the holocaust in africa ,
and you better have an answer .
we don 't have anything to translate that will into action .
what we do have is the u.s.-enabled leviathan force that says , " you want me to take that guy down ? i 'll take that guy down .
i 'll do it on tuesday . it will cost you 20 billion dollars . " but here 's the deal .
as soon as i can 't find anybody else to air out , i leave the scene immediately .
that 's called the powell doctrine .
way downstream we have the international criminal court .
they love to put them on trial . they 've got milosevic right now .
what are we missing ?
a functioning executive that will translate will into action ,
because we don 't have it . every time we lead one of these efforts we have to whip ourselves into this imminent threat thing .
we haven 't faced an imminent threat since the cuban missile crisis in 1962 .
but we use this language from a bygone era to scare ourselves into doing something because we 're a democracy and that 's what it takes .
and if that doesn 't work we scream , " he 's got a gun ! " just as we rush in .
and then we look over the body and we find an old cigarette lighter and we say , " jesus , it was dark . " do you want to do it , france ?
france says , " no , but i do like to criticize you after the fact . " what we need downstream is a great power enabled -- what i call that sys admin force .
we should have had 250,000 troops streaming into iraq on the heels of that leviathan sweeping towards baghdad .
what do you get then ?
no looting , no military disappearing , no arms disappearing , no ammo disappearing , no muqtada al-sadr -- i 'm wrecking his bones -- no insurgency .
talk to anybody who was over there in the first six months .
we had six months to feel the lob , to get the job done , and we dicked around for six months .
and then they turned on us .
why ? because they just got fed up .
they saw what we did to saddam .
they said , " you 're that powerful , you can resurrect this country .
you 're america . " what we need is an international reconstruction fund --
sebastian mallaby , washington post , great idea .
model on the imf .
instead of passing the hat each time , ok ?
where are we going to find this guy ? g20 , that 's easy .
check out their agenda since 9 / 11 .
all security dominated .
they 're going to decide up front how the money gets spent
just like in the imf .
you vote according to how much money you put in the kitty .
here 's my challenge to the defense department .
you 've got to build this force . you 've got to seed this force . you 've got to track coalition partners . create a record of success .
you will get this model .
you tell me it 's too hard to do .
i 'll walk this dog right through that six part series on the balkans .
we did it just like that .
i 'm talking about regularizing it , making it transparent .
would you like mugabe gone ?
would you like kim jong-il , who 's killed about two million people , would you like him gone ?
would you like a better system ?
this is why it matters to the military .
they 've been experiencing an identity crisis since the end of the cold war .
i 'm not talking about the difference between reality and desire , which i can do because i 'm not inside the beltway .
i 'm talking about the 1990s .
the berlin wall falls . we do desert storm .
the split starts to emerge between those in the military who see a future they can live with , and those who see a future that starts to scare them ,
like the u.s. submarine community , which watches the soviet navy disappear overnight .
ah !
so they start moving from reality towards desire and they create their own special language to describe their voyage of self-discovery and self-actualization .
the problem is you need a big , sexy opponent to fight against .
and if you can 't find one you 've got to make one up .
china , all grown up , going to be a looker !
the rest of the military got dragged down into the muck across the 1990s
and they developed this very derisive term to describe it : military operations other than war .
i ask you , who joins the military to do things other than war ?
actually , most of them .
jessica lynch never planned on shooting back .
most of them don 't pick up a rifle .
i maintain this is code inside the army for , " we don 't want to do this . "
they spent the 1990s working the messy scene between globalized parts of the world
what i call the core and the gap .
the clinton administration wasn 't interested in running this .
for eight years , after screwing up the relationship on day one -- inauguration day with gays in the military -- which was deft .
so we were home alone for eight years .
and what did we do home alone ?
we bought one military and we operated another .
it 's like the guy who goes to the doctor and says , " doctor , it hurts when i do this . " the doctor says , " stop doing that you idiot . " i used to give this brief inside the pentagon in the early 1990s .
i 'd say , " you 're buying one military and you 're operating another ,
and eventually it 's going to hurt . it 's wrong .
bad pentagon , bad ! " and they 'd say , " dr. barnett , you are so right .
can you come back next year and remind us again ? " some people say 9 / 11 heals the rift -- jerks the long-term transformation gurus out of their 30,000 foot view of history , drags them down in to the muck and says , " you want a networked opponent ?
i 've got one , he 's everywhere , go find him . "
it elevates mootw -- how we pronounce that acronym -- from crap to grand strategy , because that 's how you 're going to shrink that gap .
some people put these two things together and they call it empire , which i think is a boneheaded concept .
empire is about the enforcement of not just minimal rule sets , which you cannot do , but maximum rule sets which you must do .
it 's not our system of governance .
never how we 've sought to interact with the outside world .
i prefer that phrase system administration .
we enforce the minimal rule sets for maintaining connectivity to the global economy .
certain bad things you cannot do .
how this impacts the way we think about the future of war .
this is a concept which gets me vilified throughout the pentagon .
it makes me very popular as well .
everybody 's got an opinion .
going back to the beginning of our country -- historically , defenses meant protection of the homeland .
security has meant everything else .
written into our constitution , two different forces , two different functions .
raise an army when you need it , and maintain a navy for day-to-day connectivity .
a department of war , a department of everything else .
a big stick , a baton stick .
can of whup ass , the networking force .
in 1947 we merged these two things together in the defense department .
our long-term rationale becomes , we 're involved in a hair trigger stand off with the soviets .
to attack america is to risk blowing up the world .
we connected national security to international security with about a seven minute time delay .
that 's not our problem now .
they can kill three million in chicago tomorrow and we don 't go to the mattresses with nukes .
that 's the scary part .
the question is how do we reconnect american national security with global security to make the world a lot more comfortable , and to embed and contextualize our employment of force around the planet ?
what 's happened since is that bifurcation i described .
we talked about this going all the way back to the end of the cold war .
let 's have a department of war , and a department of something else .
some people say , " hell , 9 / 11 did it for you . "
now we 've got a home game and an away game .
the department of homeland security is a strategic feel good measure .
it 's going to be the department of agriculture for the 21st century .
tsa -- thousands standing around .
just be grateful robert reed didn 't shove that bomb up his ass .
because we 'd all be gay then .
i supported the war in iraq .
he was a bad guy with multiple priors .
it 's not like we had to find him actually killing somebody live to arrest him .
i knew we 'd kick ass in the war with the leviathan force .
i knew we 'd have a hard time with what followed .
but i know this organization doesn 't change until it experiences failure .
what do i mean by these two different forces ?
this is the hobbesian force .
i love this force . i don 't want to see it go . that plus nukes rules out great power war .
this is the military the rest of the world wants us to build .
it 's why i travel all over the world talking to foreign militaries .
what does this mean ?
it means you 've got to stop pretending you can do these two very disparate skill sets with the same 19-year-old .
switching back , morning , afternoon , evening , morning , afternoon , evening .
handing out aid , shooting back , handing out aid , shooting back .
it 's too much .
the 19-year-olds get tired from the switching , ok ?
that force on the left , you can train a 19-year-old to do that .
that force on the right is more like a 40-year-old cop .
you need the experience .
what does this mean in terms of operations ?
the rule is going to be this .
that sys admin force is the force that never comes home , does most of your work .
you break out that leviathan force only every so often .
but here 's the promise you make to the american public , to your own people , to the world .
you break out that leviathan force , you promise , you guarantee that you 're going to mount one hell of a -- immediately -- follow-on sys admin effort .
don 't plan for the war unless you plan to win the peace .
other differences . leviathan traditional partners , they all look like the brits and their former colonies .
including us , i would remind you .
the rest -- wider array of partners .
international organizations , non-governmental organizations , private voluntary organizations , contractors .
you 're not going to get away from that .
leviathan force , it 's all about joint operations between the military services .
we 're done with that .
what we need to do is inter-agency operations , which frankly condi rice was in charge of .
and i 'm amazed nobody asked her that question when she was confirmed .
i call the leviathan force your dad 's military .
i like them young , male , unmarried , slightly pissed off .
i call the sys admin force your mom 's military .
it 's everything the man 's military hates .
gender balanced much more , older , educated , married with children .
the force on the left , up or out .
the force on the right , in and out .
the force on the left respects posse comitatus restrictions on the use of force inside the u.s .
the force on the right 's going to obliterate it .
that 's where the national guard 's going to be .
the force on the left is never coming under the purview of the international criminal court .
sys admin force has to .
different definitions of network centricity .
one takes down networks , one puts them up .
and you 've got to wage war here in such a way to facilitate that .
do we need a bigger budget ?
do we need a draft to pull this off ?
absolutely not .
i 've been told by the revolution of military affairs crowd for years , we can do it faster , cheaper , smaller , just as lethal .
i say , " great , i 'm going to take the sys admin budget out of your hide . " here 's the larger point .
you 're going to build the sys admin force inside the u.s. military first .
but ultimately you 're going to civilianize it , probably two thirds .
inter agency-ize it , internationalize it .
so yes , it begins inside the pentagon , but over time it 's going to cross that river .
i have been to the mountain top . i can see the future .
i may not live long enough to get you there , but it 's going to happen .
we 're going to have a department of something else between war and peace .
last slide .
who gets custody of the kids ?
this is where the marines in the audience get kind of tense .
and this is when they think about beating the crap out of me after the talk .
read max boon .
this is the history of the marines -- small wars , small arms .
the marines are like my west highland terrier .
they get up every morning , they want to dig a hole and they want to kill something .
i don 't want my marines handing out aid . i want them to be marines .
that 's what keeps the sys admin force from being a pussy force .
it keeps it from being the u.n .
you shoot at these people the marines are going to come over and kill you .
department of navy , strategic subs go this way , surface combatants are over there , and the news is they may actually be that small .
i call it the smart dust navy .
i tell young officers , " you may command 500 ships in your career . bad news is they may not have anybody on them . "
carriers go both ways because they 're a swing asset .
you 'll see the pattern -- airborne , just like carriers .
armor goes this way .
here 's the dirty secret of the air force , you can win by bombing .
but you need lots of these guys on the ground to win the peace .
shinseki was right with the argument .
air force , strategic airlift goes both ways .
bombers , fighters go over here .
special operations command down at tampa .
trigger-pullers go this way .
civil affairs , that bastard child , comes over here .
return to the army .
the point about the trigger-pullers and special operations command .
no off season , these guys are always active .
they drop in , do their business , disappear .
see me now . don 't talk about it later .
i was never here .
the world is my playground .
i want to keep trigger-pullers trigger-happy .
i want the rules to be as loose as possible .
because when the thing gets prevented in chicago with the three million dead that perverts our political system beyond all recognition , these are the guys who are going to kill them first .
so it 's better off to have them make some mistakes along the way than to see that .
reserve component -- national guard reserves overwhelmingly sys admin .
how are you going to get them to work for this force ?
most firemen in this country do it for free .
this is not about money .
this is about being up front with these guys and gals .
last point , intelligence community -- the muscle and the defense agencies go this way .
what should be the cia , open , analytical , open source should come over here .
the information you need to do this is not secret .
it 's not secret .
read that great piece in the new yorker about how our echo boomers , 19 to 25 , over in iraq taught each other how to do sys admin work , over the internet in chat rooms .
they said , " al qaeda could be listening . " they said , " well , jesus , they already know this stuff . " take a gift in the left hand .
these are the sunglasses that don 't scare people , simple stuff .
censors and transparency , the overheads go in both directions .
thanks .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / freeman _ dyson _ says _ let _ s _ look _ for _ life _ in _ the _ outer _ solar _ system.html
physicist freeman dyson suggests that we start looking for life on the moons of jupiter and out past neptune , in the kuiper belt and the oort cloud . he talks about what such life would be like -- and how we might find it .
astronomy , biotech , exploration , physics , science , technology , universe
306
freeman dyson says : let 's look for life in the outer solar system
how will we be remembered in 200 years ?
i happen to live in a little town , princeton , in new jersey , which every year celebrates the great event in princeton history : the battle of princeton , which was , in fact , a very important battle .
it was the first battle that george washington won , in fact , and was pretty much of a turning point in the war of independence .
it happened 225 years ago .
it was actually a terrible disaster for princeton .
the town was burned down ; it was in the middle of winter , and it was a very , very severe winter .
and about a quarter of all the people in princeton died that winter from hunger and cold , but nobody remembers that .
what they remember is , of course , the great triumph , that the brits were beaten , and we won , and that the country was born .
and so i agree very emphatically that the pain of childbirth is not remembered . it 's the child that 's remembered .
and that 's what we 're going through at this time .
i wanted to just talk for one minute about the future of biotechnology ,
because i think i know very little about that -- i 'm not a biologist -- so everything i know about it can be said in one minute .
what i 'm saying is that we should follow the model that has been so successful with the electronic industry , that what really turned computers into a great success , in the world as a whole , is toys . as soon as computers became toys , when kids could come home and play with them , then the industry really took off . and that has to happen with biotech .
there 's a huge -- -- there 's a huge community of people in the world who are practical biologists , who are dog breeders , pigeon breeders , orchid breeders , rose breeders , people who handle biology with their hands , and who are dedicated to producing beautiful things , beautiful creatures , plants , animals , pets . these people will be empowered with biotech , and that will be an enormous positive step to acceptance of biotechnology .
that will blow away a lot of the opposition .
when people have this technology in their hands , you have a do-it-yourself biotech kit , grow your own --
grow your dog , grow your own cat .
just buy the software , you design it . i won 't say anymore , you can take it on from there . it 's going to happen , and i think it has to happen before the technology becomes natural , becomes part of the human condition , something that everybody 's familiar with and everybody accepts .
so , let 's leave that aside .
i want to talk about something quite different , which is what i know about , and that is astronomy .
and i 'm interested in searching for life in the universe .
and it 's open to us to introduce a new way of doing that , and that 's what i 'll talk about for 10 minutes , or whatever the time remains .
the important fact is , that most of the real estate that 's accessible to us -- i 'm not talking about the stars , i 'm talking about the solar system , the stuff that 's within reach for spacecraft and within reach of our earthbound telescopes --
most of the real estate is very cold and very far from the sun .
if you look at the solar system , as we know it today , it has a few planets close to the sun . that 's where we live .
it has a fairly substantial number of asteroids between the orbit of the earth out through -- to the orbit of jupiter .
the asteroids are a substantial amount of real estate , but not very large . and it 's not very promising for life , since most of it consists of rock and metal , mostly rock .
it 's not only cold , but very dry .
so the asteroids we don 't have much hope for .
there stand some interesting places a little further out : the moons of jupiter and saturn .
particularly , there 's a place called europa , which is -- europa is one of the moons of jupiter , where we see a very level ice surface , which looks as if it 's floating on top of an ocean .
so , we believe that on europa there is , in fact , a deep ocean .
and that makes it extraordinarily interesting as a place to explore .
ocean -- probably the most likely place for life to originate , just as it originated on the earth . so we would love to explore europa , to go down through the ice , find out who is swimming around in the ocean , whether there are fish or seaweed or sea monsters -- whatever there may be that 's exciting --- or cephalopods .
but that 's hard to do . unfortunately , the ice is thick .
we don 't know just how thick it is , probably miles thick , so it 's very expensive and very difficult to go down there -- send down your submarine or whatever it is -- and explore .
that 's something we don 't yet know how to do .
there are plans to do it , but it 's hard .
go out a bit further , you 'll find that beyond the orbit of neptune , way out , far from the sun , that 's where the real estate really begins .
you 'll find millions or trillions or billions of objects which , in what we call the kuiper belt or the oort cloud -- these are clouds of small objects which appear as comets when they fall close to the sun . mostly , they just live out there in the cold of the outer solar system , but they are biologically very interesting indeed , because they consist primarily of ice with other minerals , which are just the right ones for developing life .
so if life could be established out there , it would have all the essentials -- chemistry and sunlight -- everything that 's needed .
so , what i 'm proposing is that there is where we should be looking for life , rather than on mars , although mars is , of course , also a very promising and interesting place .
but we can look outside , very cheaply and in a simple fashion .
and that 's what i 'm going to talk about .
there is a -- imagine that life originated on europa , and it was sitting in the ocean for billions of years .
it 's quite likely that it would move out of the ocean onto the surface , just as it did on the earth .
staying in the ocean and evolving in the ocean for 2 billion years , finally came out onto the land . and then of course it had great -- much greater freedom , and a much greater variety of creatures developed on the land than had ever been possible in the ocean .
and the step from the ocean to the land was not easy , but it happened .
now , if life had originated on europa in the ocean , it could also have moved out onto the surface .
there wouldn 't have been any air there -- it 's a vacuum .
it is out in the cold , but it still could have come .
you can imagine that the plants growing up like kelp through cracks in the ice , growing on the surface .
what would they need in order to grow on the surface ?
they 'd need , first of all , to have a thick skin to protect themselves from losing water through the skin .
so they would have to have something like a reptilian skin .
but better -- what is more important is that they would have to concentrate sunlight .
the sunlight in jupiter , on the satellites of jupiter , is 25 times fainter than it is here , since jupiter is five times as far from the sun .
so they would have to have -- these creatures , which i call sunflowers , which i imagine living on the surface of europa , would have to have either lenses or mirrors to concentrate sunlight , so they could keep themselves warm on the surface .
otherwise , they would be at a temperature of minus 150 , which is certainly not favorable for developing life , at least of the kind we know .
but if they just simply could grow , like leaves , little lenses and mirrors to concentrate sunlight , then they could keep warm on the surface . they could enjoy all the benefits of the sunlight and have roots going down into the ocean ; life then could flourish much more .
so , why not look ? of course , it 's not very likely that there 's life on the surface of europa .
none of these things is likely , but my , my philosophy is , look for what 's detectable , not for what 's probable .
there 's a long history in astronomy of unlikely things turning out to be there . and i mean , the finest example of that was radio astronomy as a whole .
this was -- originally , when radio astronomy began , mr. jansky , at the bell labs , detected radio waves coming from the sky . and the regular astronomers were scornful about this .
they said , " it 's all right , you can detect radio waves from the sun , but the sun is the only object in the universe that 's close enough and bright enough actually to be detectable . you can easily calculate that radio waves from the sun are fairly faint , and everything else in the universe is millions of times further away , so it certainly will not be detectable .
so there 's no point in looking . "
and that , of course , that set back the progress of radio astronomy by about 20 years .
since there was nothing there , you might as well not look .
well , of course , as soon as anybody did look , which was after about 20 years , when radio astronomy really took off . because it turned out the universe is absolutely full of all kinds of wonderful things radiating in the radio spectrum , much brighter than the sun .
so , the same thing could be true for this kind of life , which i 'm talking about , on cold objects : that it could in fact be very abundant all over the universe , and it 's not been detected just because we haven 't taken the trouble to look .
so , the last thing i want to talk about is how to detect it .
there is something called pit lamping . that 's the phrase which i learned from my son george , who is there in the audience .
you take -- that 's a canadian expression . if you happen to want to hunt animals at night , you take a miner 's lamp , which is a pit lamp .
you strap it onto your forehead , so you can see the reflection in the eyes of the animal . so , if you go out at night , you shine a flashlight , the animals are bright .
you see the red glow in their eyes , which is the reflection of the flashlight .
and then , if you 're one of these unsporting characters , you shoot the animals and take them home .
and of course , that spoils the game for the other hunters who hunt in the daytime ,
so in canada that 's illegal . in new zealand , it 's legal , because the new zealand farmers use this as a way of getting rid of rabbits , because the rabbits compete with the sheep in new zealand .
so , the farmers go out at night with heavily armed jeeps , and shine the headlights , and anything that doesn 't look like a sheep , you shoot .
so i have proposed to apply the same trick to looking for life in the universe .
that if these creatures who are living on cold surfaces -- either on europa , or further out , anywhere where you can live on a cold surface -- those creatures must be provided with reflectors .
in order to concentrate sunlight , they have to have lenses and mirrors -- in order to keep themselves warm .
and then , when you shine sunlight at them , the sunlight will be reflected back , just as it is in the eyes of an animal .
so these creatures will be bright against the cold surroundings .
and the further out you go in this , away from the sun , the more powerful this reflection will be . so actually , this method of hunting for life gets stronger and stronger as you go further away , because the optical reflectors have to be more powerful so the reflected light shines out even more in contrast against the dark background .
so as you go further away from the sun , this becomes more and more powerful .
so , in fact , you can look for these creatures with telescopes from the earth .
why aren 't we doing it ? simply because nobody thought of it yet .
but i hope that we shall look , and with any -- we probably won 't find anything ,
none of these speculations may have any basis in fact . but still , it 's a good chance . and of course , if it happens , it will transform our view of life altogether .
because it means that -- the way life can live out there ,
it has enormous advantages as compared with living on a planet .
it 's extremely hard to move from one planet to another .
we 're having great difficulties at the moment and any creatures that live on a planet are pretty well stuck .
especially if you breathe air , it 's very hard to get from planet a to planet b , because there 's no air in between . but if you breathe air -- -- you 're dead -- -- as soon as you 're off the planet , unless you have a spaceship .
but if you live in a vacuum , if you live on the surface of one of these objects , say , in the kuiper belt , this -- an object like pluto , or one of the smaller objects in the neighborhood of pluto , and you happened -- if you 're living on the surface there , and you get knocked off the surface by a collision , then it doesn 't change anything all that much . you still are on a piece of ice , you can still have sunlight and you can still survive while you 're traveling from one place to another .
and then if you run into another object , you can stay there and colonize the other object . so life will spread , then , from one object to another . so if it exists at all in the kuiper belt , it 's likely to be very widespread . and you will have then a great competition amongst species -- darwinian evolution -- so there 'll be a huge advantage to the species which is able to jump from one place to another without having to wait for a collision . and there 'll be advantages for spreading out long , sort of kelp-like forest of vegetation .
i call these creatures sunflowers .
they look like , maybe like sunflowers .
they have to be all the time pointing toward the sun , and they will be able to spread out in space , because gravity on these objects is weak .
so they can collect sunlight from a big area .
so they will , in fact , be quite easy for us to detect .
so , i hope in the next 10 years , we 'll find these creatures , and then , of course , our whole view of life in the universe will change .
if we don 't find them , then we can create them ourselves .
that 's another wonderful opportunity that 's opening .
we can -- as soon as we have a little bit more understanding of genetic engineering , one of the things you can do with your take-it-home , do-it-yourself genetic engineering kit -- -- is to design a creature that can live on a cold satellite , a place like europa , so we could colonize europa with our own creatures .
that would be a fun thing to do .
in the long run , of course , it would also make it possible for us to move out there .
what 's going to happen in the end , it 's not going to be just humans colonizing space , it 's going to be life moving out from the earth ,
moving it into its kingdom . and the kingdom of life , of course , is going to be the universe . and if life is already there , it makes it much more exciting , in the short run . but in the long run , if there 's no life there , we create it ourselves .
we transform the universe into something much more rich and beautiful than it is today .
so again , we have a big and wonderful future to look forward .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / yves _ behar _ on _ designing _ objects _ that _ tell _ stories.html
designer yves behar digs up his creative roots to discuss some of the iconic objects he 's created . then he turns to the witty , surprising , elegant objects he 's working on now -- including the " $ 100 laptop . "
one laptop per child , business , computers , creativity , design , sex , society
266
yves behar on designing objects that tell stories
being a child , and sort of crawling around the house , i remember these turkish carpets ,
and there were these scenes , these battle scenes , these love scenes .
i mean , look , this animal is trying to fight back this spear from this soldier .
and my mom took these pictures actually , last week , of our carpets , and i remember this to this day .
there was another object , this sort of towering piece of furniture with creatures and gargoyles and nudity -- pretty scary stuff , when you 're a little kid .
what i remember today from this is that objects tell stories , so storytelling has been a really strong influence in my work .
and then there was another influence .
i was a teenager , and at 15 or 16 , i guess like all teenagers , we want to just do what we love and what we believe in .
and so , i fused together the two things i loved the most , which was skiing and windsurfing .
those are pretty good escapes from the drab weather in switzerland .
so , i created this compilation of the two : i took my skis and i took a board and i put a mast foot in there , and some foot straps , and some metal fins , and here i was , going really fast on frozen lakes .
it was really a death trap . i mean , it was incredible , it worked incredibly well , but it was really dangerous .
and i realized then i had to go to design school .
i mean , look at those graphics there .
so , i went to design school , and it was the early ' 90s when i finished . and i saw something extraordinary happening in silicon valley , so i wanted to be there , and i saw that the computer was coming into our homes ,
that it had to change in order to be with us in our homes .
and so i got myself a job and i was working for a consultancy , and we would get in to these meetings , and these managers would come in , and they would say , " well , what we 're going to do here is really important , you know . "
and they would give the projects code names , you know , mostly from " star wars , " actually : things like c3po , yoda , luke .
so , in anticipation , i would be this young designer in the back of the room , and i would raise my hand , and i would ask questions .
i mean , in retrospect , probably stupid questions , but things like , " what 's this caps lock key for ? "
or " what 's this num lock key for ? " you know , that thing ?
" you know , do people really use it ?
do they need it ? do they want it in their homes ? "
what i realized then is , they didn 't really want to change the legacy stuff ; they didn 't want to change the insides .
they were really looking for us , the designers , to create the skins , to put some pretty stuff outside of the box .
and i didn 't want to be a colorist .
it wasn 't what i wanted to do .
i didn 't want to be a stylist in this way .
and then i saw this quote : " advertising is the price companies pay for being unoriginal . "
so , i had to start on my own . so i moved to san francisco , and i started a little company , fuseproject .
and what i wanted to work on is important stuff .
and i wanted to really not just work on the skins , but i wanted to work on the entire human experience .
and so the first projects were sort of humble , but they took technology and maybe made it into things that people would use in a new way , and maybe finding some new functionality .
this is a watch we made for mini cooper , the car company , right when it launched , and it 's the first watch that has a display that switches from horizontal to vertical .
and that allows me to check my timer discretely , here , without bending my elbow .
and other projects , which were really about transformation , about matching the human need .
this is a little piece of furniture for an italian manufacturer , and it ships completely flat , and then it folds into a coffee table and a stool and whatnot .
and something a little bit more experimental : this is a light fixture for swarovski , and what it does is , it changes shape .
so , it goes from a circle , to a round , to a square , to a figure eight . and just by drawing on a little computer tablet , the entire light fixture adjusts to what shape you want .
and then finally , the leaf lamp for herman miller .
this is a pretty involved process ; it took us about four and a half years .
but i really was looking for creating a unique experience of light , a new experience of light .
so , we had to design both the light and the light bulb .
and that 's a unique opportunity , i would say , in design .
and the new experience i was looking for is giving the choice for the user to go from a warm , sort of glowing kind of mood light , all the way to a bright work light .
so , the light bulb actually does that .
it allows the person to switch , and to mix these two colorations .
and it 's done in a very simple way : one just touches the base of the light , and on one side , you can mix the brightness , and on the other , the coloration of the light .
so , all of these projects have a humanistic sense to them , and i think as designers we need to really think about how we can create a different relationship between our work and the world , whether it 's for business , or , as i 'm going to show , on some civic-type projects .
because i think everybody agrees that as designers we bring value to business , value to the users also , but i think it 's the values that we put into these projects that ultimately create the greater value .
and the values we bring can be about environmental issues , about sustainability , about lower power consumption .
you know , they can be about function and beauty ; they can be about business strategy .
but designers are really the glue that brings these things together .
so jawbone is a project that you 're familiar with , and it has a humanistic technology .
it feels your skin . it rests on your skin , and it knows when it is you 're talking .
and by knowing when it is you 're talking , it gets rid of the other noises that it knows about , which is the environmental noises .
but the other thing that is humanistic about jawbone is that we really decided to take out all the techie stuff , and all the nerdy stuff out of it , and try to make it as beautiful as we can .
i mean , think about it : the care we take in selecting sunglasses , or jewelry , or accessories is really important , so if it isn 't beautiful , it really doesn 't belong on your face .
and this is what we 're pursuing here .
but how we work on jawbone is really unique .
i want to point at something here , on the left .
this is the board , this is one of the things that goes inside that makes this technology work .
but this is the design process : there 's somebody changing the board , putting tracers on the board , changing the location of the ics , as the designers on the other side are doing the work .
so , it 's not about slapping skins , anymore , on a technology .
it 's really about designing from the inside out .
and then , on the other side of the room , the designers are making small adjustments , sketching , drawing by hand , putting it in the computer . and it 's what i call being design driven .
you know , there is some push and pull , but design is really helping define the whole experience from the inside out .
and then , of course , design is never done .
and this is -- the other new way that is unique in how we work is , because it 's never done , you have to do all this other stuff .
the packaging , and the website , and you need to continue to really touch the user , in many ways .
but how do you retain somebody , when it 's never done ?
and hosain rahman , the ceo of aliph jawbone , you know , really understands that you need a different structure .
so , in a way , the different structure is that we 're partners , it 's a partnership . we can continue to work and dedicate ourselves to this project , and then we also share in the rewards .
and here 's another project , another partnership-type approach .
this is called y water , and it 's this guy from los angeles , thomas arndt , austrian originally , who came to us , and all he wanted to do was to create a healthy drink , or an organic drink for his kids , to replace the high-sugar-content sodas that he 's trying to get them away from .
so , we worked on this bottle , and it 's completely symmetrical in every dimension .
and this allows the bottle to turn into a game .
the bottles connect together , and you can create different shapes , different forms .
thank you .
and then while we were doing this , the shape of the bottle upside down reminded us of a y , and then we thought , well these words , " why " and " why not , " are probably the most important words that kids ask .
so we called it y water . and so this is another place where it all comes together in the same room : the three-dimensional design , the ideas , the branding , it all becomes deeply connected .
and then the other thing about this project is , we bring intellectual property , we bring a marketing approach , we bring all this stuff , but i think , at the end of the day , what we bring is these values , and these values create a soul for the companies we work with .
and it 's especially rewarding when your design work becomes a creative endeavor , when others can be creative and do more with it .
here 's another project , which i think really emulates that .
this is the one laptop per child , the $ 100 laptop .
this picture is incredible .
in nigeria , people carry their most precious belongings on their heads .
this girl is going to school with a laptop on her head .
i mean , to me , it just means so much .
but when nicholas negroponte -- and he has spoken about this project a lot , he 's the founder of olpc -- came to us about two and a half years ago , there were some clear ideas .
he wanted to bring education and he wanted to bring technology , and those are pillars of his life , but also pillars of the mission of one laptop per child .
but the third pillar that he talked about was design .
and at the time , i wasn 't really working on computers .
i didn 't really want to , from the previous adventure .
but what he said was really significant , is that design was going to be why the kids were going to love this product ,
how we were going to make it low cost , robust . and plus , he said he was going to get rid of the caps lock key -- -- and the num lock key , too .
so , i was convinced . we designed it to be iconic , to look different . to look like it 's for a kid , but not like a toy .
and then the integration of all these great technologies , which you 've heard about , the wi-fi antennas that allow the kids to connect ; the screen , which you can read in sunlight ; the keyboard , which is made out of rubber , and it 's protected from the environment .
you know , all these great technologies really happened because of the passion and the olpc people and the engineers .
they fought the suppliers , they fought the manufacturers .
i mean , they fought like animals for this to remain they way it is .
and in a way , it is that will that makes projects like this one -- allows the process from not destroying the original idea .
and i think this is something really important .
so , now you get these pictures -- you get up in the morning , and you see the kids in nigeria and you see them in uruguay with their computers , and in mongolia .
and we went away from obviously the beige . i mean it 's colorful , it 's fun .
in fact , you can see each logo is a little bit different .
it 's because we were able to run , during the manufacturing process , 20 colors for the x and the o , which is the name of the computer , and by mixing them on the manufacturing floor , you get 20 times 20 : you get 400 different options there .
so , the lessons from seeing the kids using them in the developing world are incredible .
but this is my nephew , anthony , in switzerland , and he had the laptop for an afternoon , and i had to take it back . it was hard .
and it was a prototype . and a month and a half later , i come back to switzerland , and there he is playing with his own version .
like paper , paper and cardboard .
so , i 'm going to finish with one last project , and this is a little bit more of adult play .
some of you might have heard about the new york city condom .
it 's actually just launched , actually launched on valentine 's day , february 14 , about 10 days ago .
so , the department of health in new york came to us , and they needed a way to distribute 36 million condoms for free to the citizens of new york .
so a pretty big endeavor , and we worked on the dispensers . these are the dispensers . there 's this friendly shape .
it 's a little bit like designing a fire hydrant , and it has to be easily serviceable : you have to know where it is and what it does .
and we also designed the condoms themselves .
and i was just in new york at the launch , and i went to see all these places where they 're installed :
this is at a puerto rican little mom-and-pop store ; at a bar in christopher street ; at a pool hall .
i mean , they 're being installed in homeless clinics -- everywhere .
of course , clubs and discos , too .
and here 's the public service announcement for this project .
get some .
so , this is really where design is able to create a conversation .
i was in these venues , and people were , you know , really into getting them . they were excited .
it was breaking the ice , it was getting over a stigma , and i think that 's also what design can do .
so , i was going to throw some condoms in the room and whatnot , but i 'm not sure it 's the etiquette here .
yeah ? all right , all right . i have only a few .
so , i have more , you can always ask me for some more later .
and if anybody asks why you 're carrying a condom , you can just say you like the design .
so , i 'll finish with just one thought : if we all work together on creating value , but if we really keep in mind the values of the work that we do , i think we can change the work that we do .
we can change these values , can change the companies we work with , and eventually , together , maybe we can change the world .
so , thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eric _ whitacre _ virtual _ choir _ live.html
composer and conductor eric whitacre has inspired millions by bringing together " virtual choirs , " singers from many countries spliced together on video . now , for the first time ever , he creates the experience in real time , as 32 singers from around the world skype in to join an onstage choir for an epic performance of whitacre 's " cloudburst , " based on a poem by octavio paz .
collaboration , community , entertainment , live music , technology
1697
eric whitacre : virtual choir live
in 1991 i had maybe the most profound and transformative experience of my life .
i was in the third year of my seven-year undergraduate degree .
i took a couple victory laps in there .
and i was on a college choir tour up in northern california , and we had stopped for the day after all day on the bus , and we were relaxing next to this beautiful idyllic lake in the mountains .
and there were crickets and birds and frogs making noise , and as we sat there , over the mountains coming in
from the north were these steven spielbergian clouds rolling toward us , and as the clouds got about halfway over the valley , so help me god , every single animal in that place stopped making noise at the same time .
this electric hush , as if they could sense what was about to happen .
and then the clouds came over us , and then , boom ! this massive thunderclap , and sheets of rain .
it was just extraordinary , and when i came back home i found a poem by the mexican poet octavio paz , and decided to set it to music , a piece for choir called " cloudburst , " which is the piece that we 'll perform for you in just a moment .
now fast forward to just three years ago .
and we released to youtube this , the virtual choir project , 185 singers from 12 different countries .
you can see my little video there conducting these people , alone in their dorm rooms or in their living rooms at home .
two years ago , on this very stage , we premiered virtual choir 2 , 2,052 singers from 58 different countries , this time performing a piece that i had written called " sleep . "
and then just last spring we released virtual choir 3 , " water night , " another piece that i had written , this time nearly 4,000 singers from 73 different countries .
and when i was speaking to chris about the future of virtual choir and where we might be able to take this , he challenged me to push the technology as far as we possibly could .
could we do this all in real time ?
could we have people singing together in real time ?
and with the help of skype , that is what we are going to attempt today .
now , we 'll perform " cloudburst " for you .
the first half will be performed by the live singers here on stage .
i 'm joined by singers from cal state long beach , cal state fullerton and riverside community college , some of the best amateur choirs in the country , and - -- and in the second half of the piece , the virtual choir will join us , 30 different singers from 30 different countries .
now , we 've pushed the technology as far as it can go , but there 's still less than a second of latency , but in musical terms , that 's a lifetime .
we deal in milliseconds .
so what i 've done is , i 've adapted " cloudburst " so that it embraces the latency and the performers sing into the latency instead of trying to be exactly together .
so with deep humility , and for your approval , we present " cloudburst . "
[ the rain ... ] [ eyes of shadow-water ] [ eyes of well-water ] [ eyes of dream-water . ] [ blue suns , green whirlwinds , ] [ birdbeaks of light pecking open ] [ pomegranate stars . ] [ but tell me , burnt earth , is there no water ? ] [ only blood , only dust , ] [ only naked footsteps on the thorns ? ] [ the rain awakens ... ] [ we must sleep with open eyes , ] [ we must dream with our hands , ] [ we must dream the dreams of a river seeking its course , ] [ of the sun dreaming its worlds . ] [ we must dream aloud , ] [ we must sing till the song puts forth roots , ] [ trunk , branches , birds , stars . ] [ we must find the lost word , ] [ and remember what the blood , ] [ the tides , the earth , and the body say , ] [ and return to the point of departure ... ] [ " cloudburst " octavio paz ] [ translation by lysander kemp , adapted by eric whitacre ] eric whitacre : beth . annabelle , where are you ? jacob .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / kavita _ ramdas _ radical _ women _ embracing _ tradition.html
investing in women can unlock infinite potential around the globe . but how can women walk the line between western-style empowerment and traditional culture ? kavita ramdas of the global fund for women talks about three encounters with powerful women who fight to make the world better -- while preserving the traditions that sustain them .
culture , social change , third world , women
842
kavita ramdas : radical women , embracing tradition
salaam . namaskar .
good morning .
given my ted profile , you might be expecting that i 'm going to speak to you about the latest philanthropic trends -- the one that 's currently got wall street and the world bank buzzing -- how to invest in women , how to empower them , how to save them .
not me .
i am interested in how women are saving us .
they 're saving us by redefining and re-imagining a future that defies and blurs accepted polarities , polarities we 've taken for granted for a long time , like the ones between modernity and tradition , first world and third world , oppression and opportunity .
in the midst of the daunting challenges we face as a global community , there 's something about this third way raga that is making my heart sing . what intrigues me most is how women are doing this , despite a set of paradoxes that are both frustrating and fascinating .
why is it that women are , on the one hand , viciously oppressed by cultural practices , and yet at the same time , are the preservers of cultures in most societies ?
is the hijab or the headscarf a symbol of submission or resistance ?
when so many women and girls are beaten , raped , maimed on a daily basis in the name of all kinds of causes -- honor , religion , nationality -- what allows women to replant trees , to rebuild societies , to lead radical , non-violent movements for social change ?
is it different women who are doing the preserving and the radicalizing ?
or are they one and the same ?
are we guilty , as chimamanda adichie reminded us at the ted conference in oxford , of assuming that there is a single story of women 's struggles for their rights while there are , in fact , many ?
and what , if anything , do men have to do with it ?
much of my life has been a quest to get some answers to these questions .
it 's taken me across the globe and introduced me to some amazing people .
in the process , i 've gathered a few fragments that help me shed some light on this puzzle .
among those who 've helped open my eyes to a third way are : a devout muslim in afghanistan , a group of harmonizing lesbians in croatia and a taboo breaker in liberia .
i 'm indebted to them , as i am to my parents , who for some set of misdemeanors in their last life , were blessed with three daughters in this one .
and for reasons equally unclear to me , seem to be inordinately proud of the three of us .
i was born and raised here in india , and i learned from an early age to be deeply suspicious of the aunties and uncles who would bend down , pat us on the head and then say to my parents with no problem at all , " poor things . you only have three daughters .
but you 're young , you could still try again . "
my sense of outrage about women 's rights was brought to a boil when i was about 11 .
my aunt , an incredibly articulate and brilliant woman , was widowed early .
a flock of relatives descended on her .
they took off her colorful sari .
they made her wear a white one .
they wiped her bindi off her forehead .
they broke her bangles .
her daughter , rani , a few years older than me , sat in her lap bewildered , not knowing what had happened to the confident woman she once knew as her mother .
late that night , i heard my mother begging my father , " please do something ramu . can 't you intervene ? "
and my father , in a low voice , muttering , " i 'm just the youngest brother , there 's nothing i can do .
this is tradition . "
that 's the night i learned the rules about what it means to be female in this world .
women don 't make those rules , but they define us , and they define our opportunities and our chances .
and men are affected by those rules too .
my father , who had fought in three wars , could not save his own sister from this suffering .
by 18 , under the excellent tutelage of my mother , i was therefore , as you might expect , defiantly feminist .
on the streets chanting , " [ hindi ] [ hindi ] we are the women of india .
we are not flowers , we are sparks of change . "
by the time i got to beijing in 1995 , it was clear to me , the only way to achieve gender equality was to overturn centuries of oppressive tradition .
soon after i returned from beijing , i leapt at the chance to work for this wonderful organization , founded by women , to support women 's rights organizations around the globe .
but barely six months into my new job , i met a woman who forced me to challenge all my assumptions .
her name is sakena yacoobi .
she walked into my office at a time when no one knew where afghanistan was in the united states .
she said to me , " it is not about the burka . "
she was the most determined advocate for women 's rights i had ever heard .
she told me women were running underground schools in her communities inside afghanistan , and that her organization , the afghan institute of learning , had started a school in pakistan .
she said , " the first thing anyone who is a muslim knows is that the koran requires and strongly supports literacy .
the prophet wanted every believer to be able to read the koran for themselves . "
had i heard right ?
was a women 's rights advocate invoking religion ?
but sakena defies labels .
she always wears a headscarf ,
but i 've walked alongside with her on a beach with her long hair flying in the breeze .
she starts every lecture with a prayer , but she 's a single , feisty , financially independent woman in a country where girls are married off at the age of 12 .
she is also immensely pragmatic .
" this headscarf and these clothes , " she says , " give me the freedom to do what i need to do to speak to those whose support and assistance are critical for this work .
when i had to open the school in the refugee camp , i went to see the imam .
i told him , ' i 'm a believer , and women and children in these terrible conditions need their faith to survive . ' "
she smiles slyly .
" he was flattered .
he began to come twice a week to my center because women could not go to the mosque .
and after he would leave , women and girls would stay behind .
we began with a small literacy class to read the koran , then a math class , then an english class , then computer classes .
in a few weeks , everyone in the refugee camp was in our classes . "
sakena is a teacher at a time when to educate women is a dangerous business in afghanistan .
she is on the taliban 's hit list .
i worry about her every time she travels across that country .
she shrugs when i ask her about safety .
" kavita jaan , we cannot allow ourselves to be afraid .
look at those young girls who go back to school when acid is thrown in their face . "
and i smile , and i nod , realizing i 'm watching women and girls using their own religious traditions and practices , turning them into instruments of opposition and opportunity .
their path is their own and it looks towards an afghanistan that will be different .
being different is something the women of lesbor in zagreb , croatia know all too well .
to be a lesbian , a dyke , a homosexual in most parts of the world , including right here in our country , india , is to occupy a place of immense discomfort and extreme prejudice .
in post-conflict societies like croatia , where a hyper-nationalism and religiosity have created an environment unbearable for anyone who might be considered a social outcast .
so enter a group of out dykes , young women who love the old music that once spread across that region from macedonia to bosnia , from serbia to slovenia .
these folk singers met at college at a gender studies program .
many are in their 20s , some are mothers .
many have struggled to come out to their communities ,
in families whose religious beliefs make it hard to accept that their daughters are not sick , just queer .
as leah , one of the founders of the group , says , " i like traditional music very much .
i also like rock and roll .
so lesbor , we blend the two .
i see traditional music like a kind of rebellion , in which people can really speak their voice , especially traditional songs from other parts of the former yugoslav republic .
after the war , lots of these songs were lost ,
but they are a part of our childhood and our history , and we should not forget them . " improbably , this lgbt singing choir has demonstrated how women are investing in tradition to create change , like alchemists turning discord into harmony .
their repertoire includes the croatian national anthem , a bosnian love song and serbian duets .
and , leah adds with a grin , " kavita , we especially are proud of our christmas music , because it shows we are open to religious practices even though catholic church hates us lgbt . "
their concerts draw from their own communities , yes , but also from an older generation : a generation that might be suspicious of homosexuality , but is nostalgic for its own music and the past it represents .
one father , who had initially balked at his daughter coming out in such a choir , now writes songs for them .
in the middle ages , troubadours would travel across the land singing their tales and sharing their verses :
lesbor travels through the balkans like this , singing , connecting people divided by religion , nationality and language . bosnians , croats and serbs find a rare shared space of pride in their history , and lesbor reminds them that the songs one group often claims as theirs alone really belong to them all .
yesterday , mallika sarabhai showed us that music can create a world more accepting of difference than the one we have been given .
the world layma bowie was given was a world at war .
liberia had been torn apart by civil strife for decades .
layma was not an activist , she was a mother of three .
but she was sick with worry :
she worried her son would be abducted and taken off to be a child soldier ,
she worried her daughters would be raped ,
she worried for their lives .
one night , she had a dream .
she dreamt she and thousands of other women ended the bloodshed .
the next morning at church , she asked others how they felt .
they were all tired of the fighting .
we need peace , and we need our leaders to know we will not rest until there is peace .
among layma 's friends was a policewoman who was muslim .
she promised to raise the issue with her community .
at the next friday sermon , the women who were sitting in the side room of the mosque began to share their distress at the state of affairs .
" what does it matter ? " they said , " a bullet doesn 't distinguish between a muslim and a christian . "
this small group of women , determined to bring an end to the war ,
and they chose to use their traditions to make a point :
liberian women usually wear lots of jewelry and colorful clothing .
but no , for the protest , they dressed all in white , no makeup .
as layma said , " we wore the white saying we were out for peace . "
they stood on the side of the road on which charles taylor 's motorcade passed every day .
they stood for weeks -- first just 10 , then 20 , then 50 , then hundreds of women -- wearing white , singing , dancing , saying they were out for peace .
eventually , opposing forces in liberia were pushed to hold peace talks in ghana .
the peace talks dragged on and on and on .
layma and her sisters had had enough .
with their remaining funds , they took a small group of women down to the venue of the peace talks and they surrounded the building .
in a now famous cnn clip , you can see them sitting on the ground , their arms linked .
we know this in india . it 's called a [ hindi ] .
then things get tense .
the police are called in to physically remove the women .
as the senior officer approaches with a baton , layma stands up with deliberation , reaches her arms up over her head , and begins , very slowly , to untie her headdress that covers her hair .
you can see the policeman 's face .
he looks embarrassed . he backs away .
and the next thing you know , the police have disappeared .
layma said to me later , " it 's a taboo , you know , in west africa .
if an older woman undresses in front of a man because she wants to , the man 's family is cursed . "
she said , " i don 't know if he did it because he believed , but he knew we were not going to leave .
we were not going to leave until the peace accord was signed . "
and the peace accord was signed .
and the women of liberia then mobilized in support of ellen johnson sirleaf , a woman who broke a few taboos herself becoming the first elected woman head of state in africa in years .
when she made her presidential address , she acknowledged these brave women of liberia who allowed her to win against a football star -- that 's soccer for you americans -- no less .
women like sakena and leah and layma have humbled me and changed me and made me realize that i should not be so quick to jump to assumptions of any kind .
they 've also saved me from my righteous anger by offering insights into this third way .
a filipina activist once said to me , " how do you cook a rice cake ?
with heat from the bottom and heat from the top . "
the protests , the marches , the uncompromising position that women 's rights are human rights , full stop .
that 's the heat from the bottom .
that 's malcolm x and the suffragists and gay pride parades .
but we also need the heat from the top .
and in most parts of the world , that top is still controlled by men .
so to paraphrase marx : women make change , but not in circumstances of their own choosing .
they have to negotiate .
they have to subvert tradition that once silenced them in order to give voice to new aspirations .
and they need allies from their communities . allies like the imam , allies like the father who now writes songs for a lesbian group in croatia , allies like the policeman who honored a taboo and backed away , allies like my father , who couldn 't help his sister but has helped three daughters pursue their dreams .
maybe this is because feminism , unlike almost every other social movement , is not a struggle against a distinct oppressor --
it 's not the ruling class or the occupiers or the colonizers -- it 's against a deeply held set of beliefs and assumptions that we women , far too often , hold ourselves .
and perhaps this is the ultimate gift of feminism , that the personal is in fact the political .
so that , as eleanor roosevelt said once of human rights , the same is true of gender equality : that it starts in small places , close to home .
on the streets , yes , but also in negotiations at the kitchen table and in the marital bed and in relationships between lovers and parents and sisters and friends . and then you realize that by integrating aspects of tradition and community into their struggles , women like sakena and leah and layma -- but also women like sonia gandhi here in india and michelle bachelet in chile and shirin ebadi in iran -- are doing something else .
they 're challenging the very notion of western models of development .
they are saying , we don 't have to be like you to make change .
we can wear a sari or a hijab or pants or a boubou , and we can be party leaders and presidents and human rights lawyers .
we can use our tradition to navigate change .
we can demilitarize societies and pour resources , instead , into reservoirs of genuine security .
it is in these little stories , these individual stories , that i see a radical epic being written by women around the world .
it is in these threads that are being woven into a resilient fabric that will sustain communities , that i find hope .
and if my heart is singing , it 's because in these little fragments , every now and again , you catch a glimpse of a whole , of a whole new world .
and she is definitely on her way .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / hannah _ brencher _ love _ letters _ to _ strangers.html
hannah brencher 's mother always wrote her letters . so when she felt herself bottom into depression after college , she did what felt natural -- she wrote love letters and left them for strangers to find . the act has become a global initiative , the world needs more love letters , which rushes handwritten letters to those in need of a boost .
communication , culture
1603
hannah brencher : love letters to strangers
i was one of the only kids in college who had a reason to go to the p.o. box at the end of the day , and that was mainly because my mother has never believed in email , in facebook , in texting or cell phones in general .
and so while other kids were bbm-ing their parents , i was literally waiting by the mailbox to get a letter from home to see how the weekend had gone , which was a little frustrating when grandma was in the hospital , but i was just looking for some sort of scribble , some unkempt cursive from my mother .
and so when i moved to new york city after college and got completely sucker-punched in the face by depression , i did the only thing i could think of at the time . i wrote those same kinds of letters that my mother had written me
for strangers , and tucked them all throughout the city , dozens and dozens of them . i left them everywhere ,
in cafes and in libraries , at the u.n. , everywhere .
i blogged about those letters and the days when they were necessary , and i posed a kind of crazy promise to the internet : that if you asked me for a hand-written letter , i would write you one , no questions asked .
overnight , my inbox morphed into this harbor of heartbreak -- a single mother in sacramento , a girl being bullied in rural kansas , all asking me , a 22-year-old girl who barely even knew her own coffee order , to write them a love letter and give them a reason to wait by the mailbox .
well , today i fuel a global organization that is fueled by those trips to the mailbox , fueled by the ways in which we can harness social media like never before to write and mail strangers letters when they need them most , but most of all , fueled by crates of mail like this one , my trusty mail crate , filled with the scriptings of ordinary people , strangers writing letters to other strangers not because they 're ever going to meet and laugh over a cup of coffee , but because they have found one another by way of letter-writing .
but , you know , the thing that always gets me about these letters is that most of them have been written by people that have never known themselves loved on a piece of paper .
they could not tell you about the ink of their own love letters .
they 're the ones from my generation , the ones of us that have grown up into a world where everything is paperless , and where some of our best conversations have happened upon a screen .
we have learned to diary our pain onto facebook , and we speak swiftly in 140 characters or less .
but what if it 's not about efficiency this time ?
i was on the subway yesterday with this mail crate , which is a conversation starter , let me tell you . if you ever need one , just carry one of these . and a man just stared at me , and he was like , " well , why don 't you use the internet ? "
and i thought , " well , sir , i am not a strategist , nor am i specialist . i am merely a storyteller . "
and so i could tell you about a woman whose husband has just come home from afghanistan , and she is having a hard time unearthing this thing called conversation , and so she tucks love letters throughout the house as a way to say , " come back to me .
find me when you can . "
or a girl who decides that she is going to leave love letters around her campus in dubuque , iowa , only to find her efforts ripple-effected the next day when she walks out onto the quad and finds love letters hanging from the trees , tucked in the bushes and the benches .
or the man who decides that he is going to take his life , uses facebook as a way to say goodbye to friends and family .
well , tonight he sleeps safely with a stack of letters just like this one tucked beneath his pillow , scripted by strangers who were there for him when .
these are the kinds of stories that convinced me that letter-writing will never again need to flip back her hair and talk about efficiency , because she is an art form now ,
all the parts of her , the signing , the scripting , the mailing , the doodles in the margins . the mere fact that somebody would even just sit down , pull out a piece of paper and think about someone the whole way through , with an intention that is so much harder to unearth when the browser is up and the iphone is pinging and we 've got six conversations rolling in at once , that is an art form that does not fall down to the goliath of " get faster , " no matter how many social networks we might join .
we still clutch close these letters to our chest , to the words that speak louder than loud , when we turn pages into palettes to say the things that we have needed to say , the words that we have needed to write , to sisters and brothers and even to strangers , for far too long .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / lee _ cronin _ print _ your _ own _ medicine.html
chemist lee cronin is working on a 3d printer that , instead of objects , is able to print molecules . an exciting potential long-term application : printing your own medicine using chemical inks .
chemistry , health care , medical research , medicine , science
1661
lee cronin : print your own medicine
organic chemists make molecules , very complicated molecules , by chopping up a big molecule into small molecules and reverse engineering .
and as a chemist , one of the things i wanted to ask my research group a couple of years ago is , could we make a really cool universal chemistry set ?
hello , everyone . because this is my first time at ted , i 've decided to bring along an old friend to help break the ice a bit .
yes . that 's right . this is barbie .
she 's 50 years old . and she 's looking as young as ever .
but i 'd also like to introduce you to what may be an unfamiliar face .
this is fulla . fulla is the arab world 's answer to barbie .
now , according to proponents of the clash of civilizations , barbie and fulla occupy these completely separate spheres .
they have different interests . they have divergent values .
and should they ever come in contact ...
well , i 've got to tell you , it 's just not going to be pretty .
my experience , however , in the islamic world is very different .
where i work , in the arab region , people are busy taking up western innovations and changing them into things which are neither conventionally western , nor are they traditionally islamic .
i want to show you two examples .
the first is 4shbab .
it means " for youth " and it 's a new arab tv channel .
: video clips from across the globe .
the usa .
♫ i am not afraid to stand alone ♫ ♫ i am not afraid to stand alone , if allah is by my side ♫ ♫ i am not afraid to stand alone ♫ ♫ everything will be all right ♫ ♫ i am not afraid to stand alone ♫ the arab world .
♫ she was preserved by modesty of the religion ♫ ♫ she was adorned by the light of the quran ♫ shereen el feki : 4shbab has been dubbed islamic mtv .
its creator , who is an egyptian tv producer called ahmed abu haiba , wants young people to be inspired by islam to lead better lives .
he reckons the best way to get that message across is to use the enormously popular medium of music videos .
4shbab was set up as an alternative to existing arab music channels .
and they look something like this .
that , by the way is haifa wehbe . she 's a lebanese pop star and pan-arab pin-up girl .
in the world of 4shbab , it 's not about bump and grind .
but it 's not about fire and brimstone either .
its videos are intended to show a kinder , gentler face of islam , for young people to deal with life 's challenges .
now , my second example is for a slightly younger crowd .
and it 's called " the 99 . "
now , these are the world 's first islamic superheroes .
they were created by a kuwaiti psychologist called naif al mutawa .
and his desire is to rescue islam from images of intolerance , all in a child-friendly format .
" the 99 . " the characters are meant to embody the 99 attributes of allah : justice , wisdom , mercy , among others .
so , for example , there is the character of noora .
she is meant to have the power to look inside people and see the good and bad in everyone .
another character called jami has the ability to create fantastic inventions .
now , " the 99 " is not just a comic book .
it 's now a theme park .
there is an animated series in the works .
and by this time next year , the likes of superman and wonder woman will have joined forces with " the 99 " to beat injustice wherever they find it .
" the 99 " and 4shbab are just two of many examples of this sort of islamic cross-cultural hybridization .
we 're not talking here about a clash of civilizations .
nor is it some sort of indistinguishable mash .
i like to think of it as a mesh of civilizations , in which the strands of different cultures are intertwined .
now , while 4shbab and " the 99 " may look new and shiny , there is actually a very long tradition of this .
throughout its history , islam has borrowed and adapted from other civilizations both ancient and modern .
after all , it 's the quran which encourages us to do this :
" we made you into nations and tribes so that you could learn from one another . "
and to my mind , those are pretty wise words , no matter what your creed . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / esther _ perel _ the _ secret _ to _ desire _ in _ a _ long _ term _ relationship.html
in long-term relationships , we often expect our beloved to be both best friend and erotic partner . but as esther perel argues , good < em > and < / em > committed sex draws on two conflicting needs : our need for security and our need for surprise . so how do you sustain desire ? with wit and eloquence , perel lets us in on the mystery of erotic intelligence .
culture , love , relationships , sex
1669
esther perel : the secret to desire in a long-term relationship
so , why does good sex so often fade , even for couples who continue to love each other as much as ever ?
and why does good intimacy not guarantee good sex , contrary to popular belief ?
or , the next question would be , can we want what we already have ?
that 's the million-dollar question , right ?
and why is the forbidden so erotic ?
what is it about transgression that makes desire so potent ?
and why does sex make babies , and babies spell erotic disaster in couples ?
it 's kind of the fatal erotic blow , isn 't it ?
and when you love , how does it feel ?
and when you desire , how is it different ?
these are some of the questions that are at the center of my exploration on the nature of erotic desire and its concomitant dilemmas in modern love .
so i travel the globe , and what i 'm noticing is that everywhere where romanticism has entered , there seems to be a crisis of desire .
a crisis of desire , as in owning the wanting -- desire as an expression of our individuality , of our free choice , of our preferences , of our identity -- desire that has become a central concept as part of modern love and individualistic societies .
you know , this is the first time in the history of humankind where we are trying to experience sexuality in the long term , not because we want 14 children , for which we need to have even more because many of them won 't make it , and not because it is exclusively a woman 's marital duty .
this is the first time that we want sex over time about pleasure and connection that is rooted in desire .
so what sustains desire , and why is it so difficult ?
and at the heart of sustaining desire in a committed relationship , i think is the reconciliation of two fundamental human needs .
on the one hand , our need for security , for predictability , for safety , for dependability , for reliability , for permanence -- all these anchoring , grounding experiences of our lives that we call home .
but we also have an equally strong need -- men and women -- for adventure , for novelty , for mystery , for risk , for danger , for the unknown , for the unexpected , surprise -- you get the gist -- for journey , for travel .
so reconciling our need for security and our need for adventure into one relationship , or what we today like to call a passionate marriage , used to be a contradiction in terms .
marriage was an economic institution in which you were given a partnership for life in terms of children and social status and succession and companionship .
but now we want our partner to still give us all these things , but in addition i want you to be my best friend and my trusted confidant and my passionate lover to boot , and we live twice as long .
so we come to one person , and we basically are asking them to give us what once an entire village used to provide : give me belonging , give me identity , give me continuity , but give me transcendence and mystery and awe all in one .
give me comfort , give me edge .
give me novelty , give me familiarity .
give me predictability , give me surprise .
and we think it 's a given , and toys and lingerie are going to save us with that .
so now we get to the existential reality of the story , right ?
because i think , in some way -- and i 'll come back to that -- but the crisis of desire is often a crisis of the imagination .
so why does good sex so often fade ?
what is the relationship between love and desire ?
how do they relate , and how do they conflict ?
because therein lies the mystery of eroticism .
so if there is a verb , for me , that comes with love , it 's " to have . "
and if there is a verb that comes with desire , it is " to want . "
in love , we want to have , we want to know the beloved .
we want to minimize the distance . we want to contract that gap .
we want to neutralize the tensions . we want closeness .
but in desire , we tend to not really want to go back to the places we 've already gone .
forgone conclusion does not keep our interest .
in desire , we want an other , somebody on the other side that we can go visit , that we can go spend some time with , that we can go see what goes on in their red light district .
in desire , we want a bridge to cross .
or in other words , i sometimes say , fire needs air .
desire needs space .
and when it 's said like that , it 's often quite abstract .
but then i took a question with me .
and i 've gone to more than 20 countries in the last few years with " mating in captivity , " and i asked people , when do you find yourself most drawn to your partner ?
not attracted sexually , per se , but most drawn .
and across culture , across religion , and across gender -- except for one -- there are a few answers that just keep coming back .
so the first group is : i am most drawn to my partner when she is away , when we are apart , when we reunite .
basically , when i get back in touch with my ability to imagine myself with my partner , when my imagination comes back in the picture , and when i can root it in absence and in longing , which is a major component of desire .
but then the second group is even more interesting : i am most drawn to my partner when i see him in the studio , when she is onstage , when he is in his element , when she 's doing something she 's passionate about , when i see him at a party and other people are really drawn to him , when i see her hold court .
basically , when i look at my partner radiant and confident , probably the biggest turn-on across the board .
radiant , as in self-sustaining .
i look at this person -- by the way , in desire people rarely talk about it , when we are blended into one , five centimeters from each other . i don 't know in inches how much that is .
but it 's also not when the other person is that far apart that you no longer see them .
it 's when i 'm looking at my partner from a comfortable distance , where this person that is already so familiar , so known , is momentarily once again somewhat mysterious , somewhat elusive .
and in this space between me and the other lies the erotic elan , lies that movement toward the other .
because sometimes , as proust says , mystery is not about traveling to new places , but it 's about looking with new eyes .
and so , when i see my partner on his own or her own , doing something in which they are enveloped , i look at this person and i momentarily get a shift in perception , and i stay open to the mysteries that are living right next to me .
and then , more importantly , in this description about the other or myself -- it 's the same -- what is most interesting is that there is no neediness in desire .
nobody needs anybody .
there is no caretaking in desire .
caretaking is mightily loving . it 's a powerful anti-aphrodisiac .
i have yet to see somebody who is so turned on by somebody who needs them .
wanting them is one thing . needing them is a shutdown , and women have known that forever , because anything that will bring up parenthood will usually decrease the erotic charge .
for good reasons , right ?
and then the third group of answers usually would be when i 'm surprised , when we laugh together , as somebody said to me in the office today , when he 's in his tux , so i said , you know , it 's either the tux or the cowboy boots .
but basically it 's when there is novelty .
but novelty isn 't about new positions . it isn 't a repertoire of techniques .
novelty is , what parts of you do you bring out ?
what parts of you are just being seen ?
because in some way one could say sex isn 't something you do , eh ?
sex is a place you go . it 's a space you enter inside yourself and with another , or others .
so where do you go in sex ?
what parts of you do you connect to ?
what do you seek to express there ?
is it a place for transcendence and spiritual union ?
is it a place for naughtiness and is it a place to be safely aggressive ?
is it a place where you can finally surrender and not have to take responsibility for everything ?
is it a place where you can express your infantile wishes ?
what comes out there ? it 's a language .
it isn 't just a behavior .
and it 's the poetic of that language that i 'm interested in , which is why i began to explore this concept of erotic intelligence .
you know , animals have sex .
it 's the pivot , it 's biology , it 's the natural instinct .
we are the only ones who have an erotic life , which means that it 's sexuality transformed by the human imagination .
we are the only ones who can make love for hours , have a blissful time , multiple orgasms , and touch nobody , just because we can imagine it .
we can hint at it . we don 't even have to do it .
we can experience that powerful thing called anticipation , which is a mortar to desire , the ability to imagine it , as if it 's happening , to experience it as if it 's happening , while nothing is happening and everything is happening at the same time .
so when i began to think about eroticism , i began to think about the poetics of sex , and if i look at it as an intelligence , then it 's something that you cultivate .
what are the ingredients ? imagination , playfulness , novelty , curiosity , mystery .
but the central agent is really that piece called the imagination .
but more importantly , for me to begin to understand who are the couples who have an erotic spark , what sustains desire , i had to go back to the original definition of eroticism , the mystical definition , and i went through it through a bifurcation by looking actually at trauma , which is the other side , and i looked at it looking at the community that i had grown up in , which was a community in belgium , all holocaust survivors , and in my community there were two groups : those who didn 't die , and those who came back to life .
and those who didn 't die lived often very tethered to the ground , could not experience pleasure , could not trust , because when you 're vigilant , worried , anxious , and insecure , you can 't lift your head to go and take off in space and be playful and safe and imaginative .
those who came back to life were those who understood the erotic as an antidote to death .
they knew how to keep themselves alive .
and when i began to listen to the sexlessness of the couples that i work with , i sometimes would hear people say , " i want more sex , " but generally people want better sex , and better is to reconnect with that quality of aliveness , of vibrancy , of renewal , of vitality , of eros , of energy that sex used to afford them , or that they 've hoped it would afford them .
and so i began to ask a different question .
" i shut myself off when ... " began to be the question .
" i turn off my desires when ... " which is not the same question as , " what turns me of is ... " and " you turn me off when ... " and people began to say , " i turn myself off when i feel dead inside , when i don 't like my body , when i feel old , when i haven 't had time for myself , when i haven 't had a chance to even check in with you , when i don 't perform well at work , when i feel low self esteem , when i don 't have a sense of self-worth , when i don 't feel like i have a right to want , to take , to receive pleasure . " and then i began to ask the reverse question .
" i turn myself on when ... " because most of the time , people like to ask the question , " you turn me on , what turns me on , " and i 'm out of the question . you know ?
now , if you are dead inside , the other person can do a lot of things for valentine 's .
it won 't make a dent . there is nobody at the reception desk .
so i turn myself on when , i turn my desires , i wake up when ...
now , in this paradox between love and desire , what seems to be so puzzling is that the very ingredients that nurture love -- mutuality , reciprocity , protection , worry , responsibility for the other -- are sometimes the very ingredients that stifle desire .
because desire comes with a host of feelings that are not always such favorites of love : jealousy , possessiveness , aggression , power , dominance , naughtiness , mischief .
basically most of us will get turned on at night by the very same things that we will demonstrate against during the day .
you know , the erotic mind is not very politically correct .
if everybody was fantasizing on a bed of roses , we wouldn 't be having such interesting talks about this .
but no , in our mind up there are a host of things going on that we don 't always know how to bring to the person that we love , because we think love comes with selflessness and in fact desire comes with a certain amount of selfishness in the best sense of the word : the ability to stay connected to one 's self in the presence of another .
so i want to draw that little image for you , because this need to reconcile these two sets of needs , we are born with that . our need for connection , our need for separateness , or our need for security and adventure , or our need for togetherness and for autonomy , and if you think about the little kid who sits on your lap and who is cozily nested here and very secure and comfortable , and at some point all of us need to go out into the world to discover and to explore .
that 's the beginning of desire , that exploratory needs curiosity , discovery .
and then at some point they turn around and they look at you , and if you tell them , " hey kiddo , the world 's a great place . go for it .
there 's so much fun out there , " then they can turn away and they can experience connection and separateness at the same time .
they can go off in their imagination , off in their body , off in their playfulness , all the while knowing that there 's somebody when they come back .
but if on this side there is somebody who says , " i 'm worried . i 'm anxious . i 'm depressed .
my partner hasn 't taken care of me in so long .
what 's so good out there ? don 't we have everything you need together , you and i ? " then there are a few little reactions that all of us can pretty much recognize .
some of us will come back , came back a long time ago , and that little child who comes back is the child who will forgo a part of himself in order not to lose the other .
i will lose my freedom in order not to lose connection .
and i will learn to love in a certain way that will become burdened with extra worry and extra responsibility and extra protection , and i won 't know how to leave you in order to go play , in order to go experience pleasure , in order to discover , to enter inside myself .
translate this into adult language .
it starts very young . it continues into our sex lives up to the end .
child number two comes back but looks like that over their shoulder all the time .
" are you going to be there ?
are you going to curse me ? are you going to scold me ?
are you going to be angry with me ? " and they may be gone , but they 're never really away , and those are often the people that will tell you , in the beginning it was super hot .
because in the beginning , the growing intimacy wasn 't yet so strong that it actually led to the decrease of desire .
the more connected i became , the more responsible i felt , the less i was able to let go in your presence .
the third child doesn 't really come back .
so what happens , if you want to sustain desire , it 's that real dialectic piece .
on the one hand you want the security in order to be able to go .
on the other hand if you can 't go , you can 't have pleasure , you can 't culminate , you don 't have an orgasm , you don 't get excited because you spend your time in the body and the head of the other and not in your own .
so in this dilemma about reconciling these two sets of fundamental needs , there are a few things that i 've come to understand erotic couples do .
one , they have a lot of sexual privacy .
they understand that there is an erotic space that belongs to each of them .
they also understand that foreplay is not something you do five minutes before the real thing .
foreplay pretty much starts at the end of the previous orgasm .
they also understand that an erotic space isn 't about , you begin to stroke the other .
it 's about you create a space where you leave management inc . , maybe where you leave the agile program , and you actually just enter that place where you stop being the good citizen who is taking care of things and being responsible .
responsibility and desire just butt heads .
they don 't really do well together .
erotic couples also understand that passion waxes and wanes .
it 's pretty much like the moon . it has intermittent eclipses .
but what they know is they know how to resurrect it .
they know how to bring it back , and they know how to bring it back because they have demystified one big myth , which is the myth of spontaneity , which is that it 's just going to fall from heaven while you 're folding the laundry like a deus ex machina , and in fact they understood that whatever is going to just happen in a long-term relationship already has .
committed sex is premeditated sex .
it 's willful . it 's intentional .
it 's focus and presence .
merry valentine 's .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / david _ byrne _ how _ architecture _ helped _ music _ evolve.html
as his career grew , david byrne went from playing cbgb to carnegie hall . he asks : does the venue make the music ? from outdoor drumming to wagnerian operas to arena rock , he explores how context has pushed musical innovation .
architecture , arts , future , history , music
883
david byrne : how architecture helped music evolve
this is the venue where , as a young man , some of the music that i wrote was first performed .
it was , remarkably , a pretty good sounding room .
with all the uneven walls and all the crap everywhere , it actually sounded pretty good .
this is a song that was recorded there .
this is not talking heads , in the picture anyway .
" by talking heads ) so the nature of the room meant that words could be understood .
the lyrics of the songs could be pretty much understood .
the sound system was kind of decent .
and there wasn 't a lot of reverberation in the room .
so the rhythms could be pretty intact too , pretty concise .
other places around the country had similar rooms .
this is tootsie 's orchid lounge in nashville .
the music was in some ways different , but in structure and form , very much the same .
the clientele behavior was very much the same too .
and so the bands at tootsie 's or at cbgb 's had to play loud enough -- the volume had to be loud enough to overcome people falling down , shouting out and doing whatever else they were doing .
since then , i 've played other places that are much nicer .
i 've played the disney hall here and carnegie hall and places like that .
and it 's been very exciting .
but i also noticed that sometimes the music that i had written , or was writing at the time , didn 't sound all that great in some of those halls .
we managed , but sometimes those halls didn 't seem exactly suited to the music i was making or had made .
so i asked myself : do i write stuff for specific rooms ?
do i have a place , a venue , in mind when i write ?
is that a kind of model for creativity ?
do we all make things with a venue , a context , in mind ?
okay , africa .
most of the popular music that we know now has a big part of its roots in west africa .
and the music there , i would say , the instruments , the intricate rhythms , the way it 's played , the setting , the context , it 's all perfect . it all works perfect .
the music works perfectly in that setting .
there 's no big room to create reverberation and confuse the rhythms .
the instruments are loud enough that they can be heard without amplification , etc . , etc .
it 's no accident .
it 's perfect for that particular context .
and it would be a mess in a context like this . this is a gothic cathedral .
in a gothic cathedral , this kind of music is perfect .
it doesn 't change key , the notes are long ,
there 's almost no rhythm whatsoever ,
and the room flatters the music .
it actually improves it .
this is the room that bach wrote some of his music for . this is the organ .
it 's not as big as a gothic cathedral , so he can write things that are a little bit more intricate .
he can , very innovatively , actually change keys without risking huge dissonances .
this is a little bit later .
this is the kind of rooms that mozart wrote in .
i think we 're in like 1770 , somewhere around there .
they 're smaller , even less reverberant , so he can write really frilly music that 's very intricate -- and it works .
it fits the room perfectly .
this is la scala .
it 's around the same time ,
i think it was built around 1776 .
people in the audience in these opera houses , when they were built , they used to yell out to one another .
they used to eat , drink and yell out to people on the stage , just like they do at cbgb 's and places like that .
if they liked an aria , they would holler and suggest that it be done again as an encore , not at the end of the show , but immediately .
and well , that was an opera experience .
this is the opera house that wagner built for himself .
and the size of the room is not that big .
it 's smaller than this .
but wagner made an innovation . he wanted a bigger band .
he wanted a little more bombast ,
so he increased the size of the orchestra pit so he could get more low-end instruments in there .
okay . this is carnegie hall .
obviously , this kind of thing became popular .
the halls got bigger . carnegie hall 's fair-sized .
it 's larger than some of the other symphony halls .
and they 're a lot more reverberant than la scala .
around the same , according to alex ross who writes for the new yorker , this kind of rule came into effect that audiences had to be quiet --
no more eating , drinking and yelling at the stage , or gossiping with one another during the show .
they had to be very quiet .
so those two things combined meant that a different kind of music worked best in these kind of halls .
it meant that there could be extreme dynamics , which there weren 't in some of these other kinds of music .
quiet parts could be heard that would have been drowned out by all the gossiping and shouting .
but because of the reverberation in those rooms like carnegie hall , the music had to be maybe a little less rhythmic and a little more textural .
this is mahler .
it looks like bob dylan , but it 's mahler .
that was bob 's last record , yeah .
popular music , coming along at the same time .
this is a jazz band .
according to scott joplin , the bands were playing on riverboats and clubs .
again , it 's noisy . they 're playing for dancers .
there 's certain sections of the song -- the songs had different sections that the dancers really liked . and they 'd say , " play that part again . "
well , there 's only so many times you can play the same section of a song over and over again for the dancers .
so the bands started to improvise new melodies .
and a new form of music was born .
these are played mainly in small rooms .
people are dancing , shouting and drinking .
so the music has to be loud enough to be heard above that .
same thing goes true for -- that 's the beginning of the century -- for the whole of 20th-century popular music , whether it 's rock or latin music or whatever .
[ live music ] doesn 't really change that much .
it changes about a third of the way into the 20th century , when this became one of the primary venues for music .
and this was one way that the music got there .
microphones enabled singers , in particular , and musicians and composers , to completely change the kind of music that they were writing .
so far , a lot of the stuff that was on the radio was live music , but singers , like frank sinatra , could use the mic and do things that they could never do without a microphone .
other singers after him went even further .
this is chet baker .
and this kind of thing would have been impossible without a microphone .
it would have been impossible without recorded music as well .
and he 's singing right into your ear .
he 's whispering into your ears .
the effect is just electric .
it 's like the guy is sitting next to you , whispering who knows what into your ear .
so at this point , music diverged .
there 's live music , and there 's recorded music .
and they no longer have to be exactly the same .
now there 's venues like this , a discotheque , and there 's jukeboxes in bars , where you don 't even need to have a band .
there doesn 't need to be any live performing musicians whatsoever ,
and the sound systems are good .
people began to make music specifically for discos and for those sound systems .
and , as with jazz , the dancers liked certain sections more than they did others .
so the early hip-hop guys would loop certain sections .
the mc would improvise lyrics in the same way that the jazz players would improvise melodies .
and another new form of music was born .
live performance , when it was incredibly successful , ended up in what is probably , acoustically , the worst sounding venues on the planet : sports stadiums , basketball arenas and hockey arenas .
musicians who ended up there did the best they could .
they wrote what is now called arena rock , which is medium-speed ballads .
they did the best they could given that this is what they 're writing for .
the tempos are medium . it sounds big .
it 's more a social situation than a musical situation .
and in some ways , the music that they 're writing for this place works perfectly .
so there 's more new venues .
one of the new ones is the automobile .
i grew up with a radio in a car .
but now that 's evolved into something else .
the car is a whole venue .
the music that , i would say , is written for automobile sound systems works perfectly on it .
it might not be what you want to listen to at home , but it works great in the car -- has a huge frequency spectrum , you know , big bass and high-end and the voice kind of stuck in the middle .
automobile music , you can share with your friends .
there 's one other kind of new venue , the private mp3 player .
presumably , this is just for christian music .
and in some ways it 's like carnegie hall , or when the audience had to hush up ,
because you can now hear every single detail .
in other ways , it 's more like the west african music because if the music in an mp3 player gets too quiet , you turn it up , and the next minute , your ears are blasted out by a louder passage .
so that doesn 't really work .
i think pop music , mainly , it 's written today , to some extent , is written for these kind of players , for this kind of personal experience where you can hear extreme detail , but the dynamic doesn 't change that much .
so i asked myself : okay , is this a model for creation , this adaptation that we do ?
and does it happen anywhere else ?
well , according to david attenborough and some other people , birds do it too --
that the birds in the canopy , where the foliage is dense , their calls tend to be high-pitched , short and repetitive .
and the birds on the floor tend to have lower pitched calls , so that they don 't get distorted when they bounce off the forest floor .
and birds like this savannah sparrow , they tend to have a buzzing type call .
and it turns out that a sound like this is the most energy efficient and practical way to transmit their call across the fields and savannahs .
other birds , like this tanager , have adapted within the same species .
the tananger on the east coast of the united states , where the forests are a little denser , has one kind of call , and the tananger on the other side , on the west has a different kind of call .
so birds do it too .
and i thought : well , if this is a model for creation , if we make music , primarily the form at least , to fit these contexts , and if we make art to fit gallery walls or museum walls , and if we write software to fit existing operating systems , is that how it works ?
yeah . i think it 's evolutionary .
it 's adaptive .
but the pleasure and the passion and the joy is still there .
this is a reverse view of things from the kind of traditional romantic view .
the romantic view is that first comes the passion and then the outpouring of emotion , and then somehow it gets shaped into something .
and i 'm saying , well , the passion 's still there , but the vessel that it 's going to be injected into and poured into , that is instinctively and intuitively created first .
we already know where that passion is going .
but this conflict of views is kind of interesting .
the writer , thomas frank , says that this might be a kind of explanation why some voters vote against their best interests , that voters , like a lot of us , assume , that if they hear something that sounds like it 's sincere , that it 's coming from the gut , that it 's passionate , that it 's more authentic .
and they 'll vote for that .
so that , if somebody can fake sincerity , if they can fake passion , they stand a better chance of being selected in that way , which seems a little dangerous .
i 'm saying the two , the passion , the joy , are not mutually exclusive .
maybe what the world needs now is for us to realize that we are like the birds .
we adapt .
we sing .
and like the birds , the joy is still there , even though we have changed what we do to fit the context .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / billy _ graham _ on _ technology _ faith _ and _ suffering.html
speaking at ted in 1998 , rev. billy graham marvels at technology 's power to improve lives and change the world -- but says the end of evil , suffering and death will come only after the world accepts christ . a legendary talk from ted 's archives .
christianity , god , death , faith , religion , technology
308
billy graham on technology and faith
as a clergyman , you can imagine how out of place i feel .
i feel like a fish out of water , or maybe an owl out of the air .
i was preaching in san jose some time ago , and my friend mark kvamme , who helped introduce me to this conference , brought several ceos and leaders of some of the companies here in the silicon valley to have breakfast with me , or i with them .
and i was so stimulated .
and had such -- it was an eye-opening experience to hear them talk about the world that is yet to come through technology and science .
i know that we 're near the end of this conference , and some of you may be wondering why they have a speaker from the field of religion .
richard can answer that , because he made that decision .
but some years ago i was on an elevator in philadelphia , coming down .
i was to address a conference at a hotel .
and on that elevator a man said , " i hear billy graham is staying in this hotel . " and another man looked in my direction and said , " yes , there he is . he 's on this elevator with us . " and this man looked me up and down for about 10 seconds , and he said , " my , what an anticlimax ! " i hope that you won 't feel that these few moments with me is not a -- is an anticlimax , after all these tremendous talks that you 've heard , but i was on an airplane in the east some years ago , and the man sitting across the aisle from me was the mayor of charlotte , north carolina .
his name was john belk . some of you will probably know him .
and there was a drunk man on there , and he got up out of his seat two or three times , and he was making everybody upset by what he was trying to do . and he was slapping the stewardess and pinching her as she went by , and everybody was upset with him .
and finally , john belk said , " do you know who 's sitting here ? " and the man said , " no , who ? " he said , " it 's billy graham , the preacher . "
he said , " you don 't say ! " and he turned to me , and he said , " put her there ! "
he said , " your sermons have certainly helped me . " and i suppose that that 's true with thousands of people . i know that as you have been peering into the future , and as we 've heard some of it here tonight , i would like to live in that age and see what is going to be .
but i won 't , because i 'm 80 years old . this is my eightieth year , and i know that my time is brief .
i have phlebitis at the moment , in both legs , and that 's the reason that i had to have a little help in getting up here , because i have parkinson 's disease in addition to that , and some other problems that i won 't talk about .
but this is not the first time that we 've had a technological revolution .
we 've had others .
and there 's one that i want to talk about .
in one generation , the nation of the people of israel had a tremendous and dramatic change that made them a great power in the near east .
a man by the name of david came to the throne , and king david became one of the great leaders of his generation .
he was a man of tremendous leadership .
he had the favor of god with him .
he was a brilliant poet , philosopher , writer , soldier -- with strategies in battle and conflict that people study even today .
but about two centuries before david , the hittites had discovered the secret of smelting and processing of iron , and , slowly , that skill spread .
but they wouldn 't allow the israelis to look into it , or to have any .
but david changed all of that , and he introduced the iron age to israel .
and the bible says that david laid up great stores of iron , and which archaeologists have found , that in present-day palestine , there are evidences of that generation .
now , instead of crude tools made of sticks and stones , israel now had iron plows , and sickles , and hoes and military weapons .
and in the course of one generation , israel was completely changed .
the introduction of iron , in some ways , had an impact a little bit like the microchip has had on our generation .
and david found that there were many problems that technology could not solve .
there were many problems still left .
and they 're still with us , and you haven 't solved them , and i haven 't heard anybody here speak to that .
how do we solve these three problems
that i 'd like to mention ?
the first one that david saw was human evil .
where does it come from ?
how do we solve it ?
over again and again in the psalms , which gladstone said was the greatest book in the world , david describes the evils of the human race .
and yet he says , " he restores my soul . " have you ever thought about what a contradiction we are ?
on one hand , we can probe the deepest secrets of the universe and dramatically push back the frontiers of technology , as this conference vividly demonstrates .
we 've seen under the sea , three miles down , or galaxies hundreds of billions of years out in the future .
but on the other hand , something is wrong .
our battleships , our soldiers , are on a frontier now , almost ready to go to war with iraq .
now , what causes this ?
why do we have these wars in every generation , and in every part of the world ?
and revolutions ?
we can 't get along with other people , even in our own families .
we find ourselves in the paralyzing grip of self-destructive habits we can 't break .
racism and injustice and violence sweep our world , bringing a tragic harvest of heartache and death .
even the most sophisticated among us seem powerless to break this cycle .
i would like to see oracle take up that , or some other technological geniuses work on this .
how do we change man , so that he doesn 't lie and cheat , and our newspapers are not filled with stories of fraud in business or labor or athletics or wherever ?
the bible says the problem is within us , within our hearts and our souls .
our problem is that we are separated from our creator , which we call god , and we need to have our souls restored , something only god can do .
jesus said , " for out of the heart come evil thoughts : murders , sexual immorality , theft , false testimonies , slander . " the british philosopher bertrand russell was not a religious man , but he said , " it 's in our hearts that the evil lies , and it 's from our hearts that it must be plucked out . " albert einstein -- i was just talking to someone , when i was speaking at princeton , and i met mr. einstein .
he didn 't have a doctor 's degree , because he said nobody was qualified to give him one .
but he made this statement .
he said , " it 's easier to denature plutonium than to denature the evil spirit of man . " and many of you , i 'm sure , have thought about that and puzzled over it .
you 've seen people take beneficial technological advances , such as the internet we 've heard about tonight , and twist them into something corrupting .
you 've seen brilliant people devise computer viruses that bring down whole systems .
the oklahoma city bombing was simple technology , horribly used .
the problem is not technology .
the problem is the person or persons using it .
king david said that he knew the depths of his own soul .
he couldn 't free himself from personal problems and personal evils that included murder and adultery .
yet king david sought god 's forgiveness , and said , " you can restore my soul . " you see , the bible teaches that we 're more than a body and a mind .
we are a soul .
and there 's something inside of us that is beyond our understanding .
that 's the part of us that yearns for god , or something more than we find in technology .
your soul is that part of you that yearns for meaning in life , and which seeks for something beyond this life .
it 's the part of you that yearns , really , for god .
i find [ that ] young people all over the world are searching for something .
they don 't know what it is . i speak at many universities , and i have many questions and answer periods , and whether it 's cambridge , or harvard , or oxford -- i 've spoken at all of those universities .
i 'm going to harvard in about three or four -- no , it 's about two months from now -- to give a lecture .
and i 'll be asked the same questions that i was asked the last few times i 've been there .
and it 'll be on these questions : where did i come from ? why am i here ? where am i going ?
what 's life all about ? why am i here ?
even if you have no religious belief , there are times when you wonder that there 's something else .
thomas edison also said , " when you see everything that happens in the world of science , and in the working of the universe , you cannot deny that there 's a captain on the bridge . " i remember once , i sat beside mrs. gorbachev at a white house dinner .
i went to ambassador dobrynin , whom i knew very well . and i 'd been to russia several times under the communists , and they 'd given me marvelous freedom that i didn 't expect .
and i knew mr. dobrynin very well , and i said , " i 'm going to sit beside mrs. gorbachev tonight .
what shall i talk to her about ? " and he surprised me with the answer .
he said , " talk to her about religion and philosophy .
that 's what she 's really interested in . " i was a little bit surprised , but that evening that 's what we talked about , and it was a stimulating conversation . and afterward , she said , " you know , i 'm an atheist , but i know that there 's something up there higher than we are . " the second problem that king david realized he could not solve was the problem of human suffering .
writing the oldest book in the world was job , and he said , " man is born unto trouble as the sparks fly upward . " yes , to be sure , science has done much to push back certain types of human suffering .
but i 'm -- in a few months , i 'll be 80 years of age .
i admit that i 'm very grateful for all the medical advances that have kept me in relatively good health all these years .
my doctors at the mayo clinic urged me not to take this trip out here to this -- to be here .
i haven 't given a talk in nearly four months .
and when you speak as much as i do , three or four times a day , you get rusty .
that 's the reason i 'm using this podium and using these notes .
every time you ever hear me on the television or somewhere , i 'm not reading . i never read an address .
i never read a speech or a talk or a lecture .
i talk ad lib .
but tonight , i 've got some notes here so that if i begin to forget , which i do sometimes , i 've got something i can turn to .
but even here among us , most -- in the most advanced society in the world , we have poverty .
we have families that self-destruct , friends that betray us .
unbearable psychological pressures bear down on us .
i 've never met a person in the world or a worry .
why do we suffer ? it 's an age-old question that we haven 't answered .
yet david again and again said that he would turn to god .
he said , " the lord is my shepherd . " the final problem that david knew he could not solve was death .
many commentators have said that death is the forbidden subject of our generation .
most people live as if they 're never going to die .
technology projects the myth of control over our mortality .
we see people on our screens .
marilyn monroe is just as beautiful on the screen as she was in person , and our -- many young people think she 's still alive .
they don 't know that she 's dead .
or clark gable , or whoever it is .
the old stars , they come to life .
and they 're -- they 're just as great on that screen as they were in person .
but death is inevitable .
i spoke some time ago to a joint session of congress , last year .
and we were meeting in that room , the statue room . about 300 of them were there .
and i said , " there 's one thing that we have in common in this room , all of us together , whether republican or democrat , or whoever . " i said , " we 're all going to die . and we have that in common with all these great men of the past that are staring down at us . "
and it 's often difficult for young people to understand that .
it 's difficult for them to understand that they 're going to die .
as the ancient writer of ecclesiastes wrote , he said , there 's every activity under heaven .
there 's a time to be born , and there 's a time to die .
i 've stood at the deathbed of several famous people , whom you would know .
i 've talked to them .
i 've seen them in those agonizing moments when they were scared to death .
and yet , a few years earlier , death never crossed their mind .
i talked to a woman this past week whose father was a famous doctor .
she said he never thought of god , never talked about god , didn 't believe in god . he was an atheist .
but she said , as he came to die , he sat up on the side of the bed one day , and he asked the nurse if he could see the chaplain .
and he said , for the first time in his life he 'd thought about the inevitable , and about god .
was there a god ?
a few years ago , a university student asked me , " what is the greatest surprise in your life ? " and i said , " the greatest surprise in my life is the brevity of life .
it passes so fast . "
but it does not need to have to be that way .
wernher von braun , in the aftermath of world war ii concluded , quote : " science and religion are not antagonists .
on the contrary , they 're sisters . " he put it on a personal basis .
i knew dr. von braun very well .
and he said , " speaking for myself , i can only say that the grandeur of the cosmos serves only to confirm a belief in the certainty of a creator . "
he also said , " in our search to know god , i 've come to believe that the life of jesus christ should be the focus of our efforts and inspiration .
the reality of this life and his resurrection is the hope of mankind . " i 've done a lot of speaking in germany and in france , and in different parts of the world -- 105 countries it 's been my privilege to speak in .
and i was invited one day to visit chancellor adenauer , who was looked upon as sort of the founder of modern germany , since the war .
and he once -- and he said to me , he said , " young man . " he said , " do you believe in the resurrection of jesus christ ? " and i said , " sir , i do . " he said , " so do i. " he said , " when i leave office , i 'm going to spend my time writing a book on why jesus christ rose again , and why it 's so important to believe that . " in one of his plays , alexander solzhenitsyn depicts a man dying , who says to those gathered around his bed , " the moment when it 's terrible to feel regret is when one is dying . " how should one live in order not to feel regret when one is dying ?
blaise pascal asked exactly that question in seventeenth-century france .
pascal has been called the architect of modern civilization .
he was a brilliant scientist at the frontiers of mathematics , even as a teenager .
he is viewed by many as the founder of the probability theory , and a creator of the first model of a computer .
and of course , you are all familiar with the computer language named for him .
pascal explored in depth our human dilemmas of evil , suffering and death .
he was astounded at the phenomenon we 've been considering : that people can achieve extraordinary heights in science , the arts and human enterprise , yet they also are full of anger , hypocrisy and have -- and self-hatreds .
pascal saw us as a remarkable mixture of genius and self-delusion .
on november 23 , 1654 , pascal had a profound religious experience .
he wrote in his journal these words : " i submit myself , absolutely , to jesus christ , my redeemer . " a french historian said , two centuries later , " seldom has so mighty an intellect submitted with such humility to the authority of jesus christ . " pascal came to believe not only the love and the grace of god could bring us back into harmony , but he believed that his own sins and failures could be forgiven , and that when he died he would go to a place called heaven .
he experienced it in a way that went beyond scientific observation and reason .
it was he who penned the well-known words , " the heart has its reasons , which reason knows not of . " equally well known is pascal 's wager .
essentially , he said this : " if you bet on god , and open yourself to his love , you lose nothing , even if you 're wrong .
but if instead you bet that there is no god , then you can lose it all , in this life and the life to come . " for pascal , scientific knowledge paled beside the knowledge of god .
the knowledge of god was far beyond anything that ever crossed his mind .
he was ready to face him when he died at the age of 39 .
king david lived to be 70 , a long time in his era .
yet he too had to face death , and he wrote these words : " even though i walk through the valley of the shadow of death , i will fear no evil , for you are with me . " this was david 's answer to three dilemmas of evil , suffering and death .
it can be yours , as well , as you seek the living god and allow him to fill your life and give you hope for the future .
when i was 17 years of age , i was born and reared on a farm in north carolina .
i milked cows every morning , and i had to milk the same cows every evening when i came home from school . and there were 20 of them that i had -- that i was responsible for , and i worked on the farm and tried to keep up with my studies .
i didn 't make good grades in high school .
i didn 't make them in college , until something happened in my heart .
one day , i was faced face-to-face with christ .
he said , " i am the way , the truth and the life . " can you imagine that ? " i am the truth .
i 'm the embodiment of all truth . " he was a liar .
or he was insane .
or he was what he claimed to be .
which was he ?
i had to make that decision .
i couldn 't prove it .
i couldn 't take it to a laboratory and experiment with it .
but by faith i said , i believe him , and he came into my heart and changed my life .
and now i 'm ready , when i hear that call , to go into the presence of god .
thank you , and god bless all of you .
thank you for the privilege . it was great .
richard wurman : you did it .
thanks .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / suheir _ hammad _ poems _ of _ war _ peace _ women _ power.html
poet suheir hammad performs two spine-tingling spoken-word pieces : " what i will " and " break " -- meditations on war and peace , on women and power . wait for the astonishing line : " do not fear what has blown up . if you must , fear the unexploded . "
arts , culture , global issues , poetry , war , women
1068
suheir hammad : poems of war , peace , women , power
" what i will " i will not dance to your war drum .
i will not lend my soul nor my bones to your war drum .
i will not dance to that beating .
i know that beat .
it is lifeless .
i know intimately that skin you are hitting .
it was alive once , hunted , stolen , stretched .
i will not dance to your drummed-up war .
i will not pop , spin , break for you .
i will not hate for you or even hate you .
i will not kill for you .
especially i will not die for you .
i will not mourn the dead with murder nor suicide .
i will not side with you or dance to bombs because everyone is dancing .
everyone can be wrong .
life is a right , not collateral or casual .
i will not forget where i come from .
i will craft my own drum .
gather my beloved near , and our chanting will be dancing .
our humming will be drumming .
i will not be played .
i will not lend my name nor my rhythm to your beat .
i will dance and resist and dance and persist and dance .
this heartbeat is louder than death .
your war drum ain 't louder than this breath . haaa .
what 's up ted people ? let me hear you make some noise .
a bunch of pacifists .
confused , aspiring pacifists .
i understand .
i 've been wrong a lot lately .
like a lot .
so i couldn 't figure out what to read today .
i mean , i 've been saying i 've been prepping .
what that means is prepping my outfit , prepping options , trying to figure out what i 'm coming behind and going in front of .
poetry does that .
it preps you . it aims you .
so i am going to read a poem that was chosen just now .
but i 'm going to need you to just sit for like 10 minutes and hold a woman who is not here .
hold her now with you .
you don 't need to say her name out loud , you can just hold her .
are you holding her ?
this is " break clustered . " all holy history banned .
unwritten books predicted the future , projected the past .
but my head unwraps around what appears limitless , man 's creative violence .
whose son shall it be ?
which male child will perish a new day ?
our boys ' deaths galvanize .
we cherish corpses .
we mourn women , complicated .
bitches get beat daily .
profits made , prophets ignored .
war and tooth , enameled salted lemon childhoods .
all colors run , none of us solid .
don 't look for shadow behind me . i carry it within .
i live cycles of light and darkness .
rhythm is half silence .
i see now , i never was one and not the other .
sickness , health , tender violence .
i think now i never was pure .
before form i was storm , blind , ign 'ant -- still am .
human contracted itself blind , malignant .
i never was pure .
girl spoiled before ripened .
language can 't math me .
i experience exponentially .
everything is everything .
one woman loses 15 , maybe 20 , members of her family .
one woman loses six .
one woman loses her head .
one woman searches rubble . one woman feeds on trash .
one woman shoots her face . one woman shoots her husband .
one woman straps herself .
one woman gives birth to a baby .
one woman gives birth to borders .
one woman no longer believes love will ever find her .
one woman never did .
where do refugee hearts go ?
broken , dissed , placed where they 're not from , don 't want to be missed .
faced with absence .
we mourn each one or we mean nothing at all .
my spine curves spiral .
precipice running to and running from human beings .
cluster bombs left behind .
de facto landmines .
a smoldering grief .
harvest contaminated tobacco .
harvest bombs .
harvest baby teeth . harvest palms , smoke .
harvest witness , smoke .
resolutions , smoke .
salvation , smoke .
redemption , smoke .
breathe .
do not fear what has blown up .
if you must , fear the unexploded . thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / leymah _ gbowee _ unlock _ the _ intelligence _ passion _ greatness _ of _ girls.html
nobel peace prize winner leymah gbowee has two powerful stories to tell -- of her own life 's transformation , and of the untapped potential of girls around the world . can we transform the world by unlocking the greatness of girls ?
global issues , peace , social change , women
1403
leymah gbowee : unlock the intelligence , passion , greatness of girls
many times i go around the world to speak , and people ask me questions about the challenges , my moments , some of my regrets .
1998 : a single mother of four , three months after the birth of my fourth child , i went to do a job as a research assistant .
i went to northern liberia .
and as part of the work , the village would give you lodgings .
and they gave me lodging with a single mother and her daughter .
this girl happened to be the only girl in the entire village who had made it to the ninth grade .
she was the laughing stock of the community .
her mother was often told by other women , " you and your child will die poor . " after two weeks of working in that village , it was time to go back .
the mother came to me , knelt down , and said , " leymah , take my daughter .
i wish for her to be a nurse . " dirt poor , living in the home with my parents , i couldn 't afford to .
with tears in my eyes , i said , " no . " two months later , i go to another village on the same assignment and they asked me to live with the village chief .
the women 's chief of the village has this little girl , fair color like me , totally dirty .
and all day she walked around only in her underwear .
when i asked , " who is that ? "
she said , " that 's wei .
the meaning of her name is pig .
her mother died while giving birth to her , and no one had any idea who her father was . "
for two weeks , she became my companion , slept with me .
i bought her used clothes and bought her her first doll .
the night before i left , she came to the room and said , " leymah , don 't leave me here .
i wish to go with you .
i wish to go to school . " dirt poor , no money , living with my parents , i again said , " no . " two months later , both of those villages fell into another war .
till today , i have no idea where those two girls are .
fast-forward , 2004 : in the peak of our activism , the minister of gender liberia called me and said , " leymah , i have a nine-year-old for you .
i want you to bring her home because we don 't have safe homes . " the story of this little girl : she had been raped by her paternal grandfather every day for six months .
she came to me bloated , very pale .
every night i 'd come from work and lie on the cold floor .
she 'd lie beside me and say , " auntie , i wish to be well .
i wish to go to school . " 2010 : a young woman stands before president sirleaf and gives her testimony of how she and her siblings live together , their father and mother died during the war .
she 's 19 ; her dream is to go to college to be able to support them .
she 's highly athletic .
one of the things that happens is that she applies for a scholarship . full scholarship . she gets it .
her dream of going to school , her wish of being educated , is finally here .
she goes to school on the first day .
the director of sports who 's responsible for getting her into the program asks her to come out of class .
and for the next three years , her fate will be having sex with him every day , as a favor for getting her in school .
globally , we have policies , international instruments , work leaders .
great people have made commitments -- we will protect our children from want and from fear .
the u.n. has the convention on the rights of the child .
countries like america , we 've heard things like no child left behind .
other countries come with different things .
there is a millennium development called three that focuses on girls .
all of these great works by great people aimed at getting young people to where we want to get them globally , i think , has failed .
in liberia , for example , the teenage pregnancy rate is three to every 10 girls .
teen prostitution is at its peak .
in one community , we 're told , you wake up in the morning and see used condoms like used chewing gum paper .
girls as young as 12 being prostituted for less than a dollar a night .
it 's disheartening , it 's sad .
and then someone asked me , just before my tedtalk , a few days ago , " so where is the hope ? "
several years ago , a few friends of mine decided we needed to bridge the disconnect between our generation and the generation of young women .
it 's not enough to say you have two nobel laureates from the republic of liberia when your girls ' kids are totally out there and no hope , or seemingly no hope .
we created a space called the young girls transformative project .
we go into rural communities and all we do , like has been done in this room , is create the space .
when these girls sit , you unlock intelligence , you unlock passion , you unlock commitment , you unlock focus , you unlock great leaders .
today , we 've worked with over 300 .
and some of those girls who walked in the room very shy have taken bold steps , as young mothers , to go out there and advocate for the rights of other young women .
one young woman i met , teen mother of four , never thought about finishing high school , graduated successfully ; never thought about going to college , enrolled in college .
one day she said to me , " my wish is to finish college and be able to support my children . " she 's at a place where she can 't find money to go to school .
she sells water , sells soft drinks and sells recharge cards for cellphones .
and you would think she would take that money and put it back into her education .
juanita is her name .
she takes that money and finds single mothers in her community to send back to school .
says , " leymah , my wish is to be educated .
and if i can 't be educated , when i see some of my sisters being educated , my wish has been fulfilled .
i wish for a better life .
i wish for food for my children .
i wish that sexual abuse and exploitation in schools would stop . " this is the dream of the african girl .
several years ago , there was one african girl .
this girl had a son who wished for a piece of doughnut because he was extremely hungry .
angry , frustrated , really upset about the state of her society and the state of her children , this young girl started a movement , a movement of ordinary women banding together to build peace .
i will fulfill the wish .
this is another african girl 's wish .
i failed to fulfill the wish of those two girls .
i failed to do this .
these were the things that were going through the head of this other young woman -- i failed , i failed , i failed .
so i will do this .
women came out , protested a brutal dictator , fearlessly spoke .
not only did the wish of a piece of doughnut come true , the wish of peace came true .
this young woman wished also to go to school .
she went to school .
this young woman wished for other things to happen , it happened for her .
today , this young woman is me , a nobel laureate .
i 'm now on a journey to fulfill the wish , in my tiny capacity , of little african girls -- the wish of being educated .
we set up a foundation .
we 're giving full four-year scholarships to girls from villages that we see with potential .
i don 't have much to ask of you .
i 've also been to places in this u.s. , and i know that girls in this country also have wishes , a wish for a better life somewhere in the bronx , a wish for a better life somewhere in downtown l.a. , a wish for a better life somewhere in texas , a wish for a better life somewhere in new york , a wish for a better life somewhere in new jersey .
will you journey with me to help that girl , be it an african girl or an american girl or a japanese girl , fulfill her wish , fulfill her dream , achieve that dream ?
because all of these great innovators and inventors that we 've talked to and seen over the last few days are also sitting in tiny corners in different parts of the world , and all they 're asking us to do is create that space to unlock the intelligence , unlock the passion , unlock all of the great things that they hold within themselves .
let 's journey together . let 's journey together .
thank you .
chris anderson : thank you so much .
right now in liberia , what do you see as the main issue that troubles you ?
lg : i 've been asked to lead the liberian reconciliation initiative .
as part of my work , i 'm doing these tours in different villages and towns -- 13 , 15 hours on dirt roads -- and there is no community that i 've gone into that i haven 't seen intelligent girls .
but sadly , the vision of a great future , or the dream of a great future , is just a dream , because you have all of these vices .
teen pregnancy , like i said , is epidemic .
so what troubles me is that i was at that place and somehow i 'm at this place , and i just don 't want to be the only one at this place .
i 'm looking for ways for other girls to be with me .
i want to look back 20 years from now and see that there 's another liberian girl , ghanaian girl , nigerian girl , ethiopian girl standing on this ted stage .
and maybe , just maybe , saying , " because of that nobel laureate i 'm here today . " so i 'm troubled when i see them like there 's no hope .
but i 'm also not pessimistic , because i know it doesn 't take a lot to get them charged up .
ca : and in the last year , tell us one hopeful thing that you 've seen happening .
lg : i can tell you many hopeful things that i 've seen happening .
but in the last year , where president sirleaf comes from , her village , we went there to work with these girls .
and we could not find 25 girls in high school .
all of these girls went to the gold mine , and they were predominantly prostitutes doing other things .
we took 50 of those girls and we worked with them .
and this was at the beginning of elections .
this is one place where women were never -- even the older ones barely sat in the circle with the men .
these girls banded together and formed a group and launched a campaign for voter registration .
this is a real rural village .
and the theme they used was : " even pretty girls vote . "
they were able to mobilize young women .
but not only did they do that , they went to those who were running for seats to ask them , " what is it that you will give the girls of this community when you win ? " and one of the guys who already had a seat was very -- because liberia has one of the strongest rape laws , and he was one of those really fighting in parliament to overturn that law because he called it barbaric .
rape is not barbaric , but the law , he said , was barbaric .
and when the girls started engaging him , he was very hostile towards them .
these little girls turned to him and said , " we will vote you out of office . "
he 's out of office today .
ca : leymah , thank you . thank you so much for coming to ted .
lg : you 're welcome .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / nigel _ marsh _ how _ to _ make _ work _ life _ balance _ work.html
work-life balance , says nigel marsh , is too important to be left in the hands of your employer . at tedxsydney , marsh lays out an ideal day balanced between family time , personal time and productivity -- and offers some stirring encouragement to make it happen .
business , culture , work
1069
nigel marsh : how to make work-life balance work
what i thought i would do is i would start with a simple request .
i 'd like all of you to pause for a moment , you wretched weaklings , and take stock of your miserable existence .
now that was the advice that st. benedict gave his rather startled followers in the fifth century .
it was the advice that i decided to follow myself when i turned 40 .
up until that moment , i had been that classic corporate warrior -- i was eating too much , i was drinking too much , i was working too hard and i was neglecting the family .
and i decided that i would try and turn my life around .
in particular , i decided i would try to address the thorny issue of work-life balance .
so i stepped back from the workforce , and i spent a year at home with my wife and four young children .
but all i learned about work-life balance from that year was that i found it quite easy to balance work and life when i didn 't have any work .
not a very useful skill , especially when the money runs out .
so i went back to work , and i 've spent these seven years since struggling with , studying and writing about work-life balance .
and i have four observations i 'd like to share with you today .
the first is : if society 's to make any progress on this issue , we need an honest debate .
but the trouble is so many people talk so much rubbish about work-life balance .
all the discussions about flexi-time or dress-down fridays or paternity leave only serve to mask the core issue , which is that certain job and career choices are fundamentally incompatible with being meaningfully engaged on a day-to-day basis with a young family .
now the first step in solving any problem is acknowledging the reality of the situation you 're in .
and the reality of the society that we 're in is there are thousands and thousands of people out there leading lives of quiet , screaming desperation , where they work long , hard hours at jobs they hate to enable them to buy things they don 't need to impress people they don 't like .
it 's my contention that going to work on friday in jeans and [ a ] t-shirt isn 't really getting to the nub of the issue .
the second observation i 'd like to make is we need to face the truth that governments and corporations aren 't going to solve this issue for us .
we should stop looking outside . it 's up to us as individuals to take control and responsibility for the type of lives that we want to lead .
if you don 't design your life , someone else will design it for you , and you may just not like their idea of balance .
it 's particularly important -- this isn 't on the world wide web , is it ? i 'm about to get fired -- it 's particularly important that you never put the quality of your life in the hands of a commercial corporation .
now i 'm not talking here just about the bad companies -- the " abattoirs of the human soul , " as i call them .
i 'm talking about all companies .
because commercial companies are inherently designed to get as much out of you [ as ] they can get away with .
it 's in their nature ; it 's in their dna ; it 's what they do -- even the good , well-intentioned companies .
on the one hand , putting childcare facilities in the workplace is wonderful and enlightened .
on the other hand , it 's a nightmare -- it just means you spend more time at the bloody office .
we have to be responsible for setting and enforcing the boundaries that we want in our life .
the third observation is we have to be careful with the time frame that we choose upon which to judge our balance .
before i went back to work after my year at home , i sat down and i wrote out a detailed , step-by-step description of the ideal balanced day that i aspired to .
and it went like this : wake up well rested after a good night 's sleep .
have sex .
walk the dog .
have breakfast with my wife and children .
have sex again .
drive the kids to school on the way to the office .
do three hours ' work .
play a sport with a friend at lunchtime .
do another three hours ' work .
meet some mates in the pub for an early evening drink .
drive home for dinner with my wife and kids .
meditate for half an hour .
have sex .
walk the dog . have sex again .
go to bed .
how often do you think i have that day ?
we need to be realistic .
you can 't do it all in one day .
we need to elongate the time frame upon which we judge the balance in our life , but we need to elongate it without falling into the trap of the " i 'll have a life when i retire , when my kids have left home , when my wife has divorced me , my health is failing , i 've got no mates or interests left . " a day is too short ; " after i retire " is too long .
there 's got to be a middle way .
a fourth observation : we need to approach balance in a balanced way .
a friend came to see me last year -- and she doesn 't mind me telling this story -- a friend came to see me last year and said , " nigel , i 've read your book .
and i realize that my life is completely out of balance .
it 's totally dominated by work .
i work 10 hours a day ; i commute two hours a day .
all of my relationships have failed .
there 's nothing in my life apart from my work .
so i 've decided to get a grip and sort it out .
so i joined a gym . " now i don 't mean to mock , but being a fit 10-hour-a-day office rat isn 't more balanced ; it 's more fit .
lovely though physical exercise may be , there are other parts to life --
there 's the intellectual side ; there 's the emotional side ; there 's the spiritual side .
and to be balanced , i believe we have to attend to all of those areas -- not just do 50 stomach crunches .
now that can be daunting .
because people say , " bloody hell mate , i haven 't got time to get fit . you want me to go to church and call my mother . " and i understand .
i truly understand how that can be daunting .
but an incident that happened a couple of years ago gave me a new perspective .
my wife , who is somewhere in the audience today , called me up at the office and said , " nigel , you need to pick our youngest son " -- harry -- " up from school . " because she had to be somewhere else with the other three children for that evening .
so i left work an hour early that afternoon and picked harry up at the school gates .
we walked down to the local park , messed around on the swings , played some silly games .
i then walked him up the hill to the local cafe , and we shared a pizza for two , then walked down the hill to our home , and i gave him his bath and put him in his batman pajamas .
i then read him a chapter of roald dahl 's " james and the giant peach . "
i then put him to bed , tucked him in , gave him a kiss on his forehead and said , " goodnight , mate , " and walked out of his bedroom .
as i was walking out of his bedroom , he said , " dad ? " i went , " yes , mate ? " he went , " dad , this has been the best day of my life , ever . " i hadn 't done anything , hadn 't taken him to disney world or bought him a playstation .
now my point is the small things matter .
being more balanced doesn 't mean dramatic upheaval in your life .
with the smallest investment in the right places , you can radically transform the quality of your relationships and the quality of your life .
moreover , i think , it can transform society .
because if enough people do it , we can change society 's definition of success away from the moronically simplistic notion that the person with the most money when he dies wins , to a more thoughtful and balanced definition of what a life well lived looks like .
and that , i think , is an idea worth spreading .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / majora _ carter _ s _ tale _ of _ urban _ renewal.html
in an emotionally charged talk , macarthur-winning activist majora carter details her fight for environmental justice in the south bronx -- and shows how minority neighborhoods suffer most from flawed urban policy .
featured , macarthur grant , new york , activism , business , cities , environment , green , politics , pollution
53
majora carter : greening the ghetto
if you 're here today -- and i 'm very happy that you are -- you 've all heard about how sustainable development will save us from ourselves . however , when we 're not at ted , we are often told that a real sustainability policy agenda is just not feasible ,
especially in large , urban areas like new york city .
and that 's because most people with decision-making powers , in both the public and the private sector , really don 't feel as though they 're in danger .
the reason why i 'm here today , in part , is because of a dog : an abandoned puppy i found back in the rain , back in 1998 .
she turned out to be a much bigger dog than i 'd anticipated .
when she came into my life , we were fighting against a huge waste facility planned for the east river waterfront , despite the fact that our small part of new york city already handled more than 40 percent of the entire city 's commercial waste :
a sewage treatment pelletizing plant , a sewage sludge plant , four power plants , the world 's largest food distribution center , as well as other industries that bring more than 60,000 diesel truck trips to the area each week . the area also has one of the lowest ratios of parks to people in the city .
so when i was contacted by the parks department about a $ 10,000 seed grant initiative seed grant initiative to help develop waterfront projects , i thought they were really well-meaning , but a bit naive .
i 'd lived in this area all my life , and you could not get to the river because of all the lovely facilities that i 'd mentioned earlier . then , while jogging with my dog one morning , she pulled me into what i thought was just another illegal dump .
there were weeds and piles of garbage and other stuff that i won 't mention here , but she kept dragging me -- and lo and behold , at the end of that lot was the river .
i knew that this forgotten little street-end , abandoned like the dog that brought me there , was worth saving .
and i knew it would grow to become the proud beginnings of the community-led revitalization of the new south bronx .
and just like my new dog , it was an idea that got bigger than i 'd imagined . we garnered much support along the way .
and the hunts point riverside park became the first waterfront park that the south bronx had had in more than 60 years .
we leveraged that $ 10,000 seed grant more than 300 times into a $ 3 million park .
and , in the fall , i 'm actually going to -- i exchange marriage vows with my beloved . thank you very much .
that 's him pressing my buttons back there , which he does all the time .
but those of us living in environmental justice communities are the canary in the coalmine . we feel the problems right now , and have for some time .
environmental justice , for those of you who may not be familiar with the term , goes something like this : no community should be saddled with more environmental burdens and less environmental benefits than any other .
unfortunately , race and class are extremely reliable indicators as to where one might find the good stuff , like parks and trees , and where one might find the bad stuff , like power plants and waste facilities .
as a black person in america , i am twice as likely as a white person to live in an area where air pollution poses the greatest risk to my health .
i am five times more likely to live within walking distance of a power plant or chemical facility -- which i do .
these land-use decisions created the hostile conditions that lead to problems like obesity , diabetes and asthma .
why would someone leave their home to go for a brisk walk in a toxic neighborhood ?
our 27 percent obesity rate is high , even for this country , and diabetes comes with it .
one out of four south bronx children has asthma .
our asthma hospitalization rate is seven times higher than the national average .
these impacts are coming everyone 's way .
and we all pay dearly for solid waste costs , health problems associated with pollution and more odiously , the cost of imprisoning our young black and latino men , who possess untold amounts of untapped potential .
50 percent of our residents live at or below the poverty line .
25 percent of us are unemployed . low-income citizens often use emergency room visits as primary care .
this comes at a high cost to taxpayers and produces no proportional benefits .
poor people are not only still poor ; they are still unhealthy .
fortunately , there are many people like me who are striving for solutions that won 't compromise the lives of low-income communities of color in the short term , and won 't destroy us all in the long term .
none of us want that , and we all have that in common . so what else do we have in common ?
well , first of all , we 're all incredibly good-looking -- -- graduated high school , college , post-graduate degrees , traveled to interesting places , didn 't have kids in your early teens ,
financially stable , never been imprisoned . ok .
good .
but , besides being a black woman , i am different from most of you in some other ways .
i watched nearly half of the buildings in my neighborhood burn down .
my big brother lenny fought in vietnam , only to be gunned down a few blocks from our home .
jesus . i grew up with a crack house across the street .
yeah , i 'm a poor black child from the ghetto .
these things make me different from you .
but the things we have in common set me apart from most of the people in my community , and i am in between these two worlds , with enough of my heart to fight for justice in the other .
so how did things get so different for us ?
in the late ' 40s , my dad -- a pullman porter , son of a slave -- bought a house in the hunts point section of the south bronx , and a few years later he married my mom .
at the time , the community was a mostly white , working-class neighborhood .
my dad was not alone .
and as others like him pursued their own version of the american dream , white flight became common in the south bronx and in many cities around the country .
red-lining was used by banks , wherein certain sections of the city , including ours , were deemed off-limits to any sort of investment .
many landlords believed it was more profitable to torch their buildings and collect insurance money rather than to sell under those conditions -- dead or injured former tenants notwithstanding .
hunts point was formerly a walk-to-work community , but now residents had neither work nor home to walk to .
a national highway construction boom was added to our problems .
in new york state , robert moses spearheaded an aggressive highway expansion campaign .
one of its primary goals was to make it easier for residents of wealthy communities in westchester county to go to manhattan .
the south bronx , which lies in between , did not stand a chance .
residents were often given less than a month 's notice before their buildings were razed .
600,000 people were displaced .
the common perception was that only pimps and pushers and prostitutes were from the south bronx .
and if you are told from your earliest days that nothing good is going to come from your community , that is bad and ugly , how could it not reflect on you ?
so now , my family 's property was worthless , save for that it was our home and all we had .
and luckily for me , that home and the love inside of it , along with help from teachers , mentors and friends along the way , was enough .
now , why is this story important ?
because from a planning perspective , economic degradation begets environmental degradation , which begets social degradation .
the disinvestment that began in the 1960s set the stage for all the environmental injustices that were to come .
antiquated zoning and land-use regulations are still used to this day to continue putting polluting facilities in my neighborhood .
are these factors taken into consideration when land-use policy is decided ?
what costs are associated with these decisions ? and who pays ?
who profits ? does anything justify what the local community goes through ?
this was " planning " -- in quotes -- that did not have our best interests in mind .
once we realized that , we decided it was time to do our own planning .
that small park i told you about earlier was the first stage of building a greenway movement in the south bronx .
i wrote a one-and-a-quarter-million dollar federal transportation grant to design the plan for a waterfront esplanade with dedicated on-street bike paths .
physical improvements help inform public policy regarding traffic safety , the placement of the waste and other facilities , which , if done properly , don 't compromise a community 's quality of life .
they provide opportunities to be more physically active , as well as local economic development .
think bike shops , juice stands .
we secured 20 million dollars to build first-phase projects .
this is lafayette avenue -- and as redesigned by matthews-nielsen landscape architects .
and once this path is constructed , it 'll connect the south bronx with more than 400 acres of randall 's island park .
right now we 're separated by about 25 feet of water , but this link will change that .
as we nurture the natural environment , its abundance will give us back even more .
we run a project called the bronx ecological stewardship training , which provides job training in the fields of ecological restorations , so that folks from our community have the skills to compete for these well-paying jobs .
little by little , we 're seeding the area with green collar jobs -- then the people that have both a financial and personal stake in their environment .
the sheridan expressway is an underutilized relic of the robert moses era , built with no regard for the neighborhoods that were divided by it .
even during rush hour , it goes virtually unused .
the community created an alternative transportation plan that allows for the removal of the highway .
we have the opportunity now to bring together all the stakeholders to re-envision how this 28 acres can be better utilized for parkland , affordable housing and local economic development .
we also built the city 's -- new york city 's first green and cool roof demonstration project on top of our offices .
cool roofs are highly reflective surfaces that don 't absorb solar heat and pass it on to the building or atmosphere .
green roofs are soil and living plants .
both can be used instead of petroleum-based roofing materials that absorb heat , contribute to urban " heat island " effect and degrade under the sun , which we in turn breathe . green roofs also retain up to 75 percent of rainfall , so they reduce a city 's need to fund costly end-of-pipe solutions -- which , incidentally , are often located in environmental justice communities like mine .
and they provide habitats for our little friends !
so -- -- so cool !
anyway , the demonstration project is a springboard for our own green roof installation business , bringing jobs and sustainable economic activity to the south bronx .
i like that , too .
anyway , i know chris told us not to do pitches up here , but since i have all of your attention : we need investors . end of pitch .
it 's better to ask for forgiveness than permission .
anyway -- ok . katrina . prior to katrina , the south bronx and new orleans ' ninth ward had a lot in common . both were largely populated by poor people of color , both hotbeds of cultural innovation : think hip-hop and jazz .
both are waterfront communities that host both industries and residents in close proximity of one another .
in the post-katrina era , we have still more in common .
we 're at best ignored and maligned and abused , at worst , by negligent regulatory agencies , pernicious zoning and lax governmental accountability .
neither the destruction of the ninth ward nor the south bronx was inevitable .
but we have emerged with valuable lessons about how to dig ourselves out .
we are more than simply national symbols of urban blight . or problems to be solved by empty campaign promises of presidents come and gone .
now will we let the gulf coast languish for a decade or two like the south bronx did ?
or will we take proactive steps and learn from the homegrown resource of grassroots activists that have been born of desperation in communities like mine ?
now listen , i do not expect individuals , corporations or government to make the world a better place because it is right or moral .
this presentation today only represents some of what i 've been through , like a tiny little bit . you 've no clue .
but i 'll tell you later if you want to know .
but -- i know it 's the bottom line , or one 's perception of it , that motivates people in the end .
i 'm interested in what i like to call the " triple bottom line " that sustainable development can produce .
developments that have the potential to create positive returns for all concerned : the developers , government and the community where these projects go up .
at present , that 's not happening in new york city .
and we are operating with a comprehensive urban planning deficit .
a parade of government subsidies is going to proposed big-box and stadium developments in the south bronx , but there is scant coordination between city agencies on how to deal with the cumulative effects of increased traffic , pollution , solid waste and the impacts on open space . and their approaches to local economic and job development are so lame it 's not even funny .
because on top of that , the world 's richest sports team is replacing the house that ruth built by destroying two well-loved community parks .
now , we 'll have even less than that stat i told you about earlier .
and although less than 25 percent of south bronx residents own cars , these projects include thousands of new parking spaces , yet zip in terms of mass public transit .
now , what 's missing from the larger debate is a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis between not fixing an unhealthy , environmentally challenged community , versus incorporating structural , sustainable changes .
my agency is working closely with columbia university and others to shine a light on these issues .
now let 's get this straight . i am not anti-development .
ours is a city , not a wilderness preserve . and i 've embraced my inner capitalist .
you probably all have it , and if you haven 't , you need to .
so i don 't have a problem with developers making money .
there 's enough precedent out there to show that a sustainable , community-friendly development can still make a fortune .
fellow tedsters bill mcdonough and amory lovins -- both heroes of mine by the way -- have shown that you can actually do that .
i do have a problem with developments that hyper-exploit politically vulnerable communities for profit .
that it continues is a shame upon us all , because we are all responsible for the future that we create .
but one of the things i do to remind myself of greater possibilities is to learn from visionaries in other cities .
this is my version of globalization .
let 's take bogota . poor , latino , surrounded by runaway gun violence and drug trafficking : a reputation not unlike that of the south bronx .
however , this city was blessed in the late 1990s with a highly influential mayor named enrique penalosa .
he looked at the demographics .
few bogatanos own cars , yet a huge portion of the city 's resources was dedicated to serving them .
if you 're a mayor , you can do something about that .
his administration narrowed key municipal thoroughfares from five lanes to three , outlawed parking on those streets , expanded pedestrian walkways and bike lanes , created public plazas , created one of the most efficient bus mass-transit systems in the entire world .
for his brilliant efforts , he was nearly impeached .
but as people began to see that they were being put first on issues reflecting their day-to-day lives , incredible things happened .
people stopped littering ; crime rates dropped --
because the streets were alive with people .
his administration attacked several typical urban problems at one time , and on a third-world budget at that .
we have no excuse in this country . i 'm sorry .
but the bottom line is : their people-first agenda was not meant to penalize those who could actually afford cars , but rather to provide opportunities for all bogatanos to participate in the city 's resurgence . that development should not come at the expense of the majority of the population is still considered a radical idea here in the us .
but bogota 's example has the power to change that . you , however , are blessed with the gift of influence .
that 's why you 're here and why you value the information we exchange .
use your influence in support of comprehensive sustainable change everywhere .
don 't just talk about it at ted . this is a nationwide policy agenda i 'm trying to build , and as you all know , politics are personal .
help me make green the new black . help me make sustainability sexy .
make it a part of your dinner and cocktail conversations .
help me fight for environmental and economic justice .
support investments with a triple-bottom-line return .
help me democratize sustainability by bringing everyone to the table and insisting that comprehensive planning can be addressed everywhere .
oh good , glad i have a little more time !
listen -- when i spoke to mr. gore the other day after breakfast , i asked him how environmental justice activists were going to be included in his new marketing strategy .
his response was a grant program .
i don 't think he understood that i wasn 't asking for funding .
i was making him an offer .
what troubled me was that this top-down approach is still around .
now , don 't get me wrong , we need money .
but grassroots groups are needed at the table during the decision-making process .
of the 90 percent of the energy that mr. gore reminded us that we waste every day , don 't add wasting our energy , intelligence and hard-earned experience to that count .
i have come from so far to meet you like this .
please don 't waste me . by working together , we can become one of those small , rapidly growing groups of individuals who actually have the audacity and courage to believe that we actually can change the world .
we might have come to this conference from very , very different stations in life , but believe me , we all share one incredibly powerful thing : we have nothing to lose and everything to gain .
ciao bellos !
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / hans _ rosling _ reveals _ new _ insights _ on _ poverty.html
researcher hans rosling uses his cool data tools to show how countries are pulling themselves out of poverty . he demos dollar street , comparing households of varying income levels worldwide . then he does something really amazing .
africa , asia , google , development , economics , global issues , health , statistics , visualizations
140
hans rosling 's new insights on poverty
i told you three things last year .
i told you that the statistics of the world have not been made properly available .
because of that , we still have the old mindset of developing in industrialized countries , which is wrong .
and that animated graphics can make a difference .
things are changing
and today , on the united nations statistic division home page , it says , by first of may , full access to the databases .
and if i could share the image with you on the screen .
so three things have happened .
u.n. opened their statistic databases , and we have a new version of the software up working as a beta on the net , so you don 't have to download it any longer . and let me repeat what you saw last year .
the bubbles are the countries .
here you have the fertility rate -- the number of children per woman -- and there you have the length of life in years .
this is 1950 -- those were the industrialized countries , those were developing countries .
at that time there was a " we " and " them . "
there was a huge difference in the world .
but then it changed , and it went on quite well .
and this is what happens .
you can see how china is the red , big bubble . the blue there is india .
a little more serious this year in showing you how things really changed .
and it 's africa that stands out as the problem down here , doesn 't it ?
large families still , and the hiv epidemic brought down the countries like this .
this is more or less what we saw last year , and this is how it will go on into the future .
and i will talk on , is this possible ?
because you see now , i presented statistics that don 't exist .
because this is where we are .
will it be possible that this will happen ?
i cover my lifetime here , you know ?
i expect to live 100 years .
and this is where we are today .
now could we look here instead at the economic situation in the world ?
and i would like to show that against child survival .
we 'll swap the axis . here you have child mortality -- that is , survival -- four kids dying there , 200 dying there .
and this is gdp per capita on this axis .
and this was 2007 .
and if i go back in time , i 've added some historical statistics -- here we go , here we go , here we go -- not so much statistics 100 years ago .
some countries still had statistics .
we are looking down in the archive , and when we are down into 1820 , there is only austria and sweden that can produce numbers .
but they were down here . they had 1,000 dollars per person per year .
and they lost one-fifth of their kids before their first birthday .
so this is what happens in the world , if we play the entire world . how they got slowly richer and richer , and they add statistics .
isn 't it beautiful when they get statistics ?
you see the importance of that ?
and here , children don 't live longer .
the last century , 1870 , was bad for the kids in europe , because most of this statistics is europe .
it was only by the turn of the century that more than 90 percent of the children survived their first year .
this is india coming up , with the first data from india .
and this is the united states moving away here , earning more money .
and we will soon see china coming up in the very far end corner here .
and it moves up with mao tse-tung getting health , not getting so rich .
there he died , then deng xiaoping brings money . it moves this way over here .
and the bubbles keep moving up there , and this is what the world looks like today .
let us have a look at the united states .
we have a function here -- i can tell the world , " stay where you are . " and i take the united states -- we still want to see the background -- i put them up like this , and now we go backwards .
and we can see that the united states goes to the right of the mainstream .
they are on the money side all the time .
and down in 1915 , the united states was a neighbor of india -- present , contemporary india .
and that means united states was richer , but lost more kids than india is doing today , proportionally .
and look here -- compare to the philippines of today .
the philippines of today has almost the same economy as the united states during the first world war .
but we have to bring united states forward quite a while to find the same health of the united states as we have in the philippines .
about 1957 here , the health of the united states is the same as the philippines .
and this is the drama of this world which many call globalized , is that asia , arabic countries , latin america , are much more ahead in being healthy , educated , having human resources than they are economically .
there 's a discrepancy in what 's happening today in the emerging economies .
there now , social benefits , social progress , are going ahead of economical progress .
and 1957 -- the united states had the same economy as chile has today .
and how long do we have to bring united states to get the same health as chile has today ?
i think we have to go , there -- we have 2001 , or 2002 -- the united states has the same health as chile .
chile 's catching up !
within some years chile may have better child survival than the united states .
this is really a change , that you have this lag of more or less 30 , 40 years ' difference on the health .
and behind the health is the educational level .
and there 's a lot of infrastructure things , and general human resources are there .
now we can take away this -- and i would like to show you the rate of speed , the rate of change , how fast they have gone .
and we go back to 1920 , and i want to look at japan .
and i want to look at sweden and the united states .
and i 'm going to stage a race here between this sort of yellowish ford here and the red toyota down there , and the brownish volvo . and here we go . here we go .
the toyota has a very bad start down here , you can see , and the united states ford is going off-road there .
and the volvo is doing quite fine .
this is the war . the toyota got off track , and now the toyota is coming on the healthier side of sweden -- can you see that ?
and they are taking over sweden , and they are now healthier than sweden .
that 's the part where i sold the volvo and bought the toyota .
and now we can see that the rate of change was enormous in japan .
they really caught up .
and this changes gradually .
we have to look over generations to understand it .
and let me show you my own sort of family history -- we made these graphs here .
and this is the same thing , money down there , and health , you know ?
and this is my family .
this is sweden , 1830 , when my great-great-grandma was born .
sweden was like sierra leone today .
and this is when great-grandma was born , 1863 .
and sweden was like mozambique .
and this is when my grandma was born , 1891 .
she took care of me as a child , so i 'm not talking about statistic now -- now it 's oral history in my family .
that 's when i believe statistics , when it 's grandma-verified statistics .
i think it 's the best way of verifying historical statistics .
sweden was like ghana .
it 's interesting to see the enormous diversity within sub-saharan africa .
i told you last year , i 'll tell you again , my mother was born in egypt , and i -- who am i ?
i 'm the mexican in the family .
and my daughter , she was born in chile , and the grand-daughter was born in singapore , now the healthiest country on this earth .
it bypassed sweden about two to three years ago , with better child survival .
but they 're very small , you know ?
they 're so close to the hospital we can never beat them out in these forests .
but homage to singapore .
singapore is the best one .
now this looks also like a very good story .
but it 's not really that easy , that it 's all a good story .
because i have to show you one of the other facilities .
we can also make the color here represent the variable -- and what am i choosing here ?
carbon-dioxide emission , metric ton per capita .
this is 1962 , and united states was emitting 16 tons per person .
and china was emitting 0.6 , and india was emitting 0.32 tons per capita .
and what happens when we moved on ?
well , you see the nice story of getting richer and getting healthier --
everyone did it at the cost of emission of carbon dioxide .
there is no one who has done it so far .
and we don 't have all the updated data any longer , because this is really hot data today .
and there we are , 2001 .
and in the discussion i attended with global leaders , you know , many say now the problem is that the emerging economies , they are getting out too much carbon dioxide .
the minister of the environment of india said , " well , you were the one who caused the problem . "
the oecd countries -- the high-income countries -- they were the ones who caused the climate change .
" but we forgive you , because you didn 't know it .
but from now on , we count per capita .
from now on we count per capita .
and everyone is responsible for the per capita emission . " this really shows you , we have not seen good economic and health progress anywhere in the world without destroying the climate .
and this is really what has to be changed .
i 've been criticized for showing you a too positive image of the world , but i don 't think it 's like this .
the world is quite a messy place .
this we can call dollar street .
everyone lives on this street here .
what they earn here -- what number they live on -- is how much they earn per day .
this family earns about one dollar per day .
we drive up the street here , we find a family here which earns about two to three dollars a day .
and we drive away here -- we find the first garden in the street , and they earn 10 to 50 dollars a day .
and how do they live ?
if we look at the bed here , we can see that they sleep on a rug on the floor .
this is what poverty line is -- 80 percent of the family income is just to cover the energy needs , the food for the day .
this is two to five dollars . you have a bed .
and here it 's a much nicer bedroom , you can see .
i lectured on this for ikea , and they wanted to see the sofa immediately here .
and this is the sofa , how it will emerge from there .
and the interesting thing , when you go around here in the photo panorama , you see the family still sitting on the floor there . although there is a sofa ,
if you watch in the kitchen , you can see that the great difference for women does not come between one to 10 dollars .
it comes beyond here , when you really can get good working conditions in the family .
and if you really want to see the difference , you look at the toilet over here .
this can change . this can change .
these are all pictures and images from africa , and it can become much better .
we can get out of poverty .
my own research has not been in it or anything like this .
i spent 20 years in interviews with african farmers who were on the verge of famine .
and this is the result of the farmers-needs research .
the nice thing here is that you can 't see who are the researchers in this picture .
that 's when research functions in poor societies -- you must really live with the people .
when you 're in poverty , everything is about survival .
it 's about having food .
and these two young farmers , they are girls now -- because the parents are dead from hiv and aids -- they discuss with a trained agronomist .
this is one of the best agronomists in malawi , junatambe kumbira , and he 's discussing what sort of cassava they will plant -- the best converter of sunshine to food that man has found .
and they are very , very eagerly interested to get advice , and that 's to survive in poverty .
that 's one context .
getting out of poverty .
the women told us one thing . " get us technology .
we hate this mortar , to stand hours and hours .
get us a mill so that we can mill our flour , then we will be able to pay for the rest ourselves . " technology will bring you out of poverty , but there 's a need for a market to get away from poverty .
and this woman is very happy now , bringing her products to the market .
but she 's very thankful for the public investment in schooling so she can count , and won 't be cheated when she reaches the market .
she wants her kid to be healthy , so she can go to the market and doesn 't have to stay home .
and she wants the infrastructure -- it is nice with a paved road .
it 's also good with credit .
micro-credits gave her the bicycle , you know .
and information will tell her when to go to market with which product .
you can do this .
i find my experience from 20 years of africa is that the seemingly impossible is possible .
africa has not done bad .
in 50 years they 've gone from a pre-medieval situation to a very decent 100-year-ago europe , with a functioning nation and state .
i would say that sub-saharan africa has done best in the world during the last 50 years .
because we don 't consider where they came from .
it 's this stupid concept of developing countries that puts us , argentina and mozambique together 50 years ago , and says that mozambique did worse .
we have to know a little more about the world .
i have a neighbor who knows 200 types of wine .
he knows everything .
he knows the name of the grape , the temperature and everything .
i only know two types of wine -- red and white .
but my neighbor only knows two types of countries -- industrialized and developing .
and i know 200 , i know about the small data .
but you can do that .
but i have to get serious . and how do you get serious ?
you make a powerpoint , you know ?
homage to the office package , no ?
what is this , what is this , what am i telling ?
i 'm telling you that there are many dimensions of development .
everyone wants your pet thing .
if you are in the corporate sector , you love micro-credit .
if you are fighting in a non-governmental organization , you love equity between gender .
or if you are a teacher , you 'll love unesco , and so on .
on the global level , we have to have more than our own thing .
we need everything .
all these things are important for development , especially when you just get out of poverty and you should go towards welfare .
now , what we need to think about is , what is a goal for development , and what are the means for development ?
let me first grade what are the most important means .
economic growth to me , as a public-health professor , is the most important thing for development because it explains 80 percent of survival .
governance . to have a government which functions -- that 's what brought california out of the misery of 1850 .
it was the government that made law function finally .
education , human resources are important .
health is also important , but not that much as a mean .
environment is important .
human rights is also important , but it just gets one cross .
now what about goals ? where are we going toward ?
we are not interested in money .
money is not a goal .
it 's the best mean , but i give it zero as a goal .
governance , well it 's fun to vote in a little thing , but it 's not a goal .
and going to school , that 's not a goal , it 's a mean .
health i give two points . i mean it 's nice to be healthy -- at my age especially -- you can stand here , you 're healthy .
and that 's good , it gets two plusses .
environment is very , very crucial .
there 's nothing for the grandkid if you don 't save up .
but where are the important goals ?
of course , it 's human rights .
human rights is the goal , but it 's not that strong of a mean for achieving development .
and culture . culture is the most important thing , i would say , because that 's what brings joy to life .
that 's the value of living .
so the seemingly impossible is possible .
even african countries can achieve this .
and i 've shown you the shot where the seemingly impossible is possible .
and remember , please remember my main message , which is this : the seemingly impossible is possible .
we can have a good world .
i showed you the shots , i proved it in the powerpoint , and i think i will convince you also by culture .
bring me my sword !
sword swallowing is from ancient india .
it 's a cultural expression that for thousands of years has inspired human beings to think beyond the obvious .
and i will now prove to you that the seemingly impossible is possible by taking this piece of steel -- solid steel -- this is the army bayonet from the swedish army , 1850 , in the last year we had war .
and it 's all solid steel -- you can hear here .
and i 'm going to take this blade of steel , and push it down through my body of blood and flesh , and prove to you that the seemingly impossible is possible .
can i request a moment of absolute silence ?
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / chris _ bangle _ says _ great _ cars _ are _ art.html
american designer chris bangle explains his philosophy that car design is an art form in its own right , with an entertaining -- and ultimately moving -- account of the bmw group 's deep blue project , intended to create the suv of the future .
arts , business , cars , design , industrial design , invention , technology , transportation
5
chris bangle says great cars are art
what i want to talk about is , as background , is the idea that cars are art .
this is actually quite meaningful to me , because car designers tend to be a little bit low on the totem pole -- we don 't do coffee table books with just one lamp inside of it -- and cars are thought so much as a product that it 's a little bit difficult to get into the aesthetic side under the same sort of terminology that one would discuss art .
and so cars , as art , brings it into an emotional plane -- if you accept that -- that you have to deal with on the same level you would with art with a capital a .
now at this point you 're going to see a picture of michelangelo .
this is completely different than automobiles .
automobiles are self-moving things , right ? elevators are automobiles .
and they 're not very emotional ; they solve a purpose ; and certainly automobiles have been around for 100 years and have made our lives functionally a lot better in many ways ; they 've also been a real pain in the ass ,
because automobiles are really the thing we have to solve .
we have to solve the pollution , we have to solve the congestion -- but that 's not what interests me in this speech .
what interests me in this speech is cars . automobiles may be what you use , but cars are what we are , in many ways .
and as long as we can solve the problems of automobiles , and i believe we can , with fuel cells or hydrogen , like bmw is really hip on , and lots of other things , then i think we can look past that and try and understand why this hook is in many of us -- of this car-y-ness -- and what that means , what we can learn from it .
that 's what i want to get to . cars are not a suit of clothes ; cars are an avatar . cars are an expansion of yourself : they take your thoughts , your ideas , your emotions , and they multiply it -- your anger , whatever . it 's an avatar .
it 's a super-waldo that you happen to be inside of , and if you feel sexy , the car is sexy . and if you 're full of road rage , you 've got a " chevy : like a rock , " right ?
cars are a sculpture -- did you know this ?
that every car you see out there is sculpted by hand .
many people think , " well , it 's computers , and it 's done by machines and stuff like that . "
well , they reproduce it , but the originals are all done by hand .
it 's done by men and women who believe a lot in their craft .
and they put that same kind of tension into the sculpting of a car that you do in a great sculpture that you would go and look at in a museum .
that tension between the need to express , the need to discover , then you put something new into it , and at the same time you have bounds of craftsmanship .
rules that say , this is how you handle surfaces ; this is what control is all about ; this is how you show you 're a master of your craft .
and that tension , that discovery , that push for something new -- and at the same time , that sense of obligation to the regards of craftsmanship -- that 's as strong in cars as it is in anything .
we work in clay , which hasn 't changed much since michelangelo started screwing around with it , and there 's a very interesting analogy to that too .
real quickly -- michelangelo once said he 's there to " discover the figure within , " ok ?
there we go , the automobile .
that was 100 years right there -- did you catch that ?
between that one there , and that one there , it changed a lot didn 't it ?
ok , it 's not marketing ; there 's a very interesting car concept here , but the marketing part is not what i want to talk about here .
i want to talk about this .
why it means you have to wash a car , what is it , that sensuality you have to touch about it ? that 's the sculpture that goes into it . that sensuality .
and it 's done by men and women working just like this , making cars .
now this little quote about sculpture from henry moore , i believe that that " pressure within " that moore 's talking about -- at least when it comes to cars -- comes right back to this idea of the mean .
it 's that will to live , that need to survive , to express itself , that comes in a car , and takes over people like me .
and we tell other people , " do this , do this , do this , " until this thing comes alive .
we are completely infected . and beauty can be the result of this infectiousness ; it 's quite wonderful .
this sculpture is , of course , at the heart of all of it , and it 's really what puts the craftsmanship into our cars .
and it 's not a whole lot different , really , when they 're working like this , or when somebody works like this .
it 's that same kind of commitment , that same kind of beauty .
now , now i get to the point . i want to talk about cars as art .
art , in the platonic sense , is truth ; it 's beauty , and love .
now this is really where designers in car business diverge from the engineers .
we don 't really have a problem talking about love .
we don 't have a problem talking about truth or beauty in that sense .
that 's what we 're searching for -- when we 're working our craft , we are really trying to find that truth out there .
we 're not trying to find vanity and beauty .
we 're trying to find the beauty in the truth .
however , engineers tend to look at things a little bit more newtonian , instead of this quantum approach .
we 're dealing with irrationalisms , and we 're dealing with paradoxes that we admit exist , and the engineers tend to look things a little bit more like two and two is four , and if you get 4.0 it 's better , and 4.000 is even better .
and that sometimes leads to bit of a divergence in why we 're doing what we 're doing .
we 've pretty much accepted the fact , though , that we are the women in the organization at bmw -- bmw is a very manly type business , -- men , men , men ; it 's engineers .
and we 're kind of the female side to that . that 's ok , that 's cool . you go off and be manly . we 're going to be a little bit more female .
because what we 're interested in is finding form that 's more than just a function .
we 're interested in finding beauty that 's more than just an aesthetic ; it 's really a truth .
and i think this idea of soul , as being at the heart of great cars , is very applicable . you all know it . you know a car when you 've seen it , with soul . you know how strong this is .
well , this experience of love , and the experience of design , to me , are interchangeable . and now i 'm coming to my story .
i discovered something about love and design through a project called deep blue .
and first of all , you have to go with me for a second , and say , you know , you could take the word " love " out of a lot of things in our society , put the word " design " in , and it still works , like this quote here , you know . it kind of works , you know ?
you can understand that . it works in truisms .
" all is fair in design and war . "
certainly we live in a competitive society .
i think this one here , there 's a pop song that really describes philippe starck for me , you know , this is like you know , this is like puppy love , you know , this is cool right ?
toothbrush , cool .
it really only gets serious when you look at something like this . ok ?
this is one substitution that i believe all of us , in design management , are guilty of .
and this idea that there is more to love , more to design , when it gets down to your neighbor , your other , it can be physical like this , and maybe in the future it will be .
but right now it 's in dealing with our own people , our own teams who are doing the creating . so , to my story .
the idea of people-work is what we work with here , and i have to make a bond with my designers when we 're creating bmws .
we have to have a shared intimacy , a shared vision -- that means we have to work as one family ; we have to understand ourselves that way .
there 's good times ; there 's interesting times ; and there 's some stress times too .
you want to do cars , you 've got to go outside .
you 've got to do cars in the rain ; you 've got to do cars in the snow .
that 's , by the way , is a presentation we made to our board of directors .
we haul their butts out in the snow , too . you want to know cars outside ?
well , you 've got to stand outside to do this .
and because these are artists , they have very artistic temperaments .
all right ? now one thing about art is , art is discovery , and art is discovering yourself through your art . right ?
and one thing about cars is we 're all a little bit like pygmalion , we are completely in love with our own creations .
this is one of my favorite paintings , it really describes our relationship with cars .
this is sick beyond belief .
but because of this , the intimacy with which we work together as a team takes on a new dimension , a new meaning .
we have a shared center ; we have a shared focus -- that car stays at the middle of all our relationships .
and it 's my job , in the competitive process , to narrow this down .
i heard today about joseph 's death genes that have to go in and kill cell reproduction .
you know , that 's what i have to do sometimes .
we start out with 10 cars ; we narrow it down to five cars , down to three cars , down to two cars , down to one car , and i 'm in the middle of that killing , basically .
someone 's love , someone 's baby .
this is very difficult , and you have to have a bond with your team that permits you to do this , because their life is wrapped up in that too .
they 've got that gene infected in them as well , and they want that to live , more than anything else .
well , this project , deep blue , put me in contact with my team in a way that i never expected , and i want to pass it on to you , because i want you to reflect on this , perhaps in your own relationships .
we wanted to a do a car which was a complete leap of faith for bmw .
we wanted to do a team which was so removed from the way we 'd done it , that i only had a phone number that connected me to them .
so , what we did was : instead of having a staff of artists that are just your wrist , we decided to free up a team of creative designers and engineers to find out what 's the successor to the suv phenomenon in america .
this is 1996 we did this project . and so we sent them off with this team name , deep blue . now many people know deep blue from ibm -- we actually stole it from them because we figured if anybody read our faxes they 'd think we 're talking about computers .
it turned out it was quite clever because deep blue , in a company like bmw , has a hook -- " deep blue , " wow , cool name .
so people get wrapped up in it . and we took a team of designers , and we sent them off to america . and we gave them a budget , what we thought was a set of deliverables , a timetable , and nothing else .
like i said , i just had a phone number that connected me to them .
and a group of engineers worked in germany , and the idea was they would work separately on this problem of what 's the successor to the suv . they would come together , compare notes . then they would work apart , come together , and they would produce together a monumental set of diverse opinions that didn 't pollute each other 's ideas -- but at the same time came together and resolved the problems .
hopefully , really understand the customer at its heart , where the customer is , live with them in america . so -- sent the team off , and actually something different happened . they went other places .
they disappeared , quite honestly , and all i got was postcards .
now , i got some postcards of these guys in las vegas , and i got some postcards of these guys in the grand canyon , and i got these postcards of niagara falls , and pretty soon they 're in new york , and i don 't know where else .
and i 'm telling myself , " this is going to be a great car , they 're doing research that i 've never even thought about before . " right ? and they decided that instead of , like , having a studio , and six or seven apartments , it was cheaper to rent elizabeth taylor 's ex-house in malibu .
and -- at least they told me it was her house , i guess it was at one time , she had a party there or something .
but anyway , this was the house , and they all lived there .
now this is 24 / 7 living , half-a-dozen people who 'd left their -- some had left their wives behind and families behind , and they literally lived in this house for the entire six months the project was in america , but the first three months were the most intensive .
and one of the young women in the project , she was a fantastic lady , she actually built her room in the bathroom .
the bathroom was so big , she built the bed over the bathtub -- it 's quite fascinating .
on the other hand , i didn 't know anything about this . ok ?
nothing . this is all going on , and all i 'm getting is postcards of these guys in las vegas , or whatever , saying , " don 't worry chris , this is really going to be good . " ok ?
so my concept of what a design studio was probably -- i wasn 't up to speed on where these guys were .
however , the engineers back in munich had taken on this kind of newtonian solution , and they were trying to find how many cup holders can dance on the head of a pin , and , you know , these really serious questions that are confronting the modern consumer .
and one was hoping that these two teams would get together , and this collusion of incredible creativity , under these incredible surroundings , and these incredibly stressed-out engineers , would create some incredible solutions .
well , what i didn 't know was , and what we found out was -- these guys , they can 't even like talk to each other under those conditions .
you get a divergence of newtonian and quantum thinking at that point , you have a split in your dialog that is so deep , and so far , that they cannot bring this together at all .
and so we had our first meeting , after three months , in tiburon , which is just up the road from here -- you know tiburon ?
and the idea was after the first three months of this independent research they would present it all to dr. goschel -- who is now my boss , and at that time he was co-mentor on the project -- and they would present their results .
we would see where we were going , we would see the first indication of what could be the successive phenomenon to the suv in america .
and so i had these ideas in my head , that this is going to be great .
i mean , i 'm going to see so much work , it 's so intense -- i know probably las vegas meant a lot about it , and i 'm not really sure where the grand canyon came in either -- but somehow all this is going to come together , and i 'm going to see some really great product .
so we went to tiburon , after three months , and the team had gotten together the week before , many days ahead of time .
the engineers flew over , and designers got together with them , and they put their presentation together .
well , it turns out that the engineers hadn 't done anything .
and they hadn 't done anything because -- kind of , like in car business , engineers are there to solve problems , and we were asking them to create a problem .
and the engineers were waiting for the designers to say , " this is the problem that we 've created , now help us solve it . "
and they couldn 't talk about it . so what happened was , the engineers showed up with nothing .
and the engineers told the designers , " if you go in with all your stuff , we 'll walk out , we 'll walk right out of the project . " so i didn 't know any of this , and we got a presentation that had an agenda , looked like this .
there was a whole lot of dialog .
we spent four hours being told all about vocabulary that needs to be built between engineers and designers .
and here i 'm expecting at any moment , " ok , they 're going to turn the page , and i 'm going to see the cars , i 'm going to see the sketches , i 'm going to see maybe some idea of where it 's going . "
dialog kept on going , with mental maps of words , and pretty soon it was becoming obvious that instead of being dazzled with brilliance , i was seriously being baffled with bullshit .
and if you can imagine what this is like , to have these months of postcard indication of how great this team is working , and they 're out there spending all this money , and they 're learning , and they 're doing all this stuff .
i went fucking ballistic , right ? i went nuts .
you can probably remember tiburon , it used to look like this .
after four hours of this , i stood up , and i took this team apart .
i screamed at them , i yelled at them , " what the hell are you doing ?
you 're letting me down , you 're my designers , you 're supposed to be the creative ones , what the hell is going on around here ? " it was probably one of my better tirades , i have some good ones , but this was probably one of my better ones . and i went into these people ; how could they take bmw 's money , how could they have a holiday for three months and produce nothing , nothing ?
because of course they didn 't tell us that they had three station wagons full of drawings , model concepts , pictures -- everything i wanted , they 'd locked up in the cars , because they had shown solidarity with the engineers -- and they 'd decided not to show me anything , in order to give the chance for problem solving a chance to start , because they hadn 't realized , of course , that they couldn 't do problem creating .
so we went to lunch -- and i 've got to tell you , this was one seriously quiet lunch .
the engineers all sat at one end of the table , the designers and i sat at the other end of the table , really quiet .
and i was just fucking furious , furious . ok ?
probably because they had all the fun and i didn 't , you know .
that 's what you get furious about right ?
and somebody asked me about catherine , my wife , you know , did she fly out with me or something ?
i said , " no , " and it triggered a set of thoughts about my wife .
and i recalled that when catherine and i were married , the priest gave a very nice sermon , and he said something very important .
he said , " love is not selfish , " he said , " love does not mean counting how many times i say , ' i love you . '
it doesn 't mean you had sex this many times this month , and it 's two times less than last month , so that means you don 't love me as much .
love is not selfish . " and i thought about this , and i thought , " you know , i 'm not showing love here . i 'm seriously not showing love .
i 'm in the air , i 'm in the air without trust .
this cannot be . this cannot be that i 'm expecting a certain number of sketches , and to me that 's my quantification method for qualifying a team .
this cannot be . " so i told them this story . i said , " guys , i 'm thinking about something here , this isn 't right . i can 't have a relationship with you guys based on a premise that is a quantifiable one .
based on a dictate premise that says , ' i 'm a boss , you do what i say , without trust . ' "
i said " this can 't be . "
actually , we all broke down into tears , to be quite honest about it , because they still could not tell me how much frustration they had built up inside of them , not being able to show me what i wanted , and merely having to ask me to trust them that it would come .
and i think we felt much closer that day , we cut a lot of strings that didn 't need to be there , and we forged the concept for what real team and creativity is all about .
we put the car back at the center of our thoughts , and we put love , i think , truly back into the center of the process .
by the way , that team went on to create six different concepts for the next model of what would be the proposal for the next generation after suvs in america .
one of those was the idea of a crossover coupes -- you see it downstairs , the x coupe -- they had a lot of fun with that .
it was the rendition of our motorcycle , the gs , as carl magnusson says , " brute-iful , " as the idea of what could be a motorcycle , if you add two more wheels .
and so , in conclusion , my lesson that i wanted to pass on to you , was this one here . i 'm also going to steal a little quote out of " little prince . "
there 's a lot to be said about trust and love , if you know that those two words are synonymous for design .
i had a very , very meaningful relationship with my team that day , and it 's stayed that way ever since .
and i hope that you too find that there 's more to design , and more towards the art of the design , than doing it yourself .
it 's true that the trust and the love , that makes it worthwhile .
thanks so much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / jay _ bradner _ open _ source _ cancer _ research.html
how does cancer know it 's cancer ? at jay bradner 's lab , they found a molecule that might hold the answer , jq1 -- and instead of patenting jq1 , they published their findings and mailed samples to 40 other labs to work on . an inspiring look at the open-source future of medical research .
business , cancer , medical research , open-source , science
1256
jay bradner : open-source cancer research
i moved to boston 10 years ago , from chicago , with an interest in cancer and in chemistry .
you might know that chemistry is the science of making molecules -- or to my taste , new drugs for cancer .
and you might also know that , for science and medicine , boston is a bit of a candy store .
you can 't roll a stop sign in cambridge without hitting a graduate student .
the bar is called the miracle of science .
the billboards say " lab space available . "
and it 's fair to say that in these 10 years , we 've witnessed absolutely the start of a scientific revolution -- that of genome medicine .
we know more about the patients that enter our clinic now than ever before .
and we 're able , finally , to answer the question that 's been so pressing for so many years : why do i have cancer ?
this information is also pretty staggering .
you might know that , so far in just the dawn of this revolution , we know that there are perhaps 40,000 unique mutations affecting more than 10,000 genes , and that there are 500 of these genes that are bona-fide drivers , causes of cancer .
yet comparatively , we have about a dozen targeted medications .
and this inadequacy of cancer medicine really hit home when my father was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer .
we didn 't fly him to boston .
we didn 't sequence his genome .
it 's been known for decades what causes this malignancy .
it 's three proteins -- ras , myc and p53 .
this is old information we 've known since about the 80s , yet there 's no medicine i can prescribe to a patient with this or any of the numerous solid tumors caused by these three horsemen of the apocalypse that is cancer .
there 's no ras , no myc , no p53 drug .
and you might fairly ask : why is that ?
and the very unsatisfying , yet scientific , answer is it 's too hard .
that for whatever reason , these three proteins have entered a space in the language of our field that 's called the undruggable genome -- which is like calling a computer unsurfable or the moon unwalkable .
it 's a horrible term of trade .
but what it means is that we fail to identify a greasy pocket in these proteins , into which we , like molecular locksmiths , can fashion an active , small , organic molecule or drug substance .
now as i was training in clinical medicine and hematology and oncology and stem cell transplantation , what we had instead , cascading through the regulatory network at the fda , were these substances -- arsenic , thalidomide and this chemical derivative of nitrogen mustard gas .
and this is the 21st century .
and so , i guess you 'd say , dissatisfied with the performance and quality of these medicines , i went back to school in chemistry with the idea that perhaps by learning the trade of discovery chemistry and approaching it in the context of this brave new world of the open-source , the crowd-source , the collaborative network that we have access to within academia , that we might more quickly bring powerful and targeted therapies to our patients .
and so please consider this a work in progress , but i 'd like to tell you today a story about a very rare cancer called midline carcinoma , about the protein target , the undruggable protein target that causes this cancer , called brd4 , and about a molecule developed at my lab at dana farber cancer institute called jq1 , which we affectionately named for jun qi , the chemist that made this molecule .
now brd4 is an interesting protein .
you might ask yourself , with all the things cancer 's trying to do to kill our patient , how does it remember it 's cancer ?
when it winds up its genome , divides into two cells and unwinds again , why does it not turn into an eye , into a liver , as it has all the genes necessary to do this ?
it remembers that it 's cancer .
and the reason is that cancer , like every cell in the body , places little molecular bookmarks , that remind the cell " i 'm cancer ; i should keep growing . "
and those post-it notes involve this and other proteins of its class -- so-called bromodomains .
so we developed an idea , a rationale , that perhaps , if we made a molecule that prevented the post-it note from sticking by entering into the little pocket at the base of this spinning protein , then maybe we could convince cancer cells , certainly those addicted to this brd4 protein , that they 're not cancer .
and so we started to work on this problem .
we developed libraries of compounds and eventually arrived at this and similar substances called jq1 .
now not being a drug company , we could do certain things , we had certain flexibilities , that i respect that a pharmaceutical industry doesn 't have .
we just started mailing it to our friends .
i have a small lab .
we thought we 'd just send it to people and see how the molecule behaves .
and we sent it to oxford , england where a group of talented crystallographers provided this picture , which helped us understand exactly how this molecule is so potent for this protein target .
it 's what we call a perfect fit of shape complimentarity , or hand in glove .
now this is a very rare cancer , this brd4-addicted cancer .
and so we worked with samples of material that were collected by young pathologists at brigham women 's hospital .
and as we treated these cells with this molecule , we observed something really striking .
the cancer cells , small , round and rapidly dividing , grew these arms and extensions .
they were changing shape .
in effect , the cancer cell was forgetting it was cancer and becoming a normal cell .
this got us very excited .
the next step would be to put this molecule into mice .
the only problem was there 's no mouse model of this rare cancer .
and so at the time that we were doing this research , i was caring for a 29 year-old firefighter from connecticut who was very much at the end of life with this incurable cancer .
this brd4-addicted cancer was growing throughout his left lung , and he had a chest tube in that was draining little bits of debris .
and every nursing shift we would throw this material out .
and so we approached this patient and asked if he would collaborate with us .
could we take this precious and rare cancerous material from this chest tube and drive it across town and put it into mice and try to do a clinical trial and stage it with a prototype drug ?
well that would be impossible and , rightly , illegal to do in humans .
and he obliged us .
at the lurie family center for animal imaging , my colleague , andrew kung , grew this cancer successfully in mice without ever touching plastic .
and you can see this pet scan of a mouse -- what we call a pet pet .
the cancer is growing as this red , huge mass in the hind limb of this animal .
and as we treat it with our compound , this addiction to sugar , this rapid growth , faded .
and on the animal on the right , you see that the cancer was responding .
we 've completed now clinical trials in four mouse models of this disease .
and every time , we see the same thing .
the mice with this cancer that get the drug live , and the ones that don 't rapidly perish .
so we started to wonder , what would a drug company do at this point ?
well they probably would keep this a secret until they turn a prototype drug into an active pharmaceutical substance .
and so we did just the opposite .
we published a paper that described this finding at the earliest prototype stage .
we gave the world the chemical identity of this molecule , typically a secret in our discipline .
we told people exactly how to make it .
we gave them our email address , suggesting that , if they write us , we 'll send them a free molecule .
we basically tried to create the most competitive environment for our lab as possible .
and this was , unfortunately , successful .
because now when we 've shared this molecule , just since december of last year , with 40 laboratories in the united states and 30 more in europe -- many of them pharmaceutical companies seeking now to enter this space , to target this rare cancer that , thankfully right now , is quite desirable to study in that industry .
but the science that 's coming back from all of these laboratories about the use of this molecule has provided us insights that we might not have had on our own .
leukemia cells treated with this compound turn into normal white blood cells .
mice with multiple myeloma , an incurable malignancy of the bone marrow , respond dramatically to the treatment with this drug .
you might know that fat has memory .
nice to be able to demonstrate that for you .
and in fact , this molecule prevents this adipocyte , this fat stem cell , from remembering how to make fat such that mice on a high fat diet , like the folks in my hometown of chicago , fail to develop fatty liver , which is a major medical problem .
what this research taught us -- not just my lab , but our institute , and harvard medical school more generally -- is that we have unique resources in academia for drug discovery -- that our center that has tested perhaps more cancer molecules in a scientific way than any other , never made one of its own .
for all the reasons you see listed here , we think there 's a great opportunity for academic centers to participate in this earliest , conceptually-tricky and creative discipline of prototype drug discovery .
so what next ?
we have this molecule , but it 's not a pill yet .
it 's not orally available .
we need to fix it , so that we can deliver it to our patients .
and everyone in the lab , especially following the interaction with these patients , feels quite compelled to deliver a drug substance based on this molecule .
it 's here where i have to say that we could use your help and your insights , your collaborative participation .
unlike a drug company , we don 't have a pipeline that we can deposit these molecules into .
we don 't have a team of salespeople and marketeers that can tell us how to position this drug against the other .
what we do have is the flexibility of an academic center to work with competent , motivated , enthusiastic , hopefully well-funded people to carry these molecules forward into the clinic while preserving our ability to share the prototype drug worldwide .
this molecule will soon leave our benches and go into a small startup company called tensha therapeutics .
and really this is the fourth of these molecules to kind of graduate from our little pipeline of drug discovery , two of which -- a topical drug for lymphoma of the skin , an oral substance for the treatment of multiple myeloma -- will actually come to the bedside for first clinical trial in july of this year .
for us , a major and exciting milestone .
i want to leave you with just two ideas .
the first is if anything is unique about this research , it 's less the science than the strategy -- that this for us was a social experiment , an experiment in what would happen if we were as open and honest at the earliest phase of discovery chemistry research as we could be .
this string of letters and numbers and symbols and parentheses that can be texted , i suppose , or twittered worldwide , is the chemical identity of our pro compound .
it 's the information that we most need from pharmaceutical companies , the information on how these early prototype drugs might work .
yet this information is largely a secret .
and so we seek really to download from the amazing successes of the computer science industry two principles : that of opensource and that of crowdsourcing to quickly , responsibly accelerate the delivery of targeted therapeutics to patients with cancer .
now the business model involves all of you .
this research is funded by the public .
it 's funded by foundations .
and one thing i 've learned in boston is that you people will do anything for cancer -- and i love that .
you bike across the state . you walk up and down the river .
i 've never seen really anywhere this unique support for cancer research .
and so i want to thank you for your participation , your collaboration and most of all for your confidence in our ideas .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / sean _ carroll _ distant _ time _ and _ the _ hint _ of _ a _ multiverse.html
at tedxcaltech , cosmologist sean carroll attacks -- in an entertaining and thought-provoking tour through the nature of time and the universe -- a deceptively simple question : why does time exist at all ? the potential answers point to a surprising view of the nature of the universe , and our place in it .
astronomy , cosmos , philosophy , physics , science , time , universe
1139
sean carroll : distant time and the hint of a multiverse
the universe is really big .
we live in a galaxy , the milky way galaxy .
there are about a hundred billion stars in the milky way galaxy .
and if you take a camera and you point it at a random part of the sky , and you just keep the shutter open , as long as your camera is attached to the hubble space telescope , it will see something like this .
every one of these little blobs is a galaxy roughly the size of our milky way -- a hundred billion stars in each of those blobs .
there are approximately a hundred billion galaxies in the observable universe .
100 billion is the only number you need to know .
the age of the universe , between now and the big bang , is a hundred billion in dog years .
which tells you something about our place in the universe .
one thing you can do with a picture like this is simply admire it .
it 's extremely beautiful .
i 've often wondered , what is the evolutionary pressure that made our ancestors in the veldt adapt and evolve to really enjoy pictures of galaxies when they didn 't have any .
but we would also like to understand it .
as a cosmologist , i want to ask , why is the universe like this ?
one big clue we have is that the universe is changing with time .
if you looked at one of these galaxies and measured its velocity , it would be moving away from you .
and if you look at a galaxy even farther away , it would be moving away faster .
so we say the universe is expanding .
what that means , of course , is that , in the past , things were closer together .
in the past , the universe was more dense , and it was also hotter .
if you squeeze things together , the temperature goes up .
that kind of makes sense to us .
the thing that doesn 't make sense to us as much is that the universe , at early times , near the big bang , was also very , very smooth .
you might think that that 's not a surprise .
the air in this room is very smooth .
you might say , " well , maybe things just smoothed themselves out . "
but the conditions near the big bang are very , very different than the conditions of the air in this room .
in particular , things were a lot denser .
the gravitational pull of things was a lot stronger near the big bang .
what you have to think about is we have a universe with a hundred billion galaxies , a hundred billion stars each .
at early times , those hundred billion galaxies were squeezed into a region about this big -- literally -- at early times .
and you have to imagine doing that squeezing without any imperfections , without any little spots where there were a few more atoms than somewhere else .
because if there had been , they would have collapsed under the gravitational pull into a huge black hole .
keeping the universe very , very smooth at early times is not easy ; it 's a delicate arrangement .
it 's a clue that the early universe is not chosen randomly .
there is something that made it that way .
we would like to know what .
so part of our understanding of this was given to us by ludwig boltzmann , an austrian physicist in the 19th century .
and boltzmann 's contribution was that he helped us understand entropy .
you 've heard of entropy .
it 's the randomness , the disorder , the chaoticness of some systems .
boltzmann gave us a formula -- engraved on his tombstone now -- that really quantifies what entropy is .
and it 's basically just saying that entropy is the number of ways we can rearrange the constituents of a system so that you don 't notice , so that macroscopically it looks the same .
if you have the air in this room , you don 't notice each individual atom .
a low entropy configuration is one in which there 's only a few arrangements that look that way .
a high entropy arrangement is one that there are many arrangements that look that way .
this is a crucially important insight because it helps us explain the second law of thermodynamics -- the law that says that entropy increases in the universe , or in some isolated bit of the universe .
the reason why entropy increases is simply because there are many more ways to be high entropy than to be low entropy .
that 's a wonderful insight , but it leaves something out .
this insight that entropy increases , by the way , is what 's behind what we call the arrow of time , the difference between the past and the future .
every difference that there is between the past and the future is because entropy is increasing -- the fact that you can remember the past , but not the future .
the fact that you are born , and then you live , and then you die , always in that order , that 's because entropy is increasing .
boltzmann explained that if you start with low entropy , it 's very natural for it to increase because there 's more ways to be high entropy .
what he didn 't explain was why the entropy was ever low in the first place .
the fact that the entropy of the universe was low was a reflection of the fact that the early universe was very , very smooth .
we 'd like to understand that .
that 's our job as cosmologists .
unfortunately , it 's actually not a problem that we 've been giving enough attention to .
it 's not one of the first things people would say , if you asked a modern cosmologist , " what are the problems we 're trying to address ? "
one of the people who did understand that this was a problem was richard feynman .
50 years ago , he gave a series of a bunch of different lectures .
he gave the popular lectures that became " the character of physical law . " he gave lectures to caltech undergrads that became " the feynman lectures on physics . " he gave lectures to caltech graduate students that became " the feynman lectures on gravitation . " in every one of these books , every one of these sets of lectures , he emphasized this puzzle : why did the early universe have such a small entropy ?
so he says -- i 'm not going to do the accent -- he says , " for some reason , the universe , at one time , had a very low entropy for its energy content , and since then the entropy has increased .
the arrow of time cannot be completely understood until the mystery of the beginnings of the history of the universe are reduced still further from speculation to understanding . "
so that 's our job .
we want to know -- this is 50 years ago , " surely , " you 're thinking , " we 've figured it out by now . "
it 's not true that we 've figured it out by now .
the reason the problem has gotten worse , rather than better , is because in 1998 we learned something crucial about the universe that we didn 't know before .
we learned that it 's accelerating .
the universe is not only expanding .
if you look at the galaxy , it 's moving away .
if you come back a billion years later and look at it again , it will be moving away faster .
individual galaxies are speeding away from us faster and faster
so we say the universe is accelerating .
unlike the low entropy of the early universe , even though we don 't know the answer for this , we at least have a good theory that can explain it , if that theory is right , and that 's the theory of dark energy .
it 's just the idea that empty space itself has energy .
in every little cubic centimeter of space , whether or not there 's stuff , whether or not there 's particles , matter , radiation or whatever , there 's still energy , even in the space itself .
and this energy , according to einstein , exerts a push on the universe .
it is a perpetual impulse that pushes galaxies apart from each other .
because dark energy , unlike matter or radiation , does not dilute away as the universe expands .
the amount of energy in each cubic centimeter remains the same , even as the universe gets bigger and bigger .
this has crucial implications for what the universe is going to do in the future .
for one thing , the universe will expand forever .
back when i was your age , we didn 't know what the universe was going to do .
some people thought that the universe would recollapse in the future .
einstein was fond of this idea .
but if there 's dark energy , and the dark energy does not go away , the universe is just going to keep expanding forever and ever and ever .
14 billion years in the past , 100 billion dog years , but an infinite number of years into the future .
meanwhile , for all intents and purposes , space looks finite to us .
space may be finite or infinite , but because the universe is accelerating , there are parts of it we cannot see and never will see .
there 's a finite region of space that we have access to , surrounded by a horizon .
so even though time goes on forever , space is limited to us .
finally , empty space has a temperature .
in the 1970s , stephen hawking told us that a black hole , even though you think it 's black , it actually emits radiation when you take into account quantum mechanics .
the curvature of space-time around the black hole brings to life the quantum mechanical fluctuation , and the black hole radiates .
a precisely similar calculation by hawking and gary gibbons showed that if you have dark energy in empty space , then the whole universe radiates .
the energy of empty space brings to life quantum fluctuations .
and so even though the universe will last forever , and ordinary matter and radiation will dilute away , there will always be some radiation , some thermal fluctuations , even in empty space .
so what this means is that the universe is like a box of gas that lasts forever .
well what is the implication of that ?
that implication was studied by boltzmann back in the 19th century .
he said , well , entropy increases because there are many , many more ways for the universe to be high entropy , rather than low entropy .
but that 's a probabilistic statement .
it will probably increase , and the probability is enormously huge .
it 's not something you have to worry about -- the air in this room all gathering over one part of the room and suffocating us .
it 's very , very unlikely .
except if they locked the doors and kept us here literally forever , that would happen .
everything that is allowed , every configuration that is allowed to be obtained by the molecules in this room , would eventually be obtained .
so boltzmann says , look , you could start with a universe that was in thermal equilibrium .
he didn 't know about the big bang . he didn 't know about the expansion of the universe .
he thought that space and time were explained by isaac newton -- they were absolute ; they just stuck there forever .
so his idea of a natural universe was one in which the air molecules were just spread out evenly everywhere -- the everything molecules .
but if you 're boltzmann , you know that if you wait long enough , the random fluctuations of those molecules will occasionally bring them into lower entropy configurations .
and then , of course , in the natural course of things , they will expand back .
so it 's not that entropy must always increase -- you can get fluctuations into lower entropy , more organized situations .
well if that 's true , boltzmann then goes onto invent two very modern-sounding ideas -- the multiverse and the anthropic principle .
he says , the problem with thermal equilibrium is that we can 't live there .
remember , life itself depends on the arrow of time .
we would not be able to process information , metabolize , walk and talk , if we lived in thermal equilibrium .
so if you imagine a very , very big universe , an infinitely big universe , with randomly bumping into each other particles , there will occasionally be small fluctuations in the lower entropy states , and then they relax back .
but there will also be large fluctuations .
occasionally , you will make a planet or a star or a galaxy or a hundred billion galaxies .
so boltzmann says , we will only live in the part of the multiverse , in the part of this infinitely big set of fluctuating particles , where life is possible .
that 's the region where entropy is low .
maybe our universe is just one of those things that happens from time to time .
now your homework assignment is to really think about this , to contemplate what it means .
carl sagan once famously said that " in order to make an apple pie , you must first invent the universe . " but he was not right .
in boltzmann 's scenario , if you want to make an apple pie , you just wait for the random motion of atoms to make you an apple pie .
that will happen much more frequently than the random motions of atoms making you an apple orchard and some sugar and an oven , and then making you an apple pie .
so this scenario makes predictions .
and the predictions are that the fluctuations that make us are minimal .
even if you imagine that this room we are in now exists and is real and here we are , and we have , not only our memories , but our impression that outside there 's something called caltech and the united states and the milky way galaxy , it 's much easier for all those impressions to randomly fluctuate into your brain than for them actually to randomly fluctuate into caltech , the united states and the galaxy .
the good news is that , therefore , this scenario does not work ; it is not right .
this scenario predicts that we should be a minimal fluctuation .
even if you left our galaxy out , you would not get a hundred billion other galaxies .
and feynman also understood this .
feynman says , " from the hypothesis that the world is a fluctuation , all the predictions are that if we look at a part of the world we 've never seen before , we will find it mixed up , and not like the piece we 've just looked at -- high entropy .
if our order were due to a fluctuation , we would not expect order anywhere but where we have just noticed it .
we therefore conclude the universe is not a fluctuation . "
so that 's good . the question is then what is the right answer ?
if the universe is not a fluctuation , why did the early universe have a low entropy ?
and i would love to tell you the answer , but i 'm running out of time .
here is the universe that we tell you about , versus the universe that really exists .
i just showed you this picture .
the universe is expanding for the last 10 billion years or so .
it 's cooling off .
but we now know enough about the future of the universe to say a lot more .
if the dark energy remains around , the stars around us will use up their nuclear fuel , they will stop burning .
they will fall into black holes .
we will live in a universe with nothing in it but black holes .
that universe will last 10 to the 100 years -- a lot longer than our little universe has lived .
the future is much longer than the past .
but even black holes don 't last forever .
they will evaporate , and we will be left with nothing but empty space .
that empty space lasts essentially forever . however , you notice , since empty space gives off radiation , there 's actually thermal fluctuations , and it cycles around all the different possible combinations of the degrees of freedom that exist in empty space .
so even though the universe lasts forever , there 's only a finite number of things that can possibly happen in the universe .
they all happen over a period of time equal to 10 to the 10 to the 120 years . so here 's two questions for you .
number one : if the universe lasts for 10 to the 10 to the 120 years ,
why are we born in the first 14 billion years of it , in the warm , comfortable afterglow of the big bang ?
why aren 't we in empty space ?
you might say , " well there 's nothing there to be living , "
but that 's not right .
you could be a random fluctuation out of the nothingness .
why aren 't you ?
more homework assignment for you .
so like i said , i don 't actually know the answer .
i 'm going to give you my favorite scenario .
either it 's just like that . there is no explanation .
this is a brute fact about the universe
that you should learn to accept and stop asking questions .
or maybe the big bang is not the beginning of the universe .
an egg , an unbroken egg , is a low entropy configuration , and yet , when we open our refrigerator , we do not go , " hah , how surprising to find this low entropy configuration in our refrigerator . "
that 's because an egg is not a closed system ; it comes out of a chicken .
maybe the universe comes out of a universal chicken .
maybe there is something that naturally , through the growth of the laws of physics , gives rise to universe like ours in low entropy configurations .
if that 's true , it would happen more than once ; we would be part of a much bigger multiverse .
that 's my favorite scenario .
so the organizers asked me to end with a bold speculation .
my bold speculation is that i will be absolutely vindicated by history .
and 50 years from now , all of my current wild ideas will be accepted as truths by the scientific and external communities .
we will all believe that our little universe is just a small part of a much larger multiverse .
and even better , we will understand what happened at the big bang in terms of a theory that we will be able to compare to observations .
this is a prediction . i might be wrong .
but we 've been thinking as a human race about what the universe was like , why it came to be in the way it did for many , many years .
it 's exciting to think we may finally know the answer someday .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / william _ kamkwamba _ how _ i _ harnessed _ the _ wind.html
at age 14 , in poverty and famine , a malawian boy built a windmill to power his family 's home . now at 22 , william kamkwamba , who speaks at ted , here , for the second time , shares in his own words the moving tale of invention that changed his life .
africa , creativity , energy , invention , poverty
642
william kamkwamba : how i harnessed the wind
thank you .
two years ago , i stood on the ted stage in arusha , tanzania .
i spoke very briefly about one of my proudest creations .
it was a simple machine that changed my life .
before that time , i had never been away from my home in malawi .
i had never used a computer .
i had never seen an internet .
on the stage that day , i was so nervous .
my english lost ,
i wanted to vomit .
i had never been surrounded by so many azungu , white people .
there was a story i wouldn 't tell you then .
but well , i 'm feeling good right now .
i would like to share that story today .
we have seven children in my family .
all sisters , excepting me .
this is me with my dad when i was a little boy .
before i discovered the wonders of science , i was just a simple farmer in a country of poor farmers .
like everyone else , we grew maize .
one year our fortune turned very bad .
in 2001 we experienced an awful famine .
within five months all malawians began to starve to death .
my family ate one meal per day , at night .
only three swallows of nsima for each one of us .
the food passes through our bodies .
we drop down to nothing .
in malawi , the secondary school , you have to pay school fees .
because of the hunger , i was forced to drop out of school .
i looked at my father and looked at those dry fields .
it was the future i couldn 't accept .
i felt very happy to be at the secondary school ,
so i was determined to do anything possible to receive education .
so i went to a library .
i read books , science books , especially physics .
i couldn 't read english that well .
i used diagrams and pictures to learn the words around them .
another book put that knowledge in my hands .
it said a windmill could pump water and generate electricity .
pump water meant irrigation ,
a defense against hunger , which we were experiencing by that time .
so i decided i would build one windmill for myself .
but i didn 't have materials to use ,
so i went to a scrap yard where i found my materials .
many people , including my mother , said i was crazy .
i found a tractor fan , shock absorber , pvc pipes .
using a bicycle frame and an old bicycle dynamo , i built my machine .
it was one light at first .
and then four lights , with switches , and even a circuit breaker , modeled after an electric bell .
another machine pumps water for irrigation .
queues of people start lining up at my house to charge their mobile phone .
i could not get rid of them .
and the reporters came too , which lead to bloggers and which lead to a call from something called ted .
i had never seen an airplane before .
i had never slept in a hotel .
so , on stage that day in arusha , my english lost , i said something like , " i tried . and i made it . "
so i would like to say something to all the people out there like me to the africans , and the poor who are struggling with your dreams . god bless .
maybe one day you will watch this on the internet .
i say to you , trust yourself and believe .
whatever happens , don 't give up .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / pranav _ mistry _ the _ thrilling _ potential _ of _ sixthsense _ technology.html
at tedindia , pranav mistry demos several tools that help the physical world interact with the world of data -- including a deep look at his sixthsense device and a new , paradigm-shifting paper " laptop . " in an onstage q & a , mistry says he 'll open-source the software behind sixthsense , to open its possibilities to all .
demo , design , open-source , technology
685
pranav mistry : the thrilling potential of sixthsense technology
we grew up interacting with the physical objects around us .
there are an enormous number of them that we use every day .
unlike most of our computing devices , these objects are much more fun to use .
when you talk about objects , one other thing automatically comes attached to that thing , and that is gestures : how we manipulate these objects , how we use these objects in everyday life .
we use gestures not only to interact with these objects , but we also use them to interact with each other .
a gesture of " namaste ! , " maybe , to respect someone , or maybe --
in india i don 't need to teach a kid that this means " four runs " in cricket .
it comes as a part of our everyday learning .
so , i am very interested , from the beginning , that how --
how our knowledge about everyday objects and gestures , and how we use these objects , can be leveraged to our interactions with the digital world .
rather than using a keyboard and mouse , why can i not use my computer in the same way that i interact in the physical world ?
so , i started this exploration around eight years back , and it literally started with a mouse on my desk .
rather than using it for my computer , i actually opened it .
most of you might be aware that , in those days , the mouse used to come with a ball inside , and there were two rollers that actually guide the computer where the ball is moving , and , accordingly , where the mouse is moving .
so , i was interested in these two rollers , and i actually wanted more , so i borrowed another mouse from a friend --
never returned to him --
and i now had four rollers .
interestingly , what i did with these rollers is , basically , i took them off of these mouses and then put them in one line .
it had some strings and pulleys and some springs .
what i got is basically a gesture interface device that actually acts as a motion-sensing device made for two dollars .
so , here , whatever movement i do in my physical world is actually replicated inside the digital world just using this small device that i made , around eight years back , in 2000 .
because i was interested in integrating these two worlds , i thought of sticky notes .
i thought , " why can i not connect the normal interface of a physical sticky note to the digital world ? "
a message written on a sticky note to my mom on paper can come to an sms , or maybe a meeting reminder automatically syncs with my digital calendar --
a to-do list that automatically syncs with you .
but you can also search in the digital world , or maybe you can write a query , saying , " what is dr. smith 's address ? "
and this small system actually prints it out --
so it actually acts like a paper input-output system , just made out of paper .
in another exploration , i thought of making a pen that can draw in three dimensions .
so , i implemented this pen that can help designers and architects not only think in three dimensions , but they can actually draw so that it 's more intuitive to use that way .
then i thought , " why not make a google map , but in the physical world ? "
rather than typing a keyword to find something , i put my objects on top of it .
if i put a boarding pass , it will show me where the flight gate is .
a coffee cup will show where you can find more coffee , or where you can trash the cup .
so , these were some of the earlier explorations i did because the goal was to connect these two worlds seamlessly .
among all these experiments , there was one thing in common : i was trying to bring a part of the physical world to the digital world .
i was taking some part of the objects , or any of the intuitiveness of real life , and bringing them to the digital world , because the goal was to make our computing interfaces more intuitive .
but then i realized that we humans are not actually interested in computing .
what we are interested in is information .
we want to know about things .
we want to know about dynamic things going around .
so i thought , around last year -- in the beginning of the last year --
i started thinking , " why can i not take this approach in the reverse way ? "
maybe , " how about i take my digital world and paint the physical world with that digital information ? "
because pixels are actually , right now , confined in these rectangular devices that fit in our pockets .
why can i not remove this confine and take that to my everyday objects , everyday life so that i don 't need to learn the new language for interacting with those pixels ?
so , in order to realize this dream , i actually thought of putting a big-size projector on my head .
i think that 's why this is called a head-mounted projector , isn 't it ?
i took it very literally , and took my bike helmet , put a little cut over there so that the projector actually fits nicely .
so now , what i can do --
i can augment the world around me with this digital information .
but later , i realized that i actually wanted to interact with those digital pixels , also .
so i put a small camera over there , that acts as a digital eye .
later , we moved to a much better , consumer-oriented pendant version of that , that many of you now know as the sixthsense device .
but the most interesting thing about this particular technology is that you can carry your digital world with you wherever you go .
you can start using any surface , any wall around you , as an interface .
the camera is actually tracking all your gestures .
whatever you 're doing with your hands , it 's understanding that gesture .
and , actually , if you see , there are some color markers that in the beginning version we are using with it .
you can start painting on any wall .
you stop by a wall , and start painting on that wall .
but we are not only tracking one finger , here .
we are giving you the freedom of using all of both of your hands , so you can actually use both of your hands to zoom into or zoom out of a map just by pinching all present .
the camera is actually doing --
just , getting all the images --
is doing the edge recognition and also the color recognition and so many other small algorithms are going on inside .
so , technically , it 's a little bit complex , but it gives you an output which is more intuitive to use , in some sense .
but i 'm more excited that you can actually take it outside .
rather than getting your camera out of your pocket , you can just do the gesture of taking a photo and it takes a photo for you .
thank you .
and later i can find a wall , anywhere , and start browsing those photos or maybe , " ok , i want to modify this photo a little bit and send it as an email to a friend . "
so , we are looking for an era where computing will actually merge with the physical world .
and , of course , if you don 't have any surface , you can start using your palm for simple operations .
here , i 'm dialing a phone number just using my hand .
the camera is actually not only understanding your hand movements , but , interestingly , is also able to understand what objects you are holding in your hand .
what we 're doing here is actually --
for example , in this case , the book cover is matched with so many thousands , or maybe millions of books online , and checking out which book it is .
once it has that information , it finds out more reviews about that , or maybe new york times has a sound overview on that , so you can actually hear , on a physical book , a review as sound .
this was obama 's visit last week to mit .
so , i was seeing the live [ video ] of his talk , outside , on just a newspaper .
your newspaper will show you live weather information rather than having it updated -- like , you have to check your computer in order to do that , right ?
when i 'm going back , i can just use my boarding pass to check how much my flight has been delayed , because at that particular time , i 'm not feeling like opening my iphone , and checking out a particular icon .
and i think this technology will not only change the way --
yes .
it will change the way we interact with people , also , not only the physical world .
the fun part is , i 'm going to the boston metro , and playing a pong game inside the train on the ground , right ?
and i think the imagination is the only limit of what you can think of when this kind of technology merges with real life .
but many of you argue , actually , that all of our work is not only about physical objects .
we actually do lots of accounting and paper editing and all those kinds of things ; what about that ?
and many of you are excited about the next generation tablet computers to come out in the market .
so , rather than waiting for that , i actually made my own , just using a piece of paper .
so , what i did here is remove the camera --
all the webcam cameras have a microphone inside the camera .
i removed the microphone from that , and then just pinched that --
like i just made a clip out of the microphone --
and clipped that to a piece of paper , any paper that you found around .
so now the sound of the touch is getting me when exactly i 'm touching the paper .
but the camera is actually tracking where my fingers are moving .
you can of course watch movies .
( " good afternoon . my name is russell ... and i am a wilderness explorer in tribe 54 . " ) and you can of course play games .
here , the camera is actually understanding how you 're holding the paper and playing a car-racing game .
many of you already must have thought , ok , you can browse .
yeah . of course you can browse to any websites or you can do all sorts of computing on a piece of paper wherever you need it .
so , more interestingly , i 'm interested in how we can take that in a more dynamic way .
when i come back to my desk i can just pinch that information back to my desktop so i can use my full-size computer .
and why only computers ? we can just play with papers .
paper world is interesting to play with .
here , i 'm taking a part of a document and putting over here a second part from a second place --
and i 'm actually modifying the information that i have over there .
yeah . and i say , " ok , this looks nice , let me print it out , that thing . "
so i now have a print-out of that thing , and now --
the workflow is more intuitive the way we used to do it maybe 20 years back , rather than now switching between these two worlds .
so , as a last thought , i think that integrating information to everyday objects will not only help us to get rid of the digital divide , the gap between these two worlds , but will also help us , in some way , to stay human , to be more connected to our physical world .
and it will actually help us not end up being machines sitting in front of other machines .
that 's all . thank you .
thank you .
chris anderson : so , pranav , first of all , you 're a genius .
this is incredible , really .
what are you doing with this ? is there a company being planned ?
or is this research forever , or what ?
pranav mistry : so , there are lots of companies -- actually sponsor companies of media lab --
interested in taking this ahead in one or another way .
companies like mobile phone operators want to take this in a different way than the ngos in india , [ who ] are thinking , " why can we only have ' sixth sense ' ?
we should have a ' fifth sense ' for missing-sense people who cannot speak .
this technology can be used for them to speak out in a different way with maybe a speaker system . "
ca : what are your own plans ? are you staying at mit , or are you going to do something with this ?
pm : i 'm trying to make this more available to people so that anyone can develop their own sixthsense device , because the hardware is actually not that hard to manufacture or hard to make your own .
we will provide all the open source software for them , maybe starting next month .
ca : open source ? wow .
ca : are you going to come back to india with some of this , at some point ?
pm : yeah . yes , yes , of course .
ca : what are your plans ? mit ?
india ? how are you going to split your time going forward ?
pm : there is a lot of energy here . lots of learning .
all of this work that you have seen is all about my learning in india .
and now , if you see , it 's more about the cost-effectiveness : this system costs you $ 300 compared to the $ 20,000 surface tables , or anything like that .
or maybe even the $ 2 mouse gesture system at that time was costing around $ 5,000 ?
so , we actually -- i showed that , at a conference , to president abdul kalam , at that time , and then he said , " ok , we should use this in bhabha atomic research centre for some use of that . "
so i 'm excited about how i can bring the technology to the masses rather than just keeping that technology in the lab environment .
ca : based on the people we 've seen at ted , i would say you 're truly one of the two or three best inventors in the world right now .
it 's an honor to have you at ted .
thank you so much .
that 's fantastic .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / denis _ dutton _ a _ darwinian _ theory _ of _ beauty.html
ted collaborates with animator andrew park to illustrate denis dutton 's provocative theory on beauty -- that art , music and other beautiful things , far from being simply " in the eye of the beholder , " are a core part of human nature with deep evolutionary origins .
art , arts , beauty , brain , culture , design , evolution , society
1008
denis dutton : a darwinian theory of beauty
delighted to be here and to talk to you about a subject dear to my heart , which is beauty .
i do the philosophy of art , aesthetics , actually , for a living .
i try to figure out intellectually , philosophically , psychologically , what the experience of beauty is , what sensibly can be said about it and how people go off the rails in trying to understand it .
now this is an extremely complicated subject , in part because the things that we call beautiful are so different .
i mean just think of the sheer variety -- a baby 's face , berlioz 's " harold in italy , " movies like " the wizard of oz " or the plays of chekhov , a central california landscape , a hokusai view of mt . fuji , " der rosenkavalier , " a stunning match-winning goal in a world cup soccer match , van gogh 's " starry night , " a jane austen novel , fred astaire dancing across the screen .
this brief list includes human beings , natural landforms , works of art and skilled human actions .
an account that explains the presence of beauty in everything on this list is not going to be easy .
i can , however , give you at least a taste of what i regard as the most powerful theory of beauty we yet have .
and we get it not from a philosopher of art , not from a postmodern art theorist or a bigwig art critic .
no , this theory comes from an expert on barnacles and worms and pigeon breeding ,
and you know who i mean : charles darwin .
of course , a lot of people think they already know the proper answer to the question , " what is beauty ? "
it 's in the eye of the beholder .
it 's whatever moves you personally .
or , as some people , especially academics prefer , beauty is in the culturally conditioned eye of the beholder .
people agree that paintings or movies or music are beautiful because their cultures determine a uniformity of aesthetic taste .
taste for both natural beauty and for the arts travel across cultures with great ease .
beethoven is adored in japan .
peruvians love japanese woodblock prints .
inca sculptures are regarded as treasures in british museums , while shakespeare is translated into every major language of the earth .
or just think about american jazz or american movies -- they go everywhere .
there are many differences among the arts , but there are also universal , cross-cultural aesthetic pleasures and values .
how can we explain this universality ?
the best answer lies in trying to reconstruct a darwinian evolutionary history of our artistic and aesthetic tastes .
we need to reverse-engineer our present artistic tastes and preferences and explain how they came to be engraved in our minds
by the actions of both our prehistoric , largely pleistocene environments , where we became fully human , but also by the social situations in which we evolved .
this reverse engineering can also enlist help from the human record preserved in prehistory .
i mean fossils , cave paintings and so forth .
and it should take into account what we know of the aesthetic interests of isolated hunter-gatherer bands that survived into the 19th and the 20th centuries .
now , i personally have no doubt whatsoever that the experience of beauty , with its emotional intensity and pleasure , belongs to our evolved human psychology .
the experience of beauty is one component in a whole series of darwinian adaptations .
beauty is an adaptive effect , which we extend and intensify in the creation and enjoyment of works of art and entertainment .
as many of you will know , evolution operates by two main primary mechanisms .
the first of these is natural selection -- that 's random mutation and selective retention -- along with our basic anatomy and physiology -- the evolution of the pancreas or the eye or the fingernails .
natural selection also explains many basic revulsions , such as the horrid smell of rotting meat , or fears , such as the fear of snakes or standing close to the edge of a cliff .
natural selection also explains pleasures -- sexual pleasure , our liking for sweet , fat and proteins , which in turn explains a lot of popular foods , from ripe fruits through chocolate malts and barbecued ribs .
the other great principle of evolution is sexual selection , and it operates very differently .
the peacock 's magnificent tail is the most famous example of this .
it did not evolve for natural survival .
in fact , it goes against natural survival .
no , the peacock 's tail results from the mating choices made by peahens .
it 's quite a familiar story .
it 's women who actually push history forward .
darwin himself , by the way , had no doubts that the peacock 's tail was beautiful in the eyes of the peahen .
he actually used that word .
now , keeping these ideas firmly in mind , we can say that the experience of beauty is one of the ways that evolution has of arousing and sustaining interest or fascination , even obsession , in order to encourage us toward making the most adaptive decisions for survival and reproduction .
beauty is nature 's way of acting at a distance , so to speak .
i mean , you can 't expect to eat an adaptively beneficial landscape .
it would hardly do to eat your baby or your lover .
so evolution 's trick is to make them beautiful , to have them exert a kind of magnetism to give you the pleasure of simply looking at them .
consider briefly an important source of aesthetic pleasure , the magnetic pull of beautiful landscapes .
people in very different cultures all over the world tend to like a particular kind of landscape , a landscape that just happens to be similar to the pleistocene savannas where we evolved .
this landscape shows up today on calendars , on postcards , in the design of golf courses and public parks and in gold-framed pictures that hang in living rooms from new york to new zealand .
it 's a kind of hudson river school landscape featuring open spaces of low grasses interspersed with copses of trees .
the trees , by the way , are often preferred if they fork near the ground , that is to say , if they 're trees you could scramble up if you were in a tight fix .
the landscape shows the presence of water directly in view , or evidence of water in a bluish distance , indications of animal or bird life as well as diverse greenery and finally -- get this -- a path or a road , perhaps a riverbank or a shoreline , that extends into the distance , almost inviting you to follow it .
this landscape type is regarded as beautiful , even by people in countries that don 't have it .
the ideal savanna landscape is one of the clearest examples where human beings everywhere find beauty in similar visual experience .
but , someone might argue , that 's natural beauty .
how about artistic beauty ?
isn 't that exhaustively cultural ?
no , i don 't think it is .
and once again , i 'd like to look back to prehistory to say something about it .
it is widely assumed that the earliest human artworks are the stupendously skillful cave paintings that we all know from lascaux and chauvet .
chauvet caves are about 32,000 years old , along with a few small , realistic sculptures of women and animals from the same period .
but artistic and decorative skills are actually much older than that . beautiful shell necklaces that look like something you 'd see at an arts and crafts fair , as well as ochre body paint , have been found from around 100,000 years ago .
but the most intriguing prehistoric artifacts are older even than this .
i have in mind the so-called acheulian hand axes .
the oldest stone tools are choppers from the olduvai gorge in east africa .
they go back about two-and-a-half-million years .
these crude tools were around for thousands of centuries , until around 1.4 million years ago when homo erectus started shaping single , thin stone blades , sometimes rounded ovals , but often in what are to our eyes an arresting , symmetrical pointed leaf or teardrop form .
these acheulian hand axes -- they 're named after st. acheul in france , where finds were made in 19th century -- have been unearthed in their thousands , scattered across asia , europe and africa , almost everywhere homo erectus and homo ergaster roamed .
now , the sheer numbers of these hand axes shows that they can 't have been made for butchering animals .
and the plot really thickens when you realize that , unlike other pleistocene tools , the hand axes often exhibit no evidence of wear on their delicate blade edges .
and some , in any event , are too big to use for butchery .
their symmetry , their attractive materials and , above all , their meticulous workmanship are simply quite beautiful to our eyes , even today .
so what were these ancient -- i mean , they 're ancient , they 're foreign , but they 're at the same time somehow familiar .
what were these artifacts for ?
the best available answer is that they were literally the earliest known works of art , practical tools transformed into captivating aesthetic objects , contemplated both for their elegant shape and their virtuoso craftsmanship .
hand axes mark an evolutionary advance in human history -- tools fashioned to function as what darwinians call " fitness signals " -- that is to say , displays that are performances like the peacock 's tail , except that , unlike hair and feathers , the hand axes are consciously cleverly crafted .
competently made hand axes indicated desirable personal qualities -- intelligence , fine motor control , planning ability , conscientiousness and sometimes access to rare materials .
over tens of thousands of generations , such skills increased the status of those who displayed them and gained a reproductive advantage over the less capable .
you know , it 's an old line , but it has been shown to work -- " why don 't you come up to my cave , so i can show you my hand axes ? " except , of course , what 's interesting about this is that we can 't be sure how that idea was conveyed , because the homo erectus that made these objects did not have language .
it 's hard to grasp , but it 's an incredible fact .
this object was made by a hominid ancestor , homo erectus or homo ergaster , between 50,000 and 100,000 years before language .
stretching over a million years , the hand axe tradition is the longest artistic tradition in human and proto-human history .
by the end of the hand axe epic , homo sapiens -- as they were then called , finally -- were doubtless finding new ways to amuse and amaze each other by , who knows , telling jokes , storytelling , dancing , or hairstyling .
yes , hairstyling -- i insist on that .
for us moderns , virtuoso technique is used to create imaginary worlds in fiction and in movies , to express intense emotions with music , painting and dance .
but still , one fundamental trait of the ancestral personality persists in our aesthetic cravings : the beauty we find in skilled performances .
from lascaux to the louvre to carnegie hall , human beings have a permanent innate taste for virtuoso displays in the arts .
we find beauty in something done well .
so the next time you pass a jewelry shop window displaying a beautifully cut teardrop-shaped stone , don 't be so sure it 's just your culture telling you that that sparkling jewel is beautiful .
your distant ancestors loved that shape and found beauty in the skill needed to make it , even before they could put their love into words .
is beauty in the eye of the beholder ?
no , it 's deep in our minds .
it 's a gift handed down from the intelligent skills and rich emotional lives of our most ancient ancestors .
our powerful reaction to images , to the expression of emotion in art , to the beauty of music , to the night sky , will be with us and our descendants for as long as the human race exists .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / dennis _ hong _ making _ a _ car _ for _ blind _ drivers.html
using robotics , laser rangefinders , gps and smart feedback tools , dennis hong is building a car for drivers who are blind . it 's not a " self-driving " car , he 's careful to note , but a car in which a non-sighted driver can determine speed , proximity and route -- and drive independently .
design , technology , transportation
1158
dennis hong : making a car for blind drivers
many believe driving is an activity solely reserved for those who can see .
a blind person driving a vehicle safely and independently was thought to be an impossible task , until now .
hello , my name is dennis hong , and we 're bringing freedom and independence to the blind by building a vehicle for the visually impaired .
so before i talk about this car for the blind , let me briefly tell you about another project that i worked on called the darpa urban challenge .
now this was about building a robotic car that can drive itself .
you press start , nobody touches anything , and it can reach its destination fully autonomously .
so in 2007 , our team won half a million dollars by placing third place in this competition .
so about that time , the national federation of the blind , or nfb , challenged the research committee about who can develop a car that lets a blind person drive safely and independently .
we decided to give it a try ,
because we thought , " hey , how hard could it be ? "
we have already an autonomous vehicle .
we just put a blind person in it and we 're done , right ?
we couldn 't have been more wrong .
what nfb wanted was not a vehicle that can drive a blind person around , but a vehicle where a blind person can make active decisions and drive .
so we had to throw everything out the window and start from scratch .
so to test this crazy idea , we developed a small dune buggy prototype vehicle to test the feasibility .
and in the summer of 2009 , we invited dozens of blind youth from all over the country and gave them a chance to take it for a spin .
it was an absolutely amazing experience .
but the problem with this car was it was designed to only be driven in a very controlled environment , in a flat , closed-off parking lot -- even the lanes defined by red traffic cones .
so with this success , we decided to take the next big step , to develop a real car that can be driven on real roads .
so how does it work ?
well , it 's a rather complex system , but let me try to explain it , maybe simplify it .
so we have three steps .
we have perception , computation and non-visual interfaces .
now obviously the driver cannot see , so the system needs to perceive the environment and gather information for the driver .
for that , we use an initial measurement unit .
so it measures acceleration , angular acceleration -- like a human ear , inner ear .
we fuse that information with a gps unit to get an estimate of the location of the car .
we also use two cameras to detect the lanes of the road .
and we also use three laser range finders .
the lasers scan the environment to detect obstacles -- a car approaching from the front , the back and also any obstacles that run into the roads , any obstacles around the vehicle .
so all this vast amount of information is then fed into the computer , and the computer can do two things .
one is , first of all , process this information to have an understanding of the environment -- these are the lanes of the road , there 's the obstacles -- and convey this information to the driver .
the system is also smart enough to figure out the safest way to operate the car .
so we can also generate instructions on how to operate the controls of the vehicle .
but the problem is this : how do we convey this information and instructions to a person who cannot see fast enough and accurate enough so he can drive ?
so for this , we developed many different types of non-visual user interface technology .
so starting from a three-dimensional ping sound system , a vibrating vest , a click wheel with voice commands , a leg strip , even a shoe that applies pressure to the foot .
but today we 're going to talk about three of these non-visual user interfaces .
now the first interface is called a drivegrip .
so these are a pair of gloves , and it has vibrating elements on the knuckle part so you can convey instructions about how to steer -- the direction and the intensity .
another device is called speedstrip .
so this is a chair -- as a matter of fact , it 's actually a massage chair .
we gut it out , and we rearrange the vibrating elements in different patterns ,
and we actuate them to convey information about the speed , and also instructions how to use the gas and the brake pedal .
so over here , you can see how the computer understands the environment ,
and because you cannot see the vibration , we actually put red led 's on the driver so that you can see what 's happening .
this is the sensory data , and that data is transferred to the devices through the computer .
so these two devices , drivegrip and speedstrip , are very effective .
but the problem is these are instructional cue devices .
so this is not really freedom , right ?
the computer tells you how to drive -- turn left , turn right , speed up , stop .
we call this the " backseat-driver problem . "
so we 're moving away from the instructional cue devices , and we 're now focusing more on the informational devices .
a good example for this informational non-visual user interface is called airpix .
so think of it as a monitor for the blind .
so it 's a small tablet , has many holes in it , and compressed air comes out , so it can actually draw images .
so even though you are blind , you can put your hand over it , you can see the lanes of the road and obstacles .
actually , you can also change the frequency of the air coming out and possibly the temperature .
so it 's actually a multi-dimensional user interface .
so here you can see the left camera , the right camera from the vehicle and how the computer interprets that and sends that information to the airpix .
for this , we 're showing a simulator , a blind person driving using the airpix .
this simulator was also very useful for training the blind drivers and also quickly testing different types of ideas for different types of non-visual user interfaces .
so basically that 's how it works .
so just a month ago , on january 29th , we unveiled this vehicle for the very first time to the public at the world-famous daytona international speedway during the rolex 24 racing event .
we also had some surprises . let 's take a look .
announcer : this is an historic day in january .
he 's coming up to the grandstand , fellow federationists . there 's the grandstand now .
and he 's [ unclear ] following that van that 's out in front of him .
well there comes the first box .
now let 's see if mark avoids it .
he does . he passes it on the right .
third box is out . the fourth box is out .
and he 's perfectly making his way between the two .
he 's closing in on the van to make the moving pass .
well this is what it 's all about , this kind of dynamic display of audacity and ingenuity .
he 's approaching the end of the run , makes his way between the barrels that are set up there .
dennis hong : i 'm so happy for you .
mark 's going to give me a ride back to the hotel .
mark riccobono : yes .
dh : so since we started this project , we 've been getting hundreds of letters , emails , phone calls from people from all around the world .
letters thanking us , but sometimes you also get funny letters like this one : " now i understand why there is braille on a drive-up atm machine . "
but sometimes -- but sometimes i also do get -- i wouldn 't call it hate mail -- but letters of really strong concern : " dr. hong , are you insane , trying to put blind people on the road ?
you must be out of your mind . "
but this vehicle is a prototype vehicle , and it 's not going to be on the road until it 's proven as safe as , or safer than , today 's vehicle .
and i truly believe that this can happen .
but still , will the society , would they accept such a radical idea ?
how are we going to handle insurance ?
how are we going to issue driver 's licenses ?
there 's many of these different kinds of hurdles besides technology challenges that we need to address before this becomes a reality .
of course , the main goal of this project is to develop a car for the blind .
but potentially more important than this is the tremendous value of the spin-off technology that can come from this project .
the sensors that are used can see through the dark , the fog and rain .
and together with this new type of interfaces , we can use these technologies and apply them to safer cars for sighted people .
or for the blind , everyday home appliances -- in the educational setting , in the office setting .
just imagine , in a classroom a teacher writes on the blackboard and a blind student can see what 's written and read using these non-visual interfaces .
this is priceless .
so today , the things i 've showed you today , is just the beginning .
thank you very much .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / thomas _ barnett _ draws _ a _ new _ map _ for _ peace.html
in this bracingly honest talk , international security strategist thomas barnett outlines a post-cold war solution for the foundering u.s. military that is both sensible and breathtaking in its simplicity : break it in two .
culture , global issues , military , peace , technology , war
33
thomas barnett draws a new map for peace
i get asked a lot what the difference between my work is and typical pentagon long-range strategic planners .
and the answer i like to offer is what they typically do is they think about the future of wars in the context of war .
and what i 've spent 15 years doing in this business -- and it 's taken me almost 14 to figure it out -- is i think about the future of wars in the context of everything else .
so i tend to specialize on the scene between war and peace .
the material i 'm going to show you is one idea from a book
with a lot of ideas .
it 's the one that takes me around the world right now interacting with foreign militaries quite a bit .
the material was generated in two years of work i did for the secretary of defense , thinking about a new national grand strategy for the united states .
i 'm going to present a problem and try to give you an answer .
here 's my favorite bonehead concept from the 1990s in the pentagon : the theory of anti-access , area-denial asymmetrical strategies .
why do we call it that ?
because it 's got all those a 's lined up i guess .
this is gobbledygook for if the united states fights somebody we 're going to be huge . they 're going to be small .
and if they try to fight us in the traditional , straight-up manner we 're going to kick their ass , which is why people don 't try to do that any more .
i met the last air force general who had actually shot down an enemy plane in combat .
he 's now a one star general .
that 's how distant we are from even meeting an air force willing to fly against ours .
so that overmatched capability creates problems -- catastrophic successes the white house calls them .
and we 're trying to figure that out , because it is an amazing capability .
the question is , what 's the good you can do with it ?
ok ?
the theory of anti-access , area-denial asymmetrical strategies -- gobbledygook that we sell to congress , because if we just told them we can kick anybody 's asses they wouldn 't buy us all the stuff we want .
so we say , area-denial , anti-access asymmetrical strategies and their eyes glaze over .
and they say , " will you build it in my district ? "
here 's my parody and it ain 't much of one .
let 's talk about a battle space . i don 't know , taiwan straits 2025 .
let 's talk about an enemy embedded within that battle space .
i don 't know , the million man swim .
the united states has to access that battle space instantaneously .
they throw up anti-access , area-denial asymmetrical strategies .
a banana peel on the tarmac .
trojan horses on our computer networks reveal all our achilles ' heels instantly .
we say , " china , it 's yours . "
prometheus approach , largely a geographic definition , focuses almost exclusively on the start of conflict .
we field the first-half team in a league that insists on keeping score until the end of the game .
that 's the problem .
we can run the score up against anybody , and then get our asses kicked in the second half -- what they call fourth generation warfare .
here 's the way i like to describe it instead .
there is no battle space the u.s. military cannot access .
they said we couldn 't do afghanistan . we did it with ease .
they said we couldn 't do iraq .
we did it with 150 combat casualties in six weeks .
we did it so fast we weren 't prepared for their collapse .
there is nobody we can 't take down .
the question is , what do you do with the power ?
so there 's no trouble accessing battle spaces .
what we have trouble accessing is the transition space that must naturally follow , and creating the peace space that allows us to move on .
problem is , the defense department over here beats the hell out of you .
the state department over here says , " come on boy , i know you can make it . " and that poor country runs off that ledge , does that cartoon thing and then drops .
this is not about overwhelming force , but proportional force .
it 's about non-lethal technologies , because if you fire real ammo into a crowd of women and children rioting you 're going to lose friends very quickly .
this is not about projecting power , but about staying power , which is about legitimacy with the locals .
who do you access in this transition space ?
you have to create internal partners . you have to access coalition partners .
we asked the indians for 17,000 peace keepers .
i know their senior leadership , they wanted to give it to us .
but they said to us , " you know what ?
in that transition space you 're mostly hat not enough cattle .
we don 't think you can pull it off , we 're not going to give you our 17,000 peace keepers for fodder . "
we asked the russians for 40,000 .
they said no .
i was in china in august , i said , " you should have 50,000 peace keepers in iraq . it 's your oil , not ours . " which is the truth . it 's their oil .
and the chinese said to me , " dr. barnett , you 're absolutely right .
in a perfect world we 'd have 50,000 there .
but it 's not a perfect world , and your administration isn 't getting us any closer . " but we have trouble accessing our outcomes .
we lucked out , frankly , on the selection .
we face different opponents across these three .
and it 's time to start admitting you can 't ask the same 19-year-old to do it all , day in and day out .
it 's just too damn hard .
we have an unparalleled capacity to wage war .
we don 't do the everything else so well .
frankly , we do it better than anybody and we still suck at it .
we have a brilliant secretary of war .
we don 't have a secretary of everything else .
because if we did , that guy would be in front of the senate , still testifying over abu ghraib .
the problem is he doesn 't exist .
there is no secretary of everything else .
i think we have an unparalleled capacity to wage war .
i call that the leviathan force .
what we need to build is a force for the everything else . i call them the system administrators .
what i think this really represents is lack of an a to z rule set for the world as a whole for processing politically bankrupt states .
we have one for processing economically bankrupt states .
it 's the imf sovereign bankruptcy plan , ok ?
we argue about it every time we use it .
argentina just went through it , broke a lot of rules .
they got out on the far end , we said , " fine , don 't worry about it . "
it 's transparent . a certain amount of certainty gives the sense of a non-zero outcome .
we don 't have one for processing politically bankrupt states that , frankly , everybody wants gone .
like saddam , like mugabe , like kim jong-il -- people who kill in hundreds of thousands or millions .
like the 250,000 dead so far in sudan .
what would an a to z system look like ?
i 'm going to distinguish between what i call front half and back half .
and let 's call this red line , i don 't know , mission accomplished .
what we have extant right now , at the beginning of this system , is the u.n. security council as a grand jury .
what can they do ?
they can indict your ass .
they can debate it . they can write it on a piece of paper . they can put it in an envelope and mail it to you ,
and then say in no uncertain terms , " please cut that out . "
that gets you about four million dead in central africa over the 1990s .
that gets you 250,000 dead in the sudan in the last 15 months .
everybody 's got to answer their grandchildren some day what you did about the holocaust in africa ,
and you better have an answer .
we don 't have anything to translate that will into action .
what we do have is the u.s.-enabled leviathan force that says , " you want me to take that guy down ? i 'll take that guy down .
i 'll do it on tuesday . it will cost you 20 billion dollars . " but here 's the deal .
as soon as i can 't find anybody else to air out , i leave the scene immediately .
that 's called the powell doctrine .
way downstream we have the international criminal court .
they love to put them on trial . they 've got milosevic right now .
what are we missing ?
a functioning executive that will translate will into action ,
because we don 't have it . every time we lead one of these efforts we have to whip ourselves into this imminent threat thing .
we haven 't faced an imminent threat since the cuban missile crisis in 1962 .
but we use this language from a bygone era to scare ourselves into doing something because we 're a democracy and that 's what it takes .
and if that doesn 't work we scream , " he 's got a gun ! " just as we rush in .
and then we look over the body and we find an old cigarette lighter and we say , " jesus , it was dark . " do you want to do it , france ?
france says , " no , but i do like to criticize you after the fact . " what we need downstream is a great power enabled -- what i call that sys admin force .
we should have had 250,000 troops streaming into iraq on the heels of that leviathan sweeping towards baghdad .
what do you get then ?
no looting , no military disappearing , no arms disappearing , no ammo disappearing , no muqtada al-sadr -- i 'm wrecking his bones -- no insurgency .
talk to anybody who was over there in the first six months .
we had six months to feel the lob , to get the job done , and we dicked around for six months .
and then they turned on us .
why ? because they just got fed up .
they saw what we did to saddam .
they said , " you 're that powerful , you can resurrect this country .
you 're america . " what we need is an international reconstruction fund --
sebastian mallaby , washington post , great idea .
model on the imf .
instead of passing the hat each time , ok ?
where are we going to find this guy ? g20 , that 's easy .
check out their agenda since 9 / 11 .
all security dominated .
they 're going to decide up front how the money gets spent
just like in the imf .
you vote according to how much money you put in the kitty .
here 's my challenge to the defense department .
you 've got to build this force . you 've got to seed this force . you 've got to track coalition partners . create a record of success .
you will get this model .
you tell me it 's too hard to do .
i 'll walk this dog right through that six part series on the balkans .
we did it just like that .
i 'm talking about regularizing it , making it transparent .
would you like mugabe gone ?
would you like kim jong-il , who 's killed about two million people , would you like him gone ?
would you like a better system ?
this is why it matters to the military .
they 've been experiencing an identity crisis since the end of the cold war .
i 'm not talking about the difference between reality and desire , which i can do because i 'm not inside the beltway .
i 'm talking about the 1990s .
the berlin wall falls . we do desert storm .
the split starts to emerge between those in the military who see a future they can live with , and those who see a future that starts to scare them ,
like the u.s. submarine community , which watches the soviet navy disappear overnight .
ah !
so they start moving from reality towards desire and they create their own special language to describe their voyage of self-discovery and self-actualization .
the problem is you need a big , sexy opponent to fight against .
and if you can 't find one you 've got to make one up .
china , all grown up , going to be a looker !
the rest of the military got dragged down into the muck across the 1990s
and they developed this very derisive term to describe it : military operations other than war .
i ask you , who joins the military to do things other than war ?
actually , most of them .
jessica lynch never planned on shooting back .
most of them don 't pick up a rifle .
i maintain this is code inside the army for , " we don 't want to do this . "
they spent the 1990s working the messy scene between globalized parts of the world
what i call the core and the gap .
the clinton administration wasn 't interested in running this .
for eight years , after screwing up the relationship on day one -- inauguration day with gays in the military -- which was deft .
so we were home alone for eight years .
and what did we do home alone ?
we bought one military and we operated another .
it 's like the guy who goes to the doctor and says , " doctor , it hurts when i do this . " the doctor says , " stop doing that you idiot . " i used to give this brief inside the pentagon in the early 1990s .
i 'd say , " you 're buying one military and you 're operating another ,
and eventually it 's going to hurt . it 's wrong .
bad pentagon , bad ! " and they 'd say , " dr. barnett , you are so right .
can you come back next year and remind us again ? " some people say 9 / 11 heals the rift -- jerks the long-term transformation gurus out of their 30,000 foot view of history , drags them down in to the muck and says , " you want a networked opponent ?
i 've got one , he 's everywhere , go find him . "
it elevates mootw -- how we pronounce that acronym -- from crap to grand strategy , because that 's how you 're going to shrink that gap .
some people put these two things together and they call it empire , which i think is a boneheaded concept .
empire is about the enforcement of not just minimal rule sets , which you cannot do , but maximum rule sets which you must do .
it 's not our system of governance .
never how we 've sought to interact with the outside world .
i prefer that phrase system administration .
we enforce the minimal rule sets for maintaining connectivity to the global economy .
certain bad things you cannot do .
how this impacts the way we think about the future of war .
this is a concept which gets me vilified throughout the pentagon .
it makes me very popular as well .
everybody 's got an opinion .
going back to the beginning of our country -- historically , defenses meant protection of the homeland .
security has meant everything else .
written into our constitution , two different forces , two different functions .
raise an army when you need it , and maintain a navy for day-to-day connectivity .
a department of war , a department of everything else .
a big stick , a baton stick .
can of whup ass , the networking force .
in 1947 we merged these two things together in the defense department .
our long-term rationale becomes , we 're involved in a hair trigger stand off with the soviets .
to attack america is to risk blowing up the world .
we connected national security to international security with about a seven minute time delay .
that 's not our problem now .
they can kill three million in chicago tomorrow and we don 't go to the mattresses with nukes .
that 's the scary part .
the question is how do we reconnect american national security with global security to make the world a lot more comfortable , and to embed and contextualize our employment of force around the planet ?
what 's happened since is that bifurcation i described .
we talked about this going all the way back to the end of the cold war .
let 's have a department of war , and a department of something else .
some people say , " hell , 9 / 11 did it for you . "
now we 've got a home game and an away game .
the department of homeland security is a strategic feel good measure .
it 's going to be the department of agriculture for the 21st century .
tsa -- thousands standing around .
just be grateful robert reed didn 't shove that bomb up his ass .
because we 'd all be gay then .
i supported the war in iraq .
he was a bad guy with multiple priors .
it 's not like we had to find him actually killing somebody live to arrest him .
i knew we 'd kick ass in the war with the leviathan force .
i knew we 'd have a hard time with what followed .
but i know this organization doesn 't change until it experiences failure .
what do i mean by these two different forces ?
this is the hobbesian force .
i love this force . i don 't want to see it go . that plus nukes rules out great power war .
this is the military the rest of the world wants us to build .
it 's why i travel all over the world talking to foreign militaries .
what does this mean ?
it means you 've got to stop pretending you can do these two very disparate skill sets with the same 19-year-old .
switching back , morning , afternoon , evening , morning , afternoon , evening .
handing out aid , shooting back , handing out aid , shooting back .
it 's too much .
the 19-year-olds get tired from the switching , ok ?
that force on the left , you can train a 19-year-old to do that .
that force on the right is more like a 40-year-old cop .
you need the experience .
what does this mean in terms of operations ?
the rule is going to be this .
that sys admin force is the force that never comes home , does most of your work .
you break out that leviathan force only every so often .
but here 's the promise you make to the american public , to your own people , to the world .
you break out that leviathan force , you promise , you guarantee that you 're going to mount one hell of a -- immediately -- follow-on sys admin effort .
don 't plan for the war unless you plan to win the peace .
other differences . leviathan traditional partners , they all look like the brits and their former colonies .
including us , i would remind you .
the rest -- wider array of partners .
international organizations , non-governmental organizations , private voluntary organizations , contractors .
you 're not going to get away from that .
leviathan force , it 's all about joint operations between the military services .
we 're done with that .
what we need to do is inter-agency operations , which frankly condi rice was in charge of .
and i 'm amazed nobody asked her that question when she was confirmed .
i call the leviathan force your dad 's military .
i like them young , male , unmarried , slightly pissed off .
i call the sys admin force your mom 's military .
it 's everything the man 's military hates .
gender balanced much more , older , educated , married with children .
the force on the left , up or out .
the force on the right , in and out .
the force on the left respects posse comitatus restrictions on the use of force inside the u.s .
the force on the right 's going to obliterate it .
that 's where the national guard 's going to be .
the force on the left is never coming under the purview of the international criminal court .
sys admin force has to .
different definitions of network centricity .
one takes down networks , one puts them up .
and you 've got to wage war here in such a way to facilitate that .
do we need a bigger budget ?
do we need a draft to pull this off ?
absolutely not .
i 've been told by the revolution of military affairs crowd for years , we can do it faster , cheaper , smaller , just as lethal .
i say , " great , i 'm going to take the sys admin budget out of your hide . " here 's the larger point .
you 're going to build the sys admin force inside the u.s. military first .
but ultimately you 're going to civilianize it , probably two thirds .
inter agency-ize it , internationalize it .
so yes , it begins inside the pentagon , but over time it 's going to cross that river .
i have been to the mountain top . i can see the future .
i may not live long enough to get you there , but it 's going to happen .
we 're going to have a department of something else between war and peace .
last slide .
who gets custody of the kids ?
this is where the marines in the audience get kind of tense .
and this is when they think about beating the crap out of me after the talk .
read max boon .
this is the history of the marines -- small wars , small arms .
the marines are like my west highland terrier .
they get up every morning , they want to dig a hole and they want to kill something .
i don 't want my marines handing out aid . i want them to be marines .
that 's what keeps the sys admin force from being a pussy force .
it keeps it from being the u.n .
you shoot at these people the marines are going to come over and kill you .
department of navy , strategic subs go this way , surface combatants are over there , and the news is they may actually be that small .
i call it the smart dust navy .
i tell young officers , " you may command 500 ships in your career . bad news is they may not have anybody on them . "
carriers go both ways because they 're a swing asset .
you 'll see the pattern -- airborne , just like carriers .
armor goes this way .
here 's the dirty secret of the air force , you can win by bombing .
but you need lots of these guys on the ground to win the peace .
shinseki was right with the argument .
air force , strategic airlift goes both ways .
bombers , fighters go over here .
special operations command down at tampa .
trigger-pullers go this way .
civil affairs , that bastard child , comes over here .
return to the army .
the point about the trigger-pullers and special operations command .
no off season , these guys are always active .
they drop in , do their business , disappear .
see me now . don 't talk about it later .
i was never here .
the world is my playground .
i want to keep trigger-pullers trigger-happy .
i want the rules to be as loose as possible .
because when the thing gets prevented in chicago with the three million dead that perverts our political system beyond all recognition , these are the guys who are going to kill them first .
so it 's better off to have them make some mistakes along the way than to see that .
reserve component -- national guard reserves overwhelmingly sys admin .
how are you going to get them to work for this force ?
most firemen in this country do it for free .
this is not about money .
this is about being up front with these guys and gals .
last point , intelligence community -- the muscle and the defense agencies go this way .
what should be the cia , open , analytical , open source should come over here .
the information you need to do this is not secret .
it 's not secret .
read that great piece in the new yorker about how our echo boomers , 19 to 25 , over in iraq taught each other how to do sys admin work , over the internet in chat rooms .
they said , " al qaeda could be listening . " they said , " well , jesus , they already know this stuff . " take a gift in the left hand .
these are the sunglasses that don 't scare people , simple stuff .
censors and transparency , the overheads go in both directions .
thanks .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / freeman _ dyson _ says _ let _ s _ look _ for _ life _ in _ the _ outer _ solar _ system.html
physicist freeman dyson suggests that we start looking for life on the moons of jupiter and out past neptune , in the kuiper belt and the oort cloud . he talks about what such life would be like -- and how we might find it .
astronomy , biotech , exploration , physics , science , technology , universe
306
freeman dyson says : let 's look for life in the outer solar system
how will we be remembered in 200 years ?
i happen to live in a little town , princeton , in new jersey , which every year celebrates the great event in princeton history : the battle of princeton , which was , in fact , a very important battle .
it was the first battle that george washington won , in fact , and was pretty much of a turning point in the war of independence .
it happened 225 years ago .
it was actually a terrible disaster for princeton .
the town was burned down ; it was in the middle of winter , and it was a very , very severe winter .
and about a quarter of all the people in princeton died that winter from hunger and cold , but nobody remembers that .
what they remember is , of course , the great triumph , that the brits were beaten , and we won , and that the country was born .
and so i agree very emphatically that the pain of childbirth is not remembered . it 's the child that 's remembered .
and that 's what we 're going through at this time .
i wanted to just talk for one minute about the future of biotechnology ,
because i think i know very little about that -- i 'm not a biologist -- so everything i know about it can be said in one minute .
what i 'm saying is that we should follow the model that has been so successful with the electronic industry , that what really turned computers into a great success , in the world as a whole , is toys . as soon as computers became toys , when kids could come home and play with them , then the industry really took off . and that has to happen with biotech .
there 's a huge -- -- there 's a huge community of people in the world who are practical biologists , who are dog breeders , pigeon breeders , orchid breeders , rose breeders , people who handle biology with their hands , and who are dedicated to producing beautiful things , beautiful creatures , plants , animals , pets . these people will be empowered with biotech , and that will be an enormous positive step to acceptance of biotechnology .
that will blow away a lot of the opposition .
when people have this technology in their hands , you have a do-it-yourself biotech kit , grow your own --
grow your dog , grow your own cat .
just buy the software , you design it . i won 't say anymore , you can take it on from there . it 's going to happen , and i think it has to happen before the technology becomes natural , becomes part of the human condition , something that everybody 's familiar with and everybody accepts .
so , let 's leave that aside .
i want to talk about something quite different , which is what i know about , and that is astronomy .
and i 'm interested in searching for life in the universe .
and it 's open to us to introduce a new way of doing that , and that 's what i 'll talk about for 10 minutes , or whatever the time remains .
the important fact is , that most of the real estate that 's accessible to us -- i 'm not talking about the stars , i 'm talking about the solar system , the stuff that 's within reach for spacecraft and within reach of our earthbound telescopes --
most of the real estate is very cold and very far from the sun .
if you look at the solar system , as we know it today , it has a few planets close to the sun . that 's where we live .
it has a fairly substantial number of asteroids between the orbit of the earth out through -- to the orbit of jupiter .
the asteroids are a substantial amount of real estate , but not very large . and it 's not very promising for life , since most of it consists of rock and metal , mostly rock .
it 's not only cold , but very dry .
so the asteroids we don 't have much hope for .
there stand some interesting places a little further out : the moons of jupiter and saturn .
particularly , there 's a place called europa , which is -- europa is one of the moons of jupiter , where we see a very level ice surface , which looks as if it 's floating on top of an ocean .
so , we believe that on europa there is , in fact , a deep ocean .
and that makes it extraordinarily interesting as a place to explore .
ocean -- probably the most likely place for life to originate , just as it originated on the earth . so we would love to explore europa , to go down through the ice , find out who is swimming around in the ocean , whether there are fish or seaweed or sea monsters -- whatever there may be that 's exciting --- or cephalopods .
but that 's hard to do . unfortunately , the ice is thick .
we don 't know just how thick it is , probably miles thick , so it 's very expensive and very difficult to go down there -- send down your submarine or whatever it is -- and explore .
that 's something we don 't yet know how to do .
there are plans to do it , but it 's hard .
go out a bit further , you 'll find that beyond the orbit of neptune , way out , far from the sun , that 's where the real estate really begins .
you 'll find millions or trillions or billions of objects which , in what we call the kuiper belt or the oort cloud -- these are clouds of small objects which appear as comets when they fall close to the sun . mostly , they just live out there in the cold of the outer solar system , but they are biologically very interesting indeed , because they consist primarily of ice with other minerals , which are just the right ones for developing life .
so if life could be established out there , it would have all the essentials -- chemistry and sunlight -- everything that 's needed .
so , what i 'm proposing is that there is where we should be looking for life , rather than on mars , although mars is , of course , also a very promising and interesting place .
but we can look outside , very cheaply and in a simple fashion .
and that 's what i 'm going to talk about .
there is a -- imagine that life originated on europa , and it was sitting in the ocean for billions of years .
it 's quite likely that it would move out of the ocean onto the surface , just as it did on the earth .
staying in the ocean and evolving in the ocean for 2 billion years , finally came out onto the land . and then of course it had great -- much greater freedom , and a much greater variety of creatures developed on the land than had ever been possible in the ocean .
and the step from the ocean to the land was not easy , but it happened .
now , if life had originated on europa in the ocean , it could also have moved out onto the surface .
there wouldn 't have been any air there -- it 's a vacuum .
it is out in the cold , but it still could have come .
you can imagine that the plants growing up like kelp through cracks in the ice , growing on the surface .
what would they need in order to grow on the surface ?
they 'd need , first of all , to have a thick skin to protect themselves from losing water through the skin .
so they would have to have something like a reptilian skin .
but better -- what is more important is that they would have to concentrate sunlight .
the sunlight in jupiter , on the satellites of jupiter , is 25 times fainter than it is here , since jupiter is five times as far from the sun .
so they would have to have -- these creatures , which i call sunflowers , which i imagine living on the surface of europa , would have to have either lenses or mirrors to concentrate sunlight , so they could keep themselves warm on the surface .
otherwise , they would be at a temperature of minus 150 , which is certainly not favorable for developing life , at least of the kind we know .
but if they just simply could grow , like leaves , little lenses and mirrors to concentrate sunlight , then they could keep warm on the surface . they could enjoy all the benefits of the sunlight and have roots going down into the ocean ; life then could flourish much more .
so , why not look ? of course , it 's not very likely that there 's life on the surface of europa .
none of these things is likely , but my , my philosophy is , look for what 's detectable , not for what 's probable .
there 's a long history in astronomy of unlikely things turning out to be there . and i mean , the finest example of that was radio astronomy as a whole .
this was -- originally , when radio astronomy began , mr. jansky , at the bell labs , detected radio waves coming from the sky . and the regular astronomers were scornful about this .
they said , " it 's all right , you can detect radio waves from the sun , but the sun is the only object in the universe that 's close enough and bright enough actually to be detectable . you can easily calculate that radio waves from the sun are fairly faint , and everything else in the universe is millions of times further away , so it certainly will not be detectable .
so there 's no point in looking . "
and that , of course , that set back the progress of radio astronomy by about 20 years .
since there was nothing there , you might as well not look .
well , of course , as soon as anybody did look , which was after about 20 years , when radio astronomy really took off . because it turned out the universe is absolutely full of all kinds of wonderful things radiating in the radio spectrum , much brighter than the sun .
so , the same thing could be true for this kind of life , which i 'm talking about , on cold objects : that it could in fact be very abundant all over the universe , and it 's not been detected just because we haven 't taken the trouble to look .
so , the last thing i want to talk about is how to detect it .
there is something called pit lamping . that 's the phrase which i learned from my son george , who is there in the audience .
you take -- that 's a canadian expression . if you happen to want to hunt animals at night , you take a miner 's lamp , which is a pit lamp .
you strap it onto your forehead , so you can see the reflection in the eyes of the animal . so , if you go out at night , you shine a flashlight , the animals are bright .
you see the red glow in their eyes , which is the reflection of the flashlight .
and then , if you 're one of these unsporting characters , you shoot the animals and take them home .
and of course , that spoils the game for the other hunters who hunt in the daytime ,
so in canada that 's illegal . in new zealand , it 's legal , because the new zealand farmers use this as a way of getting rid of rabbits , because the rabbits compete with the sheep in new zealand .
so , the farmers go out at night with heavily armed jeeps , and shine the headlights , and anything that doesn 't look like a sheep , you shoot .
so i have proposed to apply the same trick to looking for life in the universe .
that if these creatures who are living on cold surfaces -- either on europa , or further out , anywhere where you can live on a cold surface -- those creatures must be provided with reflectors .
in order to concentrate sunlight , they have to have lenses and mirrors -- in order to keep themselves warm .
and then , when you shine sunlight at them , the sunlight will be reflected back , just as it is in the eyes of an animal .
so these creatures will be bright against the cold surroundings .
and the further out you go in this , away from the sun , the more powerful this reflection will be . so actually , this method of hunting for life gets stronger and stronger as you go further away , because the optical reflectors have to be more powerful so the reflected light shines out even more in contrast against the dark background .
so as you go further away from the sun , this becomes more and more powerful .
so , in fact , you can look for these creatures with telescopes from the earth .
why aren 't we doing it ? simply because nobody thought of it yet .
but i hope that we shall look , and with any -- we probably won 't find anything ,
none of these speculations may have any basis in fact . but still , it 's a good chance . and of course , if it happens , it will transform our view of life altogether .
because it means that -- the way life can live out there ,
it has enormous advantages as compared with living on a planet .
it 's extremely hard to move from one planet to another .
we 're having great difficulties at the moment and any creatures that live on a planet are pretty well stuck .
especially if you breathe air , it 's very hard to get from planet a to planet b , because there 's no air in between . but if you breathe air -- -- you 're dead -- -- as soon as you 're off the planet , unless you have a spaceship .
but if you live in a vacuum , if you live on the surface of one of these objects , say , in the kuiper belt , this -- an object like pluto , or one of the smaller objects in the neighborhood of pluto , and you happened -- if you 're living on the surface there , and you get knocked off the surface by a collision , then it doesn 't change anything all that much . you still are on a piece of ice , you can still have sunlight and you can still survive while you 're traveling from one place to another .
and then if you run into another object , you can stay there and colonize the other object . so life will spread , then , from one object to another . so if it exists at all in the kuiper belt , it 's likely to be very widespread . and you will have then a great competition amongst species -- darwinian evolution -- so there 'll be a huge advantage to the species which is able to jump from one place to another without having to wait for a collision . and there 'll be advantages for spreading out long , sort of kelp-like forest of vegetation .
i call these creatures sunflowers .
they look like , maybe like sunflowers .
they have to be all the time pointing toward the sun , and they will be able to spread out in space , because gravity on these objects is weak .
so they can collect sunlight from a big area .
so they will , in fact , be quite easy for us to detect .
so , i hope in the next 10 years , we 'll find these creatures , and then , of course , our whole view of life in the universe will change .
if we don 't find them , then we can create them ourselves .
that 's another wonderful opportunity that 's opening .
we can -- as soon as we have a little bit more understanding of genetic engineering , one of the things you can do with your take-it-home , do-it-yourself genetic engineering kit -- -- is to design a creature that can live on a cold satellite , a place like europa , so we could colonize europa with our own creatures .
that would be a fun thing to do .
in the long run , of course , it would also make it possible for us to move out there .
what 's going to happen in the end , it 's not going to be just humans colonizing space , it 's going to be life moving out from the earth ,
moving it into its kingdom . and the kingdom of life , of course , is going to be the universe . and if life is already there , it makes it much more exciting , in the short run . but in the long run , if there 's no life there , we create it ourselves .
we transform the universe into something much more rich and beautiful than it is today .
so again , we have a big and wonderful future to look forward .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / yves _ behar _ on _ designing _ objects _ that _ tell _ stories.html
designer yves behar digs up his creative roots to discuss some of the iconic objects he 's created . then he turns to the witty , surprising , elegant objects he 's working on now -- including the " $ 100 laptop . "
one laptop per child , business , computers , creativity , design , sex , society
266
yves behar on designing objects that tell stories
being a child , and sort of crawling around the house , i remember these turkish carpets ,
and there were these scenes , these battle scenes , these love scenes .
i mean , look , this animal is trying to fight back this spear from this soldier .
and my mom took these pictures actually , last week , of our carpets , and i remember this to this day .
there was another object , this sort of towering piece of furniture with creatures and gargoyles and nudity -- pretty scary stuff , when you 're a little kid .
what i remember today from this is that objects tell stories , so storytelling has been a really strong influence in my work .
and then there was another influence .
i was a teenager , and at 15 or 16 , i guess like all teenagers , we want to just do what we love and what we believe in .
and so , i fused together the two things i loved the most , which was skiing and windsurfing .
those are pretty good escapes from the drab weather in switzerland .
so , i created this compilation of the two : i took my skis and i took a board and i put a mast foot in there , and some foot straps , and some metal fins , and here i was , going really fast on frozen lakes .
it was really a death trap . i mean , it was incredible , it worked incredibly well , but it was really dangerous .
and i realized then i had to go to design school .
i mean , look at those graphics there .
so , i went to design school , and it was the early ' 90s when i finished . and i saw something extraordinary happening in silicon valley , so i wanted to be there , and i saw that the computer was coming into our homes ,
that it had to change in order to be with us in our homes .
and so i got myself a job and i was working for a consultancy , and we would get in to these meetings , and these managers would come in , and they would say , " well , what we 're going to do here is really important , you know . "
and they would give the projects code names , you know , mostly from " star wars , " actually : things like c3po , yoda , luke .
so , in anticipation , i would be this young designer in the back of the room , and i would raise my hand , and i would ask questions .
i mean , in retrospect , probably stupid questions , but things like , " what 's this caps lock key for ? "
or " what 's this num lock key for ? " you know , that thing ?
" you know , do people really use it ?
do they need it ? do they want it in their homes ? "
what i realized then is , they didn 't really want to change the legacy stuff ; they didn 't want to change the insides .
they were really looking for us , the designers , to create the skins , to put some pretty stuff outside of the box .
and i didn 't want to be a colorist .
it wasn 't what i wanted to do .
i didn 't want to be a stylist in this way .
and then i saw this quote : " advertising is the price companies pay for being unoriginal . "
so , i had to start on my own . so i moved to san francisco , and i started a little company , fuseproject .
and what i wanted to work on is important stuff .
and i wanted to really not just work on the skins , but i wanted to work on the entire human experience .
and so the first projects were sort of humble , but they took technology and maybe made it into things that people would use in a new way , and maybe finding some new functionality .
this is a watch we made for mini cooper , the car company , right when it launched , and it 's the first watch that has a display that switches from horizontal to vertical .
and that allows me to check my timer discretely , here , without bending my elbow .
and other projects , which were really about transformation , about matching the human need .
this is a little piece of furniture for an italian manufacturer , and it ships completely flat , and then it folds into a coffee table and a stool and whatnot .
and something a little bit more experimental : this is a light fixture for swarovski , and what it does is , it changes shape .
so , it goes from a circle , to a round , to a square , to a figure eight . and just by drawing on a little computer tablet , the entire light fixture adjusts to what shape you want .
and then finally , the leaf lamp for herman miller .
this is a pretty involved process ; it took us about four and a half years .
but i really was looking for creating a unique experience of light , a new experience of light .
so , we had to design both the light and the light bulb .
and that 's a unique opportunity , i would say , in design .
and the new experience i was looking for is giving the choice for the user to go from a warm , sort of glowing kind of mood light , all the way to a bright work light .
so , the light bulb actually does that .
it allows the person to switch , and to mix these two colorations .
and it 's done in a very simple way : one just touches the base of the light , and on one side , you can mix the brightness , and on the other , the coloration of the light .
so , all of these projects have a humanistic sense to them , and i think as designers we need to really think about how we can create a different relationship between our work and the world , whether it 's for business , or , as i 'm going to show , on some civic-type projects .
because i think everybody agrees that as designers we bring value to business , value to the users also , but i think it 's the values that we put into these projects that ultimately create the greater value .
and the values we bring can be about environmental issues , about sustainability , about lower power consumption .
you know , they can be about function and beauty ; they can be about business strategy .
but designers are really the glue that brings these things together .
so jawbone is a project that you 're familiar with , and it has a humanistic technology .
it feels your skin . it rests on your skin , and it knows when it is you 're talking .
and by knowing when it is you 're talking , it gets rid of the other noises that it knows about , which is the environmental noises .
but the other thing that is humanistic about jawbone is that we really decided to take out all the techie stuff , and all the nerdy stuff out of it , and try to make it as beautiful as we can .
i mean , think about it : the care we take in selecting sunglasses , or jewelry , or accessories is really important , so if it isn 't beautiful , it really doesn 't belong on your face .
and this is what we 're pursuing here .
but how we work on jawbone is really unique .
i want to point at something here , on the left .
this is the board , this is one of the things that goes inside that makes this technology work .
but this is the design process : there 's somebody changing the board , putting tracers on the board , changing the location of the ics , as the designers on the other side are doing the work .
so , it 's not about slapping skins , anymore , on a technology .
it 's really about designing from the inside out .
and then , on the other side of the room , the designers are making small adjustments , sketching , drawing by hand , putting it in the computer . and it 's what i call being design driven .
you know , there is some push and pull , but design is really helping define the whole experience from the inside out .
and then , of course , design is never done .
and this is -- the other new way that is unique in how we work is , because it 's never done , you have to do all this other stuff .
the packaging , and the website , and you need to continue to really touch the user , in many ways .
but how do you retain somebody , when it 's never done ?
and hosain rahman , the ceo of aliph jawbone , you know , really understands that you need a different structure .
so , in a way , the different structure is that we 're partners , it 's a partnership . we can continue to work and dedicate ourselves to this project , and then we also share in the rewards .
and here 's another project , another partnership-type approach .
this is called y water , and it 's this guy from los angeles , thomas arndt , austrian originally , who came to us , and all he wanted to do was to create a healthy drink , or an organic drink for his kids , to replace the high-sugar-content sodas that he 's trying to get them away from .
so , we worked on this bottle , and it 's completely symmetrical in every dimension .
and this allows the bottle to turn into a game .
the bottles connect together , and you can create different shapes , different forms .
thank you .
and then while we were doing this , the shape of the bottle upside down reminded us of a y , and then we thought , well these words , " why " and " why not , " are probably the most important words that kids ask .
so we called it y water . and so this is another place where it all comes together in the same room : the three-dimensional design , the ideas , the branding , it all becomes deeply connected .
and then the other thing about this project is , we bring intellectual property , we bring a marketing approach , we bring all this stuff , but i think , at the end of the day , what we bring is these values , and these values create a soul for the companies we work with .
and it 's especially rewarding when your design work becomes a creative endeavor , when others can be creative and do more with it .
here 's another project , which i think really emulates that .
this is the one laptop per child , the $ 100 laptop .
this picture is incredible .
in nigeria , people carry their most precious belongings on their heads .
this girl is going to school with a laptop on her head .
i mean , to me , it just means so much .
but when nicholas negroponte -- and he has spoken about this project a lot , he 's the founder of olpc -- came to us about two and a half years ago , there were some clear ideas .
he wanted to bring education and he wanted to bring technology , and those are pillars of his life , but also pillars of the mission of one laptop per child .
but the third pillar that he talked about was design .
and at the time , i wasn 't really working on computers .
i didn 't really want to , from the previous adventure .
but what he said was really significant , is that design was going to be why the kids were going to love this product ,
how we were going to make it low cost , robust . and plus , he said he was going to get rid of the caps lock key -- -- and the num lock key , too .
so , i was convinced . we designed it to be iconic , to look different . to look like it 's for a kid , but not like a toy .
and then the integration of all these great technologies , which you 've heard about , the wi-fi antennas that allow the kids to connect ; the screen , which you can read in sunlight ; the keyboard , which is made out of rubber , and it 's protected from the environment .
you know , all these great technologies really happened because of the passion and the olpc people and the engineers .
they fought the suppliers , they fought the manufacturers .
i mean , they fought like animals for this to remain they way it is .
and in a way , it is that will that makes projects like this one -- allows the process from not destroying the original idea .
and i think this is something really important .
so , now you get these pictures -- you get up in the morning , and you see the kids in nigeria and you see them in uruguay with their computers , and in mongolia .
and we went away from obviously the beige . i mean it 's colorful , it 's fun .
in fact , you can see each logo is a little bit different .
it 's because we were able to run , during the manufacturing process , 20 colors for the x and the o , which is the name of the computer , and by mixing them on the manufacturing floor , you get 20 times 20 : you get 400 different options there .
so , the lessons from seeing the kids using them in the developing world are incredible .
but this is my nephew , anthony , in switzerland , and he had the laptop for an afternoon , and i had to take it back . it was hard .
and it was a prototype . and a month and a half later , i come back to switzerland , and there he is playing with his own version .
like paper , paper and cardboard .
so , i 'm going to finish with one last project , and this is a little bit more of adult play .
some of you might have heard about the new york city condom .
it 's actually just launched , actually launched on valentine 's day , february 14 , about 10 days ago .
so , the department of health in new york came to us , and they needed a way to distribute 36 million condoms for free to the citizens of new york .
so a pretty big endeavor , and we worked on the dispensers . these are the dispensers . there 's this friendly shape .
it 's a little bit like designing a fire hydrant , and it has to be easily serviceable : you have to know where it is and what it does .
and we also designed the condoms themselves .
and i was just in new york at the launch , and i went to see all these places where they 're installed :
this is at a puerto rican little mom-and-pop store ; at a bar in christopher street ; at a pool hall .
i mean , they 're being installed in homeless clinics -- everywhere .
of course , clubs and discos , too .
and here 's the public service announcement for this project .
get some .
so , this is really where design is able to create a conversation .
i was in these venues , and people were , you know , really into getting them . they were excited .
it was breaking the ice , it was getting over a stigma , and i think that 's also what design can do .
so , i was going to throw some condoms in the room and whatnot , but i 'm not sure it 's the etiquette here .
yeah ? all right , all right . i have only a few .
so , i have more , you can always ask me for some more later .
and if anybody asks why you 're carrying a condom , you can just say you like the design .
so , i 'll finish with just one thought : if we all work together on creating value , but if we really keep in mind the values of the work that we do , i think we can change the work that we do .
we can change these values , can change the companies we work with , and eventually , together , maybe we can change the world .
so , thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / eric _ whitacre _ virtual _ choir _ live.html
composer and conductor eric whitacre has inspired millions by bringing together " virtual choirs , " singers from many countries spliced together on video . now , for the first time ever , he creates the experience in real time , as 32 singers from around the world skype in to join an onstage choir for an epic performance of whitacre 's " cloudburst , " based on a poem by octavio paz .
collaboration , community , entertainment , live music , technology
1697
eric whitacre : virtual choir live
in 1991 i had maybe the most profound and transformative experience of my life .
i was in the third year of my seven-year undergraduate degree .
i took a couple victory laps in there .
and i was on a college choir tour up in northern california , and we had stopped for the day after all day on the bus , and we were relaxing next to this beautiful idyllic lake in the mountains .
and there were crickets and birds and frogs making noise , and as we sat there , over the mountains coming in
from the north were these steven spielbergian clouds rolling toward us , and as the clouds got about halfway over the valley , so help me god , every single animal in that place stopped making noise at the same time .
this electric hush , as if they could sense what was about to happen .
and then the clouds came over us , and then , boom ! this massive thunderclap , and sheets of rain .
it was just extraordinary , and when i came back home i found a poem by the mexican poet octavio paz , and decided to set it to music , a piece for choir called " cloudburst , " which is the piece that we 'll perform for you in just a moment .
now fast forward to just three years ago .
and we released to youtube this , the virtual choir project , 185 singers from 12 different countries .
you can see my little video there conducting these people , alone in their dorm rooms or in their living rooms at home .
two years ago , on this very stage , we premiered virtual choir 2 , 2,052 singers from 58 different countries , this time performing a piece that i had written called " sleep . "
and then just last spring we released virtual choir 3 , " water night , " another piece that i had written , this time nearly 4,000 singers from 73 different countries .
and when i was speaking to chris about the future of virtual choir and where we might be able to take this , he challenged me to push the technology as far as we possibly could .
could we do this all in real time ?
could we have people singing together in real time ?
and with the help of skype , that is what we are going to attempt today .
now , we 'll perform " cloudburst " for you .
the first half will be performed by the live singers here on stage .
i 'm joined by singers from cal state long beach , cal state fullerton and riverside community college , some of the best amateur choirs in the country , and - -- and in the second half of the piece , the virtual choir will join us , 30 different singers from 30 different countries .
now , we 've pushed the technology as far as it can go , but there 's still less than a second of latency , but in musical terms , that 's a lifetime .
we deal in milliseconds .
so what i 've done is , i 've adapted " cloudburst " so that it embraces the latency and the performers sing into the latency instead of trying to be exactly together .
so with deep humility , and for your approval , we present " cloudburst . "
[ the rain ... ] [ eyes of shadow-water ] [ eyes of well-water ] [ eyes of dream-water . ] [ blue suns , green whirlwinds , ] [ birdbeaks of light pecking open ] [ pomegranate stars . ] [ but tell me , burnt earth , is there no water ? ] [ only blood , only dust , ] [ only naked footsteps on the thorns ? ] [ the rain awakens ... ] [ we must sleep with open eyes , ] [ we must dream with our hands , ] [ we must dream the dreams of a river seeking its course , ] [ of the sun dreaming its worlds . ] [ we must dream aloud , ] [ we must sing till the song puts forth roots , ] [ trunk , branches , birds , stars . ] [ we must find the lost word , ] [ and remember what the blood , ] [ the tides , the earth , and the body say , ] [ and return to the point of departure ... ] [ " cloudburst " octavio paz ] [ translation by lysander kemp , adapted by eric whitacre ] eric whitacre : beth . annabelle , where are you ? jacob .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / kavita _ ramdas _ radical _ women _ embracing _ tradition.html
investing in women can unlock infinite potential around the globe . but how can women walk the line between western-style empowerment and traditional culture ? kavita ramdas of the global fund for women talks about three encounters with powerful women who fight to make the world better -- while preserving the traditions that sustain them .
culture , social change , third world , women
842
kavita ramdas : radical women , embracing tradition
salaam . namaskar .
good morning .
given my ted profile , you might be expecting that i 'm going to speak to you about the latest philanthropic trends -- the one that 's currently got wall street and the world bank buzzing -- how to invest in women , how to empower them , how to save them .
not me .
i am interested in how women are saving us .
they 're saving us by redefining and re-imagining a future that defies and blurs accepted polarities , polarities we 've taken for granted for a long time , like the ones between modernity and tradition , first world and third world , oppression and opportunity .
in the midst of the daunting challenges we face as a global community , there 's something about this third way raga that is making my heart sing . what intrigues me most is how women are doing this , despite a set of paradoxes that are both frustrating and fascinating .
why is it that women are , on the one hand , viciously oppressed by cultural practices , and yet at the same time , are the preservers of cultures in most societies ?
is the hijab or the headscarf a symbol of submission or resistance ?
when so many women and girls are beaten , raped , maimed on a daily basis in the name of all kinds of causes -- honor , religion , nationality -- what allows women to replant trees , to rebuild societies , to lead radical , non-violent movements for social change ?
is it different women who are doing the preserving and the radicalizing ?
or are they one and the same ?
are we guilty , as chimamanda adichie reminded us at the ted conference in oxford , of assuming that there is a single story of women 's struggles for their rights while there are , in fact , many ?
and what , if anything , do men have to do with it ?
much of my life has been a quest to get some answers to these questions .
it 's taken me across the globe and introduced me to some amazing people .
in the process , i 've gathered a few fragments that help me shed some light on this puzzle .
among those who 've helped open my eyes to a third way are : a devout muslim in afghanistan , a group of harmonizing lesbians in croatia and a taboo breaker in liberia .
i 'm indebted to them , as i am to my parents , who for some set of misdemeanors in their last life , were blessed with three daughters in this one .
and for reasons equally unclear to me , seem to be inordinately proud of the three of us .
i was born and raised here in india , and i learned from an early age to be deeply suspicious of the aunties and uncles who would bend down , pat us on the head and then say to my parents with no problem at all , " poor things . you only have three daughters .
but you 're young , you could still try again . "
my sense of outrage about women 's rights was brought to a boil when i was about 11 .
my aunt , an incredibly articulate and brilliant woman , was widowed early .
a flock of relatives descended on her .
they took off her colorful sari .
they made her wear a white one .
they wiped her bindi off her forehead .
they broke her bangles .
her daughter , rani , a few years older than me , sat in her lap bewildered , not knowing what had happened to the confident woman she once knew as her mother .
late that night , i heard my mother begging my father , " please do something ramu . can 't you intervene ? "
and my father , in a low voice , muttering , " i 'm just the youngest brother , there 's nothing i can do .
this is tradition . "
that 's the night i learned the rules about what it means to be female in this world .
women don 't make those rules , but they define us , and they define our opportunities and our chances .
and men are affected by those rules too .
my father , who had fought in three wars , could not save his own sister from this suffering .
by 18 , under the excellent tutelage of my mother , i was therefore , as you might expect , defiantly feminist .
on the streets chanting , " [ hindi ] [ hindi ] we are the women of india .
we are not flowers , we are sparks of change . "
by the time i got to beijing in 1995 , it was clear to me , the only way to achieve gender equality was to overturn centuries of oppressive tradition .
soon after i returned from beijing , i leapt at the chance to work for this wonderful organization , founded by women , to support women 's rights organizations around the globe .
but barely six months into my new job , i met a woman who forced me to challenge all my assumptions .
her name is sakena yacoobi .
she walked into my office at a time when no one knew where afghanistan was in the united states .
she said to me , " it is not about the burka . "
she was the most determined advocate for women 's rights i had ever heard .
she told me women were running underground schools in her communities inside afghanistan , and that her organization , the afghan institute of learning , had started a school in pakistan .
she said , " the first thing anyone who is a muslim knows is that the koran requires and strongly supports literacy .
the prophet wanted every believer to be able to read the koran for themselves . "
had i heard right ?
was a women 's rights advocate invoking religion ?
but sakena defies labels .
she always wears a headscarf ,
but i 've walked alongside with her on a beach with her long hair flying in the breeze .
she starts every lecture with a prayer , but she 's a single , feisty , financially independent woman in a country where girls are married off at the age of 12 .
she is also immensely pragmatic .
" this headscarf and these clothes , " she says , " give me the freedom to do what i need to do to speak to those whose support and assistance are critical for this work .
when i had to open the school in the refugee camp , i went to see the imam .
i told him , ' i 'm a believer , and women and children in these terrible conditions need their faith to survive . ' "
she smiles slyly .
" he was flattered .
he began to come twice a week to my center because women could not go to the mosque .
and after he would leave , women and girls would stay behind .
we began with a small literacy class to read the koran , then a math class , then an english class , then computer classes .
in a few weeks , everyone in the refugee camp was in our classes . "
sakena is a teacher at a time when to educate women is a dangerous business in afghanistan .
she is on the taliban 's hit list .
i worry about her every time she travels across that country .
she shrugs when i ask her about safety .
" kavita jaan , we cannot allow ourselves to be afraid .
look at those young girls who go back to school when acid is thrown in their face . "
and i smile , and i nod , realizing i 'm watching women and girls using their own religious traditions and practices , turning them into instruments of opposition and opportunity .
their path is their own and it looks towards an afghanistan that will be different .
being different is something the women of lesbor in zagreb , croatia know all too well .
to be a lesbian , a dyke , a homosexual in most parts of the world , including right here in our country , india , is to occupy a place of immense discomfort and extreme prejudice .
in post-conflict societies like croatia , where a hyper-nationalism and religiosity have created an environment unbearable for anyone who might be considered a social outcast .
so enter a group of out dykes , young women who love the old music that once spread across that region from macedonia to bosnia , from serbia to slovenia .
these folk singers met at college at a gender studies program .
many are in their 20s , some are mothers .
many have struggled to come out to their communities ,
in families whose religious beliefs make it hard to accept that their daughters are not sick , just queer .
as leah , one of the founders of the group , says , " i like traditional music very much .
i also like rock and roll .
so lesbor , we blend the two .
i see traditional music like a kind of rebellion , in which people can really speak their voice , especially traditional songs from other parts of the former yugoslav republic .
after the war , lots of these songs were lost ,
but they are a part of our childhood and our history , and we should not forget them . " improbably , this lgbt singing choir has demonstrated how women are investing in tradition to create change , like alchemists turning discord into harmony .
their repertoire includes the croatian national anthem , a bosnian love song and serbian duets .
and , leah adds with a grin , " kavita , we especially are proud of our christmas music , because it shows we are open to religious practices even though catholic church hates us lgbt . "
their concerts draw from their own communities , yes , but also from an older generation : a generation that might be suspicious of homosexuality , but is nostalgic for its own music and the past it represents .
one father , who had initially balked at his daughter coming out in such a choir , now writes songs for them .
in the middle ages , troubadours would travel across the land singing their tales and sharing their verses :
lesbor travels through the balkans like this , singing , connecting people divided by religion , nationality and language . bosnians , croats and serbs find a rare shared space of pride in their history , and lesbor reminds them that the songs one group often claims as theirs alone really belong to them all .
yesterday , mallika sarabhai showed us that music can create a world more accepting of difference than the one we have been given .
the world layma bowie was given was a world at war .
liberia had been torn apart by civil strife for decades .
layma was not an activist , she was a mother of three .
but she was sick with worry :
she worried her son would be abducted and taken off to be a child soldier ,
she worried her daughters would be raped ,
she worried for their lives .
one night , she had a dream .
she dreamt she and thousands of other women ended the bloodshed .
the next morning at church , she asked others how they felt .
they were all tired of the fighting .
we need peace , and we need our leaders to know we will not rest until there is peace .
among layma 's friends was a policewoman who was muslim .
she promised to raise the issue with her community .
at the next friday sermon , the women who were sitting in the side room of the mosque began to share their distress at the state of affairs .
" what does it matter ? " they said , " a bullet doesn 't distinguish between a muslim and a christian . "
this small group of women , determined to bring an end to the war ,
and they chose to use their traditions to make a point :
liberian women usually wear lots of jewelry and colorful clothing .
but no , for the protest , they dressed all in white , no makeup .
as layma said , " we wore the white saying we were out for peace . "
they stood on the side of the road on which charles taylor 's motorcade passed every day .
they stood for weeks -- first just 10 , then 20 , then 50 , then hundreds of women -- wearing white , singing , dancing , saying they were out for peace .
eventually , opposing forces in liberia were pushed to hold peace talks in ghana .
the peace talks dragged on and on and on .
layma and her sisters had had enough .
with their remaining funds , they took a small group of women down to the venue of the peace talks and they surrounded the building .
in a now famous cnn clip , you can see them sitting on the ground , their arms linked .
we know this in india . it 's called a [ hindi ] .
then things get tense .
the police are called in to physically remove the women .
as the senior officer approaches with a baton , layma stands up with deliberation , reaches her arms up over her head , and begins , very slowly , to untie her headdress that covers her hair .
you can see the policeman 's face .
he looks embarrassed . he backs away .
and the next thing you know , the police have disappeared .
layma said to me later , " it 's a taboo , you know , in west africa .
if an older woman undresses in front of a man because she wants to , the man 's family is cursed . "
she said , " i don 't know if he did it because he believed , but he knew we were not going to leave .
we were not going to leave until the peace accord was signed . "
and the peace accord was signed .
and the women of liberia then mobilized in support of ellen johnson sirleaf , a woman who broke a few taboos herself becoming the first elected woman head of state in africa in years .
when she made her presidential address , she acknowledged these brave women of liberia who allowed her to win against a football star -- that 's soccer for you americans -- no less .
women like sakena and leah and layma have humbled me and changed me and made me realize that i should not be so quick to jump to assumptions of any kind .
they 've also saved me from my righteous anger by offering insights into this third way .
a filipina activist once said to me , " how do you cook a rice cake ?
with heat from the bottom and heat from the top . "
the protests , the marches , the uncompromising position that women 's rights are human rights , full stop .
that 's the heat from the bottom .
that 's malcolm x and the suffragists and gay pride parades .
but we also need the heat from the top .
and in most parts of the world , that top is still controlled by men .
so to paraphrase marx : women make change , but not in circumstances of their own choosing .
they have to negotiate .
they have to subvert tradition that once silenced them in order to give voice to new aspirations .
and they need allies from their communities . allies like the imam , allies like the father who now writes songs for a lesbian group in croatia , allies like the policeman who honored a taboo and backed away , allies like my father , who couldn 't help his sister but has helped three daughters pursue their dreams .
maybe this is because feminism , unlike almost every other social movement , is not a struggle against a distinct oppressor --
it 's not the ruling class or the occupiers or the colonizers -- it 's against a deeply held set of beliefs and assumptions that we women , far too often , hold ourselves .
and perhaps this is the ultimate gift of feminism , that the personal is in fact the political .
so that , as eleanor roosevelt said once of human rights , the same is true of gender equality : that it starts in small places , close to home .
on the streets , yes , but also in negotiations at the kitchen table and in the marital bed and in relationships between lovers and parents and sisters and friends . and then you realize that by integrating aspects of tradition and community into their struggles , women like sakena and leah and layma -- but also women like sonia gandhi here in india and michelle bachelet in chile and shirin ebadi in iran -- are doing something else .
they 're challenging the very notion of western models of development .
they are saying , we don 't have to be like you to make change .
we can wear a sari or a hijab or pants or a boubou , and we can be party leaders and presidents and human rights lawyers .
we can use our tradition to navigate change .
we can demilitarize societies and pour resources , instead , into reservoirs of genuine security .
it is in these little stories , these individual stories , that i see a radical epic being written by women around the world .
it is in these threads that are being woven into a resilient fabric that will sustain communities , that i find hope .
and if my heart is singing , it 's because in these little fragments , every now and again , you catch a glimpse of a whole , of a whole new world .
and she is definitely on her way .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / hannah _ brencher _ love _ letters _ to _ strangers.html
hannah brencher 's mother always wrote her letters . so when she felt herself bottom into depression after college , she did what felt natural -- she wrote love letters and left them for strangers to find . the act has become a global initiative , the world needs more love letters , which rushes handwritten letters to those in need of a boost .
communication , culture
1603
hannah brencher : love letters to strangers
i was one of the only kids in college who had a reason to go to the p.o. box at the end of the day , and that was mainly because my mother has never believed in email , in facebook , in texting or cell phones in general .
and so while other kids were bbm-ing their parents , i was literally waiting by the mailbox to get a letter from home to see how the weekend had gone , which was a little frustrating when grandma was in the hospital , but i was just looking for some sort of scribble , some unkempt cursive from my mother .
and so when i moved to new york city after college and got completely sucker-punched in the face by depression , i did the only thing i could think of at the time . i wrote those same kinds of letters that my mother had written me
for strangers , and tucked them all throughout the city , dozens and dozens of them . i left them everywhere ,
in cafes and in libraries , at the u.n. , everywhere .
i blogged about those letters and the days when they were necessary , and i posed a kind of crazy promise to the internet : that if you asked me for a hand-written letter , i would write you one , no questions asked .
overnight , my inbox morphed into this harbor of heartbreak -- a single mother in sacramento , a girl being bullied in rural kansas , all asking me , a 22-year-old girl who barely even knew her own coffee order , to write them a love letter and give them a reason to wait by the mailbox .
well , today i fuel a global organization that is fueled by those trips to the mailbox , fueled by the ways in which we can harness social media like never before to write and mail strangers letters when they need them most , but most of all , fueled by crates of mail like this one , my trusty mail crate , filled with the scriptings of ordinary people , strangers writing letters to other strangers not because they 're ever going to meet and laugh over a cup of coffee , but because they have found one another by way of letter-writing .
but , you know , the thing that always gets me about these letters is that most of them have been written by people that have never known themselves loved on a piece of paper .
they could not tell you about the ink of their own love letters .
they 're the ones from my generation , the ones of us that have grown up into a world where everything is paperless , and where some of our best conversations have happened upon a screen .
we have learned to diary our pain onto facebook , and we speak swiftly in 140 characters or less .
but what if it 's not about efficiency this time ?
i was on the subway yesterday with this mail crate , which is a conversation starter , let me tell you . if you ever need one , just carry one of these . and a man just stared at me , and he was like , " well , why don 't you use the internet ? "
and i thought , " well , sir , i am not a strategist , nor am i specialist . i am merely a storyteller . "
and so i could tell you about a woman whose husband has just come home from afghanistan , and she is having a hard time unearthing this thing called conversation , and so she tucks love letters throughout the house as a way to say , " come back to me .
find me when you can . "
or a girl who decides that she is going to leave love letters around her campus in dubuque , iowa , only to find her efforts ripple-effected the next day when she walks out onto the quad and finds love letters hanging from the trees , tucked in the bushes and the benches .
or the man who decides that he is going to take his life , uses facebook as a way to say goodbye to friends and family .
well , tonight he sleeps safely with a stack of letters just like this one tucked beneath his pillow , scripted by strangers who were there for him when .
these are the kinds of stories that convinced me that letter-writing will never again need to flip back her hair and talk about efficiency , because she is an art form now ,
all the parts of her , the signing , the scripting , the mailing , the doodles in the margins . the mere fact that somebody would even just sit down , pull out a piece of paper and think about someone the whole way through , with an intention that is so much harder to unearth when the browser is up and the iphone is pinging and we 've got six conversations rolling in at once , that is an art form that does not fall down to the goliath of " get faster , " no matter how many social networks we might join .
we still clutch close these letters to our chest , to the words that speak louder than loud , when we turn pages into palettes to say the things that we have needed to say , the words that we have needed to write , to sisters and brothers and even to strangers , for far too long .
thank you .
http : / / www.ted.com / talks / lee _ cronin _ print _ your _ own _ medicine.html
chemist lee cronin is working on a 3d printer that , instead of objects , is able to print molecules . an exciting potential long-term application : printing your own medicine using chemical inks .
chemistry , health care , medical research , medicine , science
1661
lee cronin : print your own medicine
organic chemists make molecules , very complicated molecules , by chopping up a big molecule into small molecules and reverse engineering .
and as a chemist , one of the things i wanted to ask my research group a couple of years ago is , could we make a really cool universal chemistry set ?
