" he cannot leave town at present .
he has other cases which engage his attention . "
" what a pity !
he might throw some light on that which is so dark to us .
but as to your own researches , if there is any possible way in which i can be of service to you i trust that you will command me .
if i had any indication of the nature of your suspicions or how you propose to investigate the case , i might perhaps even now give you some aid or advice . "
" i assure you that i am simply here upon a visit to my friend , sir henry , and that i need no help of any kind . "
" excellent ! " said stapleton .
" you are perfectly right to be wary and discreet .
i am justly reproved for what i feel was an unjustifiable intrusion , and i promise you that i will not mention the matter again . "
we had come to a point where a narrow grassy path struck off from the road and wound away across the moor .
a steep , boulder-sprinkled hill lay upon the right which had in bygone days been cut into a granite quarry .
the face which was turned towards us formed a dark cliff , with ferns and brambles growing in its niches .
from over a distant rise there floated a gray plume of smoke .
" a moderate walk along this moor-path brings us to merripit house , " said he .
" perhaps you will spare an hour that i may have the pleasure of introducing you to my sister . "
my first thought was that i should be by sir henry 's side .
but then i remembered the pile of papers and bills with which his study table was littered . it was certain that i could not help with those .
and holmes had expressly said that i should study the neighbours upon the moor .
i accepted stapleton 's invitation , and we turned together down the path .
" it is a wonderful place , the moor , " said he , looking round over the undulating downs , long green rollers , with crests of jagged granite foaming up into fantastic surges .
" you never tire of the moor .
you cannot think the wonderful secrets which it contains .
it is so vast , and so barren , and so mysterious . "
" you know it well , then ? "
" i have only been here two years .
the residents would call me a newcomer .
we came shortly after sir charles settled .
but my tastes led me to explore every part of the country round , and i should think that there are few men who know it better than i do . "
" is it hard to know ? "
" very hard .
you see , for example , this great plain to the north here with the queer hills breaking out of it .
do you observe anything remarkable about that ? "
" it would be a rare place for a gallop . "
" you would naturally think so and the thought has cost several their lives before now .
you notice those bright green spots scattered thickly over it ? "
" yes , they seem more fertile than the rest . "
stapleton laughed .
" that is the great grimpen mire , " said he .
" a false step yonder means death to man or beast .
only yesterday i saw one of the moor ponies wander into it . he never came out .
i saw his head for quite a long time craning out of the bog-hole , but it sucked him down at last .
even in dry seasons it is a danger to cross it , but after these autumn rains it is an awful place .
and yet i can find my way to the very heart of it and return alive .
by george , there is another of those miserable ponies ! "
something brown was rolling and tossing among the green sedges .
then a long , agonized , writhing neck shot upward and a dreadful cry echoed over the moor .
it turned me cold with horror , but my companion 's nerves seemed to be stronger than mine .
" it 's gone ! " said he .
" the mire has him .
two in two days , and many more , perhaps , for they get in the way of going there in the dry weather , and never know the difference until the mire has them in its clutches .
it 's a bad place , the great grimpen mire . "
" and you say you can penetrate it ? "
" yes , there are one or two paths which a very active man can take .
i have found them out . "
" but why should you wish to go into so horrible a place ? "
" well , you see the hills beyond ?
they are really islands cut off on all sides by the impassable mire , which has crawled round them in the course of years .
that is where the rare plants and the butterflies are , if you have the wit to reach them . "
" i shall try my luck some day . "
he looked at me with a surprised face .
" for god 's sake put such an idea out of your mind , " said he .
" your blood would be upon my head .
i assure you that there would not be the least chance of your coming back alive .
it is only by remembering certain complex landmarks that i am able to do it . "
" halloa ! " i cried .
" what is that ? "
a long , low moan , indescribably sad , swept over the moor .
it filled the whole air , and yet it was impossible to say whence it came .
from a dull murmur it swelled into a deep roar , and then sank back into a melancholy , throbbing murmur once again .
stapleton looked at me with a curious expression in his face .
" queer place , the moor ! " said he .
" but what is it ? "
" the peasants say it is the hound of the baskervilles calling for its prey .
i 've heard it once or twice before , but never quite so loud . "
i looked round , with a chill of fear in my heart , at the huge swelling plain , mottled with the green patches of rushes .
nothing stirred over the vast expanse save a pair of ravens , which croaked loudly from a tor behind us .
" you are an educated man .
you don 't believe such nonsense as that ? " said i .
" what do you think is the cause of so strange a sound ? "
" bogs make queer noises sometimes . it 's the mud settling , or the water rising , or something . "
" no , no , that was a living voice . "
" well , perhaps it was .
did you ever hear a bittern booming ? "
" no , i never did . "
" it 's a very rare bird--practically extinct--in england now , but all things are possible upon the moor .
yes , i should not be surprised to learn that what we have heard is the cry of the last of the bitterns . "
" it 's the weirdest , strangest thing that ever i heard in my life . "
" yes , it 's rather an uncanny place altogether .
look at the hill- side yonder .
what do you make of those ? "
the whole steep slope was covered with gray circular rings of stone , a score of them at least .
" what are they ? sheep-pens ? "
" no , they are the homes of our worthy ancestors .
prehistoric man lived thickly on the moor , and as no one in particular has lived there since , we find all his little arrangements exactly as he left them .
these are his wigwams with the roofs off .
you can even see his hearth and his couch if you have the curiosity to go inside .
" but it is quite a town .
when was it inhabited ? "
" neolithic man--no date . "
" what did he do ? "
" he grazed his cattle on these slopes , and he learned to dig for tin when the bronze sword began to supersede the stone axe .
look at the great trench in the opposite hill .
that is his mark .
yes , you will find some very singular points about the moor , dr. watson .
oh , excuse me an instant ! it is surely cyclopides . "
a small fly or moth had fluttered across our path , and in an instant stapleton was rushing with extraordinary energy and speed in pursuit of it .
to my dismay the creature flew straight for the great mire , and my acquaintance never paused for an instant , bounding from tuft to tuft behind it , his green net waving in the air .
his gray clothes and jerky , zigzag , irregular progress made him not unlike some huge moth himself .
i was standing watching his pursuit with a mixture of admiration for his extraordinary activity and fear lest he should lose his footing in the treacherous mire , when i heard the sound of steps , and turning round found a woman near me upon the path .
she had come from the direction in which the plume of smoke indicated the position of merripit house , but the dip of the moor had hid her until she was quite close .
i could not doubt that this was the miss stapleton of whom i had been told , since ladies of any sort must be few upon the moor , and i remembered that i had heard someone describe her as being a beauty .
the woman who approached me was certainly that , and of a most uncommon type .
there could not have been a greater contrast between brother and sister , for stapleton was neutral tinted , with light hair and gray eyes , while she was darker than any brunette whom i have seen in england--slim , elegant , and tall .
she had a proud , finely cut face , so regular that it might have seemed impassive were it not for the sensitive mouth and the beautiful dark , eager eyes .
with her perfect figure and elegant dress she was , indeed , a strange apparition upon a lonely moorland path .
her eyes were on her brother as i turned , and then she quickened her pace towards me .
i had raised my hat and was about to make some explanatory remark , when her own words turned all my thoughts into a new channel .
" go back ! " she said .
" go straight back to london , instantly . "
i could only stare at her in stupid surprise .
her eyes blazed at me , and she tapped the ground impatiently with her foot .
" why should i go back ? " i asked .
" i cannot explain . " she spoke in a low , eager voice , with a curious lisp in her utterance .
" but for god 's sake do what i ask you . go back and never set foot upon the moor again . "
" but i have only just come . "
" man , man ! " she cried .
" can you not tell when a warning is for your own good ?
go back to london !
start to-night !
get away from this place at all costs !
hush , my brother is coming !
not a word of what i have said .
would you mind getting that orchid for me among the mares-tails yonder ?
we are very rich in orchids on the moor , though , of course , you are rather late to see the beauties of the place . "
stapleton had abandoned the chase and came back to us breathing hard and flushed with his exertions .
" halloa , beryl ! " said he , and it seemed to me that the tone of his greeting was not altogether a cordial one .
" well , jack , you are very hot . "
" yes , i was chasing a cyclopides .
he is very rare and seldom found in the late autumn .
what a pity that i should have missed him ! " he spoke unconcernedly , but his small light eyes glanced incessantly from the girl to me .
" you have introduced yourselves , i can see . "
" yes .
i was telling sir henry that it was rather late for him to see the true beauties of the moor . "
" why , who do you think this is ? "
" i imagine that it must be sir henry baskerville . "
" no , no , " said i .
" only a humble commoner , but his friend .
my name is dr. watson . "
a flush of vexation passed over her expressive face .
" we have been talking at cross purposes , " said she .
" why , you had not very much time for talk , " her brother remarked with the same questioning eyes .
" i talked as if dr. watson were a resident instead of being merely a visitor , " said she .
" it cannot much matter to him whether it is early or late for the orchids .
but you will come on , will you not , and see merripit house ? "
a short walk brought us to it , a bleak moorland house , once the farm of some grazier in the old prosperous days , but now put into repair and turned into a modern dwelling .
an orchard surrounded it , but the trees , as is usual upon the moor , were stunted and nipped , and the effect of the whole place was mean and melancholy .
we were admitted by a strange , wizened , rusty-coated old manservant , who seemed in keeping with the house .
inside , however , there were large rooms furnished with an elegance in which i seemed to recognize the taste of the lady .
as i looked from their windows at the interminable granite-flecked moor rolling unbroken to the farthest horizon i could not but marvel at what could have brought this highly educated man and this beautiful woman to live in such a place .
" queer spot to choose , is it not ? " said he as if in answer to my thought .
" and yet we manage to make ourselves fairly happy , do we not , beryl ? "
" quite happy , " said she , but there was no ring of conviction in her words .
" i had a school , " said stapleton .
" it was in the north country . the work to a man of my temperament was mechanical and uninteresting , but the privilege of living with youth , of helping to mould those young minds , and of impressing them with one 's own character and ideals , was very dear to me .
however , the fates were against us .
a serious epidemic broke out in the school and three of the boys died .
it never recovered from the blow , and much of my capital was irretrievably swallowed up .
and yet , if it were not for the loss of the charming companionship of the boys , i could rejoice over my own misfortune , for , with my strong tastes for botany and zoology , i find an unlimited field of work here , and my sister is as devoted to nature as i am .
all this , dr. watson , has been brought upon your head by your expression as you surveyed the moor out of our window . "
" it certainly did cross my mind that it might be a little dull--less for you , perhaps , than for your sister . "
" no , no , i am never dull , " said she , quickly .
" we have books , we have our studies , and we have interesting neighbours .
dr. mortimer is a most learned man in his own line .
poor sir charles was also an admirable companion .
we knew him well , and miss him more than i can tell .
do you think that i should intrude if i were to call this afternoon and make the acquaintance of sir henry ? "
" i am sure that he would be delighted . "
" then perhaps you would mention that i propose to do so .
we may in our humble way do something to make things more easy for him until he becomes accustomed to his new surroundings .
will you come upstairs , dr. watson , and inspect my collection of lepidoptera ?
i think it is the most complete one in the south-west of england .
by the time that you have looked through them lunch will be almost ready . "
but i was eager to get back to my charge .
the melancholy of the moor , the death of the unfortunate pony , the weird sound which had been associated with the grim legend of the baskervilles , all these things tinged my thoughts with sadness .
then on the top of these more or less vague impressions there had come the definite and distinct warning of miss stapleton , delivered with such intense earnestness that i could not doubt that some grave and deep reason lay behind it .
i resisted all pressure to stay for lunch , and i set off at once upon my return journey , taking the grass-grown path by which we had come .
it seems , however , that there must have been some short cut for those who knew it , for before i had reached the road i was astounded to see miss stapleton sitting upon a rock by the side of the track .
her face was beautifully flushed with her exertions , and she held her hand to her side .
" i have run all the way in order to cut you off , dr. watson , " said she .
" i had not even time to put on my hat .
i must not stop , or my brother may miss me .
i wanted to say to you how sorry i am about the stupid mistake i made in thinking that you were sir henry .
please forget the words i said , which have no application whatever to you . "
" but i can 't forget them , miss stapleton , " said i .
" i am sir henry 's friend , and his welfare is a very close concern of mine .
tell me why it was that you were so eager that sir henry should return to london . "
" a woman 's whim , dr. watson .
when you know me better you will understand that i cannot always give reasons for what i say or do . "
" no , no .
i remember the thrill in your voice .
i remember the look in your eyes .
please , please , be frank with me , miss stapleton , for ever since i have been here i have been conscious of shadows all round me .
life has become like that great grimpen mire , with little green patches everywhere into which one may sink and with no guide to point the track .
tell me then what it was that you meant , and i will promise to convey your warning to sir henry . "
an expression of irresolution passed for an instant over her face , but her eyes had hardened again when she answered me .
" you make too much of it , dr. watson , " said she .
" my brother and i were very much shocked by the death of sir charles .
we knew him very intimately , for his favourite walk was over the moor to our house .
he was deeply impressed with the curse which hung over the family , and when this tragedy came i naturally felt that there must be some grounds for the fears which he had expressed .
i was distressed therefore when another member of the family came down to live here , and i felt that he should be warned of the danger which he will run .
that was all which i intended to convey .
" but what is the danger ? "
" you know the story of the hound ? "
" i do not believe in such nonsense . "
" but i do .
if you have any influence with sir henry , take him away from a place which has always been fatal to his family .
the world is wide .
why should he wish to live at the place of danger ? "
" because it is the place of danger .
that is sir henry 's nature .
i fear that unless you can give me some more definite information than this it would be impossible to get him to move . "
" i cannot say anything definite , for i do not know anything definite . "
" i would ask you one more question , miss stapleton .
if you meant no more than this when you first spoke to me , why should you not wish your brother to overhear what you said ?
there is nothing to which he , or anyone else , could object . "
" my brother is very anxious to have the hall inhabited , for he thinks it is for the good of the poor folk upon the moor .
he would be very angry if he knew that i have said anything which might induce sir henry to go away .
but i have done my duty now and i will say no more .
i must get back , or he will miss me and suspect that i have seen you .
good-bye ! "
she turned and had disappeared in a few minutes among the scattered boulders , while i , with my soul full of vague fears , pursued my way to baskerville hall .
chapter 8 first report of dr. watson
> from this point onward i will follow the course of events by transcribing my own letters to mr. sherlock holmes which lie before me on the table .
one page is missing , but otherwise they are exactly as written and show my feelings and suspicions of the moment more accurately than my memory , clear as it is upon these tragic events , can possibly do .
baskerville hall , october 13th .
my dear holmes , --my previous letters and telegrams have kept you pretty well up to date as to all that has occurred in this most god-forsaken corner of the world .
the longer one stays here the more does the spirit of the moor sink into one 's soul , its vastness , and also its grim charm .
when you are once out upon its bosom you have left all traces of modern england behind you , but on the other hand you are conscious everywhere of the homes and the work of the prehistoric people .
on all sides of you as you walk are the houses of these forgotten folk , with their graves and the huge monoliths which are supposed to have marked their temples .
as you look at their gray stone huts against the scarred hill-sides you leave your own age behind you , and if you were to see a skin-clad , hairy man crawl out from the low door fitting a flint-tipped arrow on to the string of his bow , you would feel that his presence there was more natural than your own .
the strange thing is that they should have lived so thickly on what must always have been most unfruitful soil .
i am no antiquarian , but i could imagine that they were some unwarlike and harried race who were forced to accept that which none other would occupy .
all this , however , is foreign to the mission on which you sent me and will probably be very uninteresting to your severely practical mind .
i can still remember your complete indifference as to whether the sun moved round the earth or the earth round the sun .
let me , therefore , return to the facts concerning sir henry baskerville .
if you have not had any report within the last few days it is because up to to-day there was nothing of importance to relate .
then a very surprising circumstance occurred , which i shall tell you in due course .
but , first of all , i must keep you in touch with some of the other factors in the situation .
one of these , concerning which i have said little , is the escaped convict upon the moor .
there is strong reason now to believe that he has got right away , which is a considerable relief to the lonely householders of this district .
a fortnight has passed since his flight , during which he has not been seen and nothing has been heard of him .
it is surely inconceivable that he could have held out upon the moor during all that time .
of course , so far as his concealment goes there is no difficulty at all . any one of these stone huts would give him a hiding-place .
but there is nothing to eat unless he were to catch and slaughter one of the moor sheep .
we think , therefore , that he has gone , and the outlying farmers sleep the better in consequence .
we are four able-bodied men in this household , so that we could take good care of ourselves , but i confess that i have had uneasy moments when i have thought of the stapletons .
they live miles from any help .
there are one maid , an old manservant , the sister , and the brother , the latter not a very strong man .
they would be helpless in the hands of a desperate fellow like this notting hill criminal , if he could once effect an entrance .
both sir henry and i were concerned at their situation , and it was suggested that perkins the groom should go over to sleep there , but stapleton would not hear of it .
the fact is that our friend , the baronet , begins to display a considerable interest in our fair neighbour .
it is not to be wondered at , for time hangs heavily in this lonely spot to an active man like him , and she is a very fascinating and beautiful woman .
there is something tropical and exotic about her which forms a singular contrast to her cool and unemotional brother .
yet he also gives the idea of hidden fires .
he has certainly a very marked influence over her , for i have seen her continually glance at him as she talked as if seeking approbation for what she said .
i trust that he is kind to her .
there is a dry glitter in his eyes , and a firm set of his thin lips , which goes with a positive and possibly a harsh nature .
you would find him an interesting study .
he came over to call upon baskerville on that first day , and the very next morning he took us both to show us the spot where the legend of the wicked hugo is supposed to have had its origin .
it was an excursion of some miles across the moor to a place which is so dismal that it might have suggested the story .
we found a short valley between rugged tors which led to an open , grassy space flecked over with the white cotton grass .
in the middle of it rose two great stones , worn and sharpened at the upper end , until they looked like the huge corroding fangs of some monstrous beast .
in every way it corresponded with the scene of the old tragedy .
sir henry was much interested and asked stapleton more than once whether he did really believe in the possibility of the interference of the supernatural in the affairs of men .
he spoke lightly , but it was evident that he was very much in earnest .
stapleton was guarded in his replies , but it was easy to see that he said less than he might , and that he would not express his whole opinion out of consideration for the feelings of the baronet .
he told us of similar cases , where families had suffered from some evil influence , and he left us with the impression that he shared the popular view upon the matter .
on our way back we stayed for lunch at merripit house , and it was there that sir henry made the acquaintance of miss stapleton . > from the first moment that he saw her he appeared to be strongly attracted by her , and i am much mistaken if the feeling was not mutual .
he referred to her again and again on our walk home , and since then hardly a day has passed that we have not seen something of the brother and sister .
they dine here to-night , and there is some talk of our going to them next week .
one would imagine that such a match would be very welcome to stapleton , and yet i have more than once caught a look of the strongest disapprobation in his face when sir henry has been paying some attention to his sister .
he is much attached to her , no doubt , and would lead a lonely life without her , but it would seem the height of selfishness if he were to stand in the way of her making so brilliant a marriage .
yet i am certain that he does not wish their intimacy to ripen into love , and i have several times observed that he has taken pains to prevent them from being t & circ ; te- & hellip ; -t & circ ; te .
by the way , your instructions to me never to allow sir henry to go out alone will become very much more onerous if a love affair were to be added to our other difficulties . my popularity would soon suffer if i were to carry out your orders to the letter .
the other day--thursday , to be more exact--dr . mortimer lunched with us .
he has been excavating a barrow at long down , and has got a prehistoric skull which fills him with great joy .
never was there such a single-minded enthusiast as he ! the stapletons came in afterwards , and the good doctor took us all to the yew alley , at sir henry 's request , to show us exactly how everything occurred upon that fatal night .
it is a long , dismal walk , the yew alley , between two high walls of clipped hedge , with a narrow band of grass upon either side .
at the far end is an old tumble-down summer-house .
half-way down is the moor-gate , where the old gentleman left his cigar-ash .
it is a white wooden gate with a latch .
beyond it lies the wide moor .
i remembered your theory of the affair and tried to picture all that had occurred .
as the old man stood there he saw something coming across the moor , something which terrified him so that he lost his wits , and ran and ran until he died of sheer horror and exhaustion .
there was the long , gloomy tunnel down which he fled .
and from what ?
a sheep-dog of the moor ?
or a spectral hound , black , silent , and monstrous ?
was there a human agency in the matter ?
did the pale , watchful barrymore know more than he cared to say ?
it was all dim and vague , but always there is the dark shadow of crime behind it .
one other neighbour i have met since i wrote last . this is mr. frankland , of lafter hall , who lives some four miles to the south of us .
he is an elderly man , red-faced , white-haired , and choleric .
his passion is for the british law , and he has spent a large fortune in litigation .
he fights for the mere pleasure of fighting and is equally ready to take up either side of a question , so that it is no wonder that he has found it a costly amusement .
sometimes he will shut up a right of way and defy the parish to make him open it .
at others he will with his own hands tear down some other man 's gate and declare that a path has existed there from time immemorial , defying the owner to prosecute him for trespass .
he is learned in old manorial and communal rights , and he applies his knowledge sometimes in favour of the villagers of fernworthy and sometimes against them , so that he is periodically either carried in triumph down the village street or else burned in effigy , according to his latest exploit .
he is said to have about seven lawsuits upon his hands at present , which will probably swallow up the remainder of his fortune and so draw his sting and leave him harmless for the future .
apart from the law he seems a kindly , good-natured person , and i only mention him because you were particular that i should send some description of the people who surround us .
he is curiously employed at present , for , being an amateur astronomer , he has an excellent telescope , with which he lies upon the roof of his own house and sweeps the moor all day in the hope of catching a glimpse of the escaped convict .
if he would confine his energies to this all would be well , but there are rumours that he intends to prosecute dr. mortimer for opening a grave without the consent of the next-of-kin , because he dug up the neolithic skull in the barrow on long down .
he helps to keep our lives from being monotonous and gives a little comic relief where it is badly needed .
and now , having brought you up to date in the escaped convict , the stapletons , dr. mortimer , and frankland , of lafter hall , let me end on that which is most important and tell you more about the barrymores , and especially about the surprising development of last night .
first of all about the test telegram , which you sent from london in order to make sure that barrymore was really here .
i have already explained that the testimony of the postmaster shows that the test was worthless and that we have no proof one way or the other .
i told sir henry how the matter stood , and he at once , in his downright fashion , had barrymore up and asked him whether he had received the telegram himself .
barrymore said that he had .
" did the boy deliver it into your own hands ? " asked sir henry .
barrymore looked surprised , and considered for a little time .
" no , " said he , " i was in the box-room at the time , and my wife brought it up to me . "
" did you answer it yourself ? "
" no ; i told my wife what to answer and she went down to write it . "
in the evening he recurred to the subject of his own accord .
" i could not quite understand the object of your questions this morning , sir henry , " said he .
" i trust that they do not mean that i have done anything to forfeit your confidence ? "
sir henry had to assure him that it was not so and pacify him by giving him a considerable part of his old wardrobe , the london outfit having now all arrived .
mrs. barrymore is of interest to me .
she is a heavy , solid person , very limited , intensely respectable , and inclined to be puritanical .
you could hardly conceive a less emotional subject .
yet i have told you how , on the first night here , i heard her sobbing bitterly , and since then i have more than once observed traces of tears upon her face .
some deep sorrow gnaws ever at her heart .
sometimes i wonder if she has a guilty memory which haunts her , and sometimes i suspect barrymore of being a domestic tyrant .
i have always felt that there was something singular and questionable in this man 's character , but the adventure of last night brings all my suspicions to a head .
and yet it may seem a small matter in itself .
you are aware that i am not a very sound sleeper , and since i have been on guard in this house my slumbers have been lighter than ever .
last night , about two in the morning , i was aroused by a stealthy step passing my room .
i rose , opened my door , and peeped out .
a long black shadow was trailing down the corridor . it was thrown by a man who walked softly down the passage with a candle held in his hand .
he was in shirt and trousers , with no covering to his feet .
i could merely see the outline , but his height told me that it was barrymore .
he walked very slowly and circumspectly , and there was something indescribably guilty and furtive in his whole appearance .
i have told you that the corridor is broken by the balcony which runs round the hall , but that it is resumed upon the farther side .
i waited until he had passed out of sight and then i followed him .
when i came round the balcony he had reached the end of the farther corridor , and i could see from the glimmer of light through an open door that he had entered one of the rooms .
now , all these rooms are unfurnished and unoccupied , so that his expedition became more mysterious than ever .
the light shone steadily as if he were standing motionless .
i crept down the passage as noiselessly as i could and peeped round the corner of the door .
barrymore was crouching at the window with the candle held against the glass .
his profile was half turned towards me , and his face seemed to be rigid with expectation as he stared out into the blackness of the moor .
for some minutes he stood watching intently .
then he gave a deep groan and with an impatient gesture he put out the light .
instantly i made my way back to my room , and very shortly came the stealthy steps passing once more upon their return journey .
long afterwards when i had fallen into a light sleep i heard a key turn somewhere in a lock , but i could not tell whence the sound came .
what it all means i cannot guess , but there is some secret business going on in this house of gloom which sooner or later we shall get to the bottom of .
i do not trouble you with my theories , for you asked me to furnish you only with facts .
i have had a long talk with sir henry this morning , and we have made a plan of campaign founded upon my observations of last night .
i will not speak about it just now , but it should make my next report interesting reading .
chapter 9 ( second report of dr. watson ) the light upon the moor
baskerville hall , oct. 15th .
my dear holmes , --if i was compelled to leave you without much news during the early days of my mission you must acknowledge that i am making up for lost time , and that events are now crowding thick and fast upon us .
in my last report i ended upon my top note with barrymore at the window , and now i have quite a budget already which will , unless i am much mistaken , considerably surprise you .
things have taken a turn which i could not have anticipated .
in some ways they have within the last forty-eight hours become much clearer and in some ways they have become more complicated .
but i will tell you all and you shall judge for yourself .
before breakfast on the morning following my adventure i went down the corridor and examined the room in which barrymore had been on the night before .
the western window through which he had stared so intently has , i noticed , one peculiarity above all other windows in the house--it commands the nearest outlook on the moor .
there is an opening between two trees which enables one from this point of view to look right down upon it , while from all the other windows it is only a distant glimpse which can be obtained .
it follows , therefore , that barrymore , since only this window would serve the purpose , must have been looking out for something or somebody upon the moor .
the night was very dark , so that i can hardly imagine how he could have hoped to see anyone .
it had struck me that it was possible that some love intrigue was on foot .
that would have accounted for his stealthy movements and also for the uneasiness of his wife .
the man is a striking-looking fellow , very well equipped to steal the heart of a country girl , so that this theory seemed to have something to support it .
that opening of the door which i had heard after i had returned to my room might mean that he had gone out to keep some clandestine appointment .
so i reasoned with myself in the morning , and i tell you the direction of my suspicions , however much the result may have shown that they were unfounded .
but whatever the true explanation of barrymore 's movements might be , i felt that the responsibility of keeping them to myself until i could explain them was more than i could bear .
i had an interview with the baronet in his study after breakfast , and i told him all that i had seen .
he was less surprised than i had expected .
" i knew that barrymore walked about nights , and i had a mind to speak to him about it , " said he .
" two or three times i have heard his steps in the passage , coming and going , just about the hour you name . "
" perhaps then he pays a visit every night to that particular window , " i suggested .
" perhaps he does .
if so , we should be able to shadow him , and see what it is that he is after .
i wonder what your friend holmes would do , if he were here . "
" i believe that he would do exactly what you now suggest , " said i .
" he would follow barrymore and see what he did . "
" then we shall do it together . "
" but surely he would hear us . "
" the man is rather deaf , and in any case we must take our chance of that .
we 'll sit up in my room to-night and wait until he passes . "
sir henry rubbed his hands with pleasure , and it was evident that he hailed the adventure as a relief to his somewhat quiet life upon the moor .
the baronet has been in communication with the architect who prepared the plans for sir charles , and with a contractor from london , so that we may expect great changes to begin here soon .
there have been decorators and furnishers up from plymouth , and it is evident that our friend has large ideas , and means to spare no pains or expense to restore the grandeur of his family .
when the house is renovated and refurnished , all that he will need will be a wife to make it complete .
between ourselves there are pretty clear signs that this will not be wanting if the lady is willing , for i have seldom seen a man more infatuated with a woman than he is with our beautiful neighbour , miss stapleton .
and yet the course of true love does not run quite as smoothly as one would under the circumstances expect .
to-day , for example , its surface was broken by a very unexpected ripple , which has caused our friend considerable perplexity and annoyance .
after the conversation which i have quoted about barrymore , sir henry put on his hat and prepared to go out .
as a matter of course i did the same .
" what , are you coming , watson ? " he asked , looking at me in a curious way .
" that depends on whether you are going on the moor , " said i .
" yes , i am . "
" well , you know what my instructions are .
i am sorry to intrude , but you heard how earnestly holmes insisted that i should not leave you , and especially that you should not go alone upon the moor . "
sir henry put his hand upon my shoulder with a pleasant smile .
" my dear fellow , " said he , " holmes , with all his wisdom , did not foresee some things which have happened since i have been on the moor .
you understand me ?
i am sure that you are the last man in the world who would wish to be a spoil-sport .
i must go out alone . "
it put me in a most awkward position . i was at a loss what to say or what to do , and before i had made up my mind he picked up his cane and was gone .
but when i came to think the matter over my conscience reproached me bitterly for having on any pretext allowed him to go out of my sight .
i imagined what my feelings would be if i had to return to you and to confess that some misfortune had occurred through my disregard for your instructions .
i assure you my cheeks flushed at the very thought .
it might not even now be too late to overtake him , so i set off at once in the direction of merripit house .
i hurried along the road at the top of my speed without seeing anything of sir henry , until i came to the point where the moor path branches off .
there , fearing that perhaps i had come in the wrong direction after all , i mounted a hill from which i could command a view--the same hill which is cut into the dark quarry .
thence i saw him at once .
he was on the moor path , about a quarter of a mile off , and a lady was by his side who could only be miss stapleton .
it was clear that there was already an understanding between them and that they had met by appointment .
they were walking slowly along in deep conversation , and i saw her making quick little movements of her hands as if she were very earnest in what she was saying , while he listened intently , and once or twice shook his head in strong dissent .
i stood among the rocks watching them , very much puzzled as to what i should do next .
to follow them and break into their intimate conversation seemed to be an outrage , and yet my clear duty was never for an instant to let him out of my sight .
to act the spy upon a friend was a hateful task .
still , i could see no better course than to observe him from the hill , and to clear my conscience by confessing to him afterwards what i had done .
it is true that if any sudden danger had threatened him i was too far away to be of use , and yet i am sure that you will agree with me that the position was very difficult , and that there was nothing more which i could do .
our friend , sir henry , and the lady had halted on the path and were standing deeply absorbed in their conversation , when i was suddenly aware that i was not the only witness of their interview .
a wisp of green floating in the air caught my eye , and another glance showed me that it was carried on a stick by a man who was moving among the broken ground .
it was stapleton with his butterfly-net .
he was very much closer to the pair than i was , and he appeared to be moving in their direction .
at this instant sir henry suddenly drew miss stapleton to his side . his arm was round her , but it seemed to me that she was straining away from him with her face averted .
he stooped his head to hers , and she raised one hand as if in protest .
next moment i saw them spring apart and turn hurriedly round .
stapleton was the cause of the interruption .
he was running wildly towards them , his absurd net dangling behind him .
he gesticulated and almost danced with excitement in front of the lovers .
what the scene meant i could not imagine , but it seemed to me that stapleton was abusing sir henry , who offered explanations , which became more angry as the other refused to accept them .
the lady stood by in haughty silence .
finally stapleton turned upon his heel and beckoned in a peremptory way to his sister , who , after an irresolute glance at sir henry , walked off by the side of her brother .
the naturalist 's angry gestures showed that the lady was included in his displeasure .
the baronet stood for a minute looking after them , and then he walked slowly back the way that he had come , his head hanging , the very picture of dejection .
what all this meant i could not imagine , but i was deeply ashamed to have witnessed so intimate a scene without my friend 's knowledge .
i ran down the hill therefore and met the baronet at the bottom .
his face was flushed with anger and his brows were wrinkled , like one who is at his wit 's ends what to do .
" halloa , watson !
where have you dropped from ? " said he .
" you don 't mean to say that you came after me in spite of all ? "
i explained everything to him : how i had found it impossible to remain behind , how i had followed him , and how i had witnessed all that had occurred .
for an instant his eyes blazed at me , but my frankness disarmed his anger , and he broke at last into a rather rueful laugh .
" you would have thought the middle of that prairie a fairly safe place for a man to be private , " said he , " but , by thunder , the whole country-side seems to have been out to see me do my wooing--and a mighty poor wooing at that !
where had you engaged a seat ? "
" i was on that hill . "
" quite in the back row , eh ?
but her brother was well up to the front .
did you see him come out on us ? "
" yes , i did . "
" did he ever strike you as being crazy--this brother of hers ? "
" i can 't say that he ever did . "
" i dare say not .
i always thought him sane enough until to-day , but you can take it from me that either he or i ought to be in a strait-jacket .
what 's the matter with me , anyhow ?
you 've lived near me for some weeks , watson .
tell me straight , now ! is there anything that would prevent me from making a good husband to a woman that i loved ? "
" i should say not . "
" he can 't object to my worldly position , so it must be myself that he has this down on .
what has he against me ?
i never hurt man or woman in my life that i know of .
and yet he would not so much as let me touch the tips of her fingers . "
" did he say so ? "
" that , and a deal more .
i tell you , watson , i 've only known her these few weeks , but from the first i just felt that she was made for me , and she , too--she was happy when she was with me , and that i 'll swear .
there 's a light in a woman 's eyes that speaks louder than words .
but he has never let us get together , and it was only to-day for the first time that i saw a chance of having a few words with her alone .
she was glad to meet me , but when she did it was not love that she would talk about , and she wouldn 't have let me talk about it either if she could have stopped it .
she kept coming back to it that this was a place of danger , and that she would never be happy until i had left it .
i told her that since i had seen her i was in no hurry to leave it , and that if she really wanted me to go , the only way to work it was for her to arrange to go with me .
with that i offered in as many words to marry her , but before she could answer , down came this brother of hers , running at us with a face on him like a madman . he was just white with rage , and those light eyes of his were blazing with fury .
what was i doing with the lady ? how dared i offer her attentions which were distasteful to her ?
did i think that because i was a baronet i could do what i liked ?
if he had not been her brother i should have known better how to answer him .
as it was i told him that my feelings towards his sister were such as i was not ashamed of , and that i hoped that she might honour me by becoming my wife .
that seemed to make the matter no better , so then i lost my temper too , and i answered him rather more hotly than i should perhaps , considering that she was standing by .
so it ended by his going off with her , as you saw , and here am i as badly puzzled a man as any in this county .
just tell me what it all means , watson , and i 'll owe you more than ever i can hope to pay . "
i tried one or two explanations , but , indeed , i was completely puzzled myself .
our friend 's title , his fortune , his age , his character , and his appearance are all in his favour , and i know nothing against him unless it be this dark fate which runs in his family .
that his advances should be rejected so brusquely without any reference to the lady 's own wishes , and that the lady should accept the situation without protest , is very amazing .
however , our conjectures were set at rest by a visit from stapleton himself that very afternoon . he had come to offer apologies for his rudeness of the morning , and after a long private interview with sir henry in his study , the upshot of their conversation was that the breach is quite healed , and that we are to dine at merripit house next friday as a sign of it .
" i don 't say now that he isn 't a crazy man , " said sir henry ; " i can 't forget the look in his eyes when he ran at me this morning , but i must allow that no man could make a more handsome apology than he has done . "
" did he give any explanation of his conduct ? "
" his sister is everything in his life , he says .
that is natural enough , and i am glad that he should understand her value .
they have always been together , and according to his account he has been a very lonely man with only her as a companion , so that the thought of losing her was really terrible to him .
he had not understood , he said , that i was becoming attached to her , but when he saw with his own eyes that it was really so , and that she might be taken away from him , it gave him such a shock that for a time he was not responsible for what he said or did .
he was very sorry for all that had passed , and he recognized how foolish and how selfish it was that he should imagine that he could hold a beautiful woman like his sister to himself for her whole life .
if she had to leave him he had rather it was to a neighbour like myself than to anyone else .
but in any case it was a blow to him , and it would take him some time before he could prepare himself to meet it .
he would withdraw all opposition upon his part if i would promise for three months to let the matter rest and to be content with cultivating the lady 's friendship during that time without claiming her love .
this i promised , and so the matter rests . "
so there is one of our small mysteries cleared up .
it is something to have touched bottom anywhere in this bog in which we are floundering .
we know now why stapleton looked with disfavour upon his sister 's suitor--even when that suitor was so eligible a one as sir henry .
and now i pass on to another thread which i have extricated out of the tangled skein , the mystery of the sobs in the night , of the tear-stained face of mrs. barrymore , of the secret journey of the butler to the western lattice window .
congratulate me , my dear holmes , and tell me that i have not disappointed you as an agent--that you do not regret the confidence which you showed in me when you sent me down .
all these things have by one night 's work been thoroughly cleared .
i have said " by one night 's work , " but , in truth , it was by two nights ' work , for on the first we drew entirely blank .
i sat up with sir henry in his rooms until nearly three o 'clock in the morning , but no sound of any sort did we hear except the chiming clock upon the stairs . it was a most melancholy vigil , and ended by each of us falling asleep in our chairs .
fortunately we were not discouraged , and we determined to try again .
the next night we lowered the lamp , and sat smoking cigarettes without making the least sound .
it was incredible how slowly the hours crawled by , and yet we were helped through it by the same sort of patient interest which the hunter must feel as he watches the trap into which he hopes the game may wander .
one struck , and two , and we had almost for the second time given it up in despair , when in an instant we both sat bolt upright in our chairs , with all our weary senses keenly on the alert once more .
we had heard the creak of a step in the passage .
very stealthily we heard it pass along until it died away in the distance . then the baronet gently opened his door and we set out in pursuit .
already our man had gone round the gallery , and the corridor was all in darkness .
softly we stole along until we had come into the other wing . we were just in time to catch a glimpse of the tall , black-bearded figure , his shoulders rounded , as he tip-toed down the passage .
then he passed through the same door as before , and the light of the candle framed it in the darkness and shot one single yellow beam across the gloom of the corridor . we shuffled cautiously towards it , trying every plank before we dared to put our whole weight upon it .
we had taken the precaution of leaving our boots behind us , but , even so , the old boards snapped and creaked beneath our tread .
sometimes it seemed impossible that he should fail to hear our approach .
however , the man is fortunately rather deaf , and he was entirely preoccupied in that which he was doing .
when at last we reached the door and peeped through we found him crouching at the window , candle in hand , his white , intent face pressed against the pane , exactly as i had seen him two nights before .
we had arranged no plan of campaign , but the baronet is a man to whom the most direct way is always the most natural .
he walked into the room , and as he did so barrymore sprang up from the window with a sharp hiss of his breath and stood , livid and trembling , before us .
his dark eyes , glaring out of the white mask of his face , were full of horror and astonishment as he gazed from sir henry to me .
" what are you doing here , barrymore ? "
" nothing , sir . " his agitation was so great that he could hardly speak , and the shadows sprang up and down from the shaking of his candle .
" it was the window , sir . i go round at night to see that they are fastened . "
" on the second floor ? "
" yes , sir , all the windows . "
" look here , barrymore , " said sir henry , sternly ; " we have made up our minds to have the truth out of you , so it will save you trouble to tell it sooner rather than later .
come , now !
no lies !
what were you doing at that window ? "
the fellow looked at us in a helpless way , and he wrung his hands together like one who is in the last extremity of doubt and misery .
" i was doing no harm , sir .
i was holding a candle to the window . "
" and why were you holding a candle to the window ? "
" don 't ask me , sir henry--don 't ask me !
i give you my word , sir , that it is not my secret , and that i cannot tell it .
if it concerned no one but myself i would not try to keep it from you . "
a sudden idea occurred to me , and i took the candle from the trembling hand of the butler .
" he must have been holding it as a signal , " said i .
" let us see if there is any answer . "
i held it as he had done , and stared out into the darkness of the night .
vaguely i could discern the black bank of the trees and the lighter expanse of the moor , for the moon was behind the clouds .
and then i gave a cry of exultation , for a tiny pin-point of yellow light had suddenly transfixed the dark veil , and glowed steadily in the centre of the black square framed by the window .
" there it is ! " i cried .
" no , no , sir , it is nothing--nothing at all ! " the butler broke in ; " i assure you , sir ---- "
" move your light across the window , watson ! " cried the baronet .
" see , the other moves also !
now , you rascal , do you deny that it is a signal ?
come , speak up !
who is your confederate out yonder , and what is this conspiracy that is going on ? "
the man 's face became openly defiant .
" it is my business , and not yours .
i will not tell . "
" then you leave my employment right away . "
" very good , sir .
if i must i must . "
" and you go in disgrace .
by thunder , you may well be ashamed of yourself .
your family has lived with mine for over a hundred years under this roof , and here i find you deep in some dark plot against me . "
" no , no , sir ; no , not against you ! "
it was a woman 's voice , and mrs. barrymore , paler and more horror-struck than her husband , was standing at the door .
her bulky figure in a shawl and skirt might have been comic were it not for the intensity of feeling upon her face .
" we have to go , eliza .
this is the end of it .
you can pack our things , " said the butler .
" oh , john , john , have i brought you to this ?
it is my doing , sir henry--all mine .
he has done nothing except for my sake and because i asked him . "
" speak out , then !
what does it mean ? "
" my unhappy brother is starving on the moor .
we cannot let him perish at our very gates .
the light is a signal to him that food is ready for him , and his light out yonder is to show the spot to which to bring it . "
" then your brother is -- "
" the escaped convict , sir--selden , the criminal . "
" that 's the truth , sir , " said barrymore .
" i said that it was not my secret and that i could not tell it to you .
but now you have heard it , and you will see that if there was a plot it was not against you . "
this , then , was the explanation of the stealthy expeditions at night and the light at the window .
sir henry and i both stared at the woman in amazement .
was it possible that this stolidly respectable person was of the same blood as one of the most notorious criminals in the country ?
" yes , sir , my name was selden , and he is my younger brother .
we humoured him too much when he was a lad , and gave him his own way in everything until he came to think that the world was made for his pleasure , and that he could do what he liked in it .
then as he grew older he met wicked companions , and the devil entered into him until he broke my mother 's heart and dragged our name in the dirt .
from crime to crime he sank lower and lower , until it is only the mercy of god which has snatched him from the scaffold ; but to me , sir , he was always the little curly-headed boy that i had nursed and played with , as an elder sister would .
that was why he broke prison , sir .
he knew that i was here and that we could not refuse to help him .
when he dragged himself here one night , weary and starving , with the warders hard at his heels , what could we do ?
we took him in and fed him and cared for him .
then you returned , sir , and my brother thought he would be safer on the moor than anywhere else until the hue and cry was over , so he lay in hiding there .
but every second night we made sure if he was still there by putting a light in the window , and if there was an answer my husband took out some bread and meat to him .
every day we hoped that he was gone , but as long as he was there we could not desert him .
that is the whole truth , as i am an honest christian woman , and you will see that if there is blame in the matter it does not lie with my husband , but with me , for whose sake he has done all that he has . "
the woman 's words came with an intense earnestness which carried conviction with them .
" is this true , barrymore ? "
" yes , sir henry .
every word of it . "
" well , i cannot blame you for standing by your own wife .
forget what i have said .
go to your room , you two , and we shall talk further about this matter in the morning . "
when they were gone we looked out of the window again .
sir henry had flung it open , and the cold night wind beat in upon our faces .
far away in the black distance there still glowed that one tiny point of yellow light .
" i wonder he dares , " said sir henry .
" it may be so placed as to be only visible from here . "
" very likely .
how far do you think it is ? "
" not more than a mile or two off . "
" hardly that . "
" well , it cannot be far if barrymore had to carry out the food to it .
and he is waiting , this villain , beside that candle .
by thunder , watson , i am going out to take that man ! "
the same thought had crossed my own mind .
it was not as if the barrymores had taken us into their confidence .
their secret had been forced from them .
the man was a danger to the community , an unmitigated scoundrel for whom there was neither pity nor excuse .
we were only doing our duty in taking this chance of putting him back where he could do no harm .
with his brutal and violent nature , others would have to pay the price if we held our hands .
any night , for example , our neighbours the stapletons might be attacked by him , and it may have been the thought of this which made sir henry so keen upon the adventure .
" i will come , " said i .
" then get your revolver and put on your boots .
the sooner we start the better , as the fellow may put out his light and be off . "
in five minutes we were outside the door , starting upon our expedition .
we hurried through the dark shrubbery , amid the dull moaning of the autumn wind and the rustle of the falling leaves .
the night air was heavy with the smell of damp and decay .
now and again the moon peeped out for an instant , but clouds were driving over the face of the sky , and just as we came out on the moor a thin rain began to fall .
the light still burned steadily in front .
" are you armed ? " i asked .
" i have a hunting-crop . "
" we must close in on him rapidly , for he is said to be a desperate fellow .
we shall take him by surprise and have him at our mercy before he can resist . "
" i say , watson , " said the baronet , " what would holmes say to this ?
how about that hour of darkness in which the power of evil is exalted ? "
as if in answer to his words there rose suddenly out of the vast gloom of the moor that strange cry which i had already heard upon the borders of the great grimpen mire .
it came with the wind through the silence of the night , a long , deep mutter , then a rising howl , and then the sad moan in which it died away .
again and again it sounded , the whole air throbbing with it , strident , wild , and menacing .
the baronet caught my sleeve and his face glimmered white through the darkness .
" my god , what 's that , watson ? "
" i don 't know .
it 's a sound they have on the moor .
i heard it once before . "
it died away , and an absolute silence closed in upon us .
we stood straining our ears , but nothing came .
" watson , " said the baronet , " it was the cry of a hound . "
my blood ran cold in my veins , for there was a break in his voice which told of the sudden horror which had seized him .
" what do they call this sound ? " he asked .
" who ? "
" the folk on the country-side . "
" oh , they are ignorant people .
why should you mind what they call it ? "
" tell me , watson .
what do they say of it ? "
i hesitated but could not escape the question .
" they say it is the cry of the hound of the baskervilles . "
he groaned and was silent for a few moments .
" a hound it was , " he said , at last , " but it seemed to come from miles away , over yonder , i think . "
" it was hard to say whence it came . "
" it rose and fell with the wind .
isn 't that the direction of the great grimpen mire ? "
" yes , it is . "
" well , it was up there .
come now , watson , didn 't you think yourself that it was the cry of a hound ?
i am not a child .
you need not fear to speak the truth . "
" stapleton was with me when i heard it last .
he said that it might be the calling of a strange bird . "
" no , no , it was a hound .
my god , can there be some truth in all these stories ?
is it possible that i am really in danger from so dark a cause ?
you don 't believe it , do you , watson ? "
" no , no . "
" and yet it was one thing to laugh about it in london , and it is another to stand out here in the darkness of the moor and to hear such a cry as that .
and my uncle !
there was the footprint of the hound beside him as he lay .
it all fits together .
i don 't think that i am a coward , watson , but that sound seemed to freeze my very blood .
feel my hand ! "
it was as cold as a block of marble .
" you 'll be all right to-morrow . "
" i don 't think i 'll get that cry out of my head .
what do you advise that we do now ? "
" shall we turn back ? "
" no , by thunder ; we have come out to get our man , and we will do it .
we after the convict , and a hell-hound , as likely as not , after us .
come on !
we 'll see it through if all the fiends of the pit were loose upon the moor . "
we stumbled slowly along in the darkness , with the black loom of the craggy hills around us , and the yellow speck of light burning steadily in front .
there is nothing so deceptive as the distance of a light upon a pitch-dark night , and sometimes the glimmer seemed to be far away upon the horizon and sometimes it might have been within a few yards of us .
but at last we could see whence it came , and then we knew that we were indeed very close .
a guttering candle was stuck in a crevice of the rocks which flanked it on each side so as to keep the wind from it and also to prevent it from being visible , save in the direction of baskerville hall .
a boulder of granite concealed our approach , and crouching behind it we gazed over it at the signal light .
it was strange to see this single candle burning there in the middle of the moor , with no sign of life near it--just the one straight yellow flame and the gleam of the rock on each side of it .
" what shall we do now ? " whispered sir henry .
" wait here .
he must be near his light .
let us see if we can get a glimpse of him . "
the words were hardly out of my mouth when we both saw him .
over the rocks , in the crevice of which the candle burned , there was thrust out an evil yellow face , a terrible animal face , all seamed and scored with vile passions .
foul with mire , with a bristling beard , and hung with matted hair , it might well have belonged to one of those old savages who dwelt in the burrows on the hillsides .
the light beneath him was reflected in his small , cunning eyes which peered fiercely to right and left through the darkness , like a crafty and savage animal who has heard the steps of the hunters .
something had evidently aroused his suspicions .
it may have been that barrymore had some private signal which we had neglected to give , or the fellow may have had some other reason for thinking that all was not well , but i could read his fears upon his wicked face .
any instant he might dash out the light and vanish in the darkness .
i sprang forward therefore , and sir henry did the same .
at the same moment the convict screamed out a curse at us and hurled a rock which splintered up against the boulder which had sheltered us .
i caught one glimpse of his short , squat , strongly- built figure as he sprang to his feet and turned to run .
at the same moment by a lucky chance the moon broke through the clouds .
we rushed over the brow of the hill , and there was our man running with great speed down the other side , springing over the stones in his way with the activity of a mountain goat .
a lucky long shot of my revolver might have crippled him , but i had brought it only to defend myself if attacked , and not to shoot an unarmed man who was running away .
we were both swift runners and in fairly good training , but we soon found that we had no chance of overtaking him .
we saw him for a long time in the moonlight until he was only a small speck moving swiftly among the boulders upon the side of a distant hill .
we ran and ran until we were completely blown , but the space between us grew ever wider .
finally we stopped and sat panting on two rocks , while we watched him disappearing in the distance .
and it was at this moment that there occurred a most strange and unexpected thing .
we had risen from our rocks and were turning to go home , having abandoned the hopeless chase .
the moon was low upon the right , and the jagged pinnacle of a granite tor stood up against the lower curve of its silver disc .
there , outlined as black as an ebony statue on that shining back-ground , i saw the figure of a man upon the tor .
do not think that it was a delusion , holmes .
i assure you that i have never in my life seen anything more clearly .
as far as i could judge , the figure was that of a tall , thin man . he stood with his legs a little separated , his arms folded , his head bowed , as if he were brooding over that enormous wilderness of peat and granite which lay before him .
he might have been the very spirit of that terrible place .
it was not the convict .
this man was far from the place where the latter had disappeared . besides , he was a much taller man .
with a cry of surprise i pointed him out to the baronet , but in the instant during which i had turned to grasp his arm the man was gone .
there was the sharp pinnacle of granite still cutting the lower edge of the moon , but its peak bore no trace of that silent and motionless figure .
i wished to go in that direction and to search the tor , but it was some distance away .
the baronet 's nerves were still quivering from that cry , which recalled the dark story of his family , and he was not in the mood for fresh adventures .
he had not seen this lonely man upon the tor and could not feel the thrill which his strange presence and his commanding attitude had given to me .
" a warder , no doubt , " said he .
" the moor has been thick with them since this fellow escaped . "
well , perhaps his explanation may be the right one , but i should like to have some further proof of it .
to-day we mean to communicate to the princetown people where they should look for their missing man , but it is hard lines that we have not actually had the triumph of bringing him back as our own prisoner .
such are the adventures of last night , and you must acknowledge , my dear holmes , that i have done you very well in the matter of a report .
much of what i tell you is no doubt quite irrelevant , but still i feel that it is best that i should let you have all the facts and leave you to select for yourself those which will be of most service to you in helping you to your conclusions .
we are certainly making some progress .
so far as the barrymores go we have found the motive of their actions , and that has cleared up the situation very much .
but the moor with its mysteries and its strange inhabitants remains as inscrutable as ever .
perhaps in my next i may be able to throw some light upon this also . best of all would it be if you could come down to us .
in any case you will hear from me again in the course of the next few days .
chapter 10 extract from the diary of dr. watson
so far i have been able to quote from the reports which i have forwarded during these early days to sherlock holmes .
now , however , i have arrived at a point in my narrative where i am compelled to abandon this method and to trust once more to my recollections , aided by the diary which i kept at the time .
a few extracts from the latter will carry me on to those scenes which are indelibly fixed in every detail upon my memory .
i proceed , then , from the morning which followed our abortive chase of the convict and our other strange experiences upon the moor .
october 16th.--a dull and foggy day with a drizzle of rain .
the house is banked in with rolling clouds , which rise now and then to show the dreary curves of the moor , with thin , silver veins upon the sides of the hills , and the distant boulders gleaming where the light strikes upon their wet faces .
it is melancholy outside and in .
the baronet is in a black reaction after the excitements of the night .
i am conscious myself of a weight at my heart and a feeling of impending danger--ever present danger , which is the more terrible because i am unable to define it .
and have i not cause for such a feeling ?
consider the long sequence of incidents which have all pointed to some sinister influence which is at work around us .
there is the death of the last occupant of the hall , fulfilling so exactly the conditions of the family legend , and there are the repeated reports from peasants of the appearance of a strange creature upon the moor .
twice i have with my own ears heard the sound which resembled the distant baying of a hound .
it is incredible , impossible , that it should really be outside the ordinary laws of nature .
a spectral hound which leaves material footmarks and fills the air with its howling is surely not to be thought of .
stapleton may fall in with such a superstition , and mortimer also ; but if i have one quality upon earth it is common-sense , and nothing will persuade me to believe in such a thing .
to do so would be to descend to the level of these poor peasants , who are not content with a mere fiend dog but must needs describe him with hell-fire shooting from his mouth and eyes .
holmes would not listen to such fancies , and i am his agent .
but facts are facts , and i have twice heard this crying upon the moor .
suppose that there were really some huge hound loose upon it ; that would go far to explain everything .
but where could such a hound lie concealed , where did it get its food , where did it come from , how was it that no one saw it by day ?
it must be confessed that the natural explanation offers almost as many difficulties as the other .
and always , apart from the hound , there is the fact of the human agency in london , the man in the cab , and the letter which warned sir henry against the moor .
this at least was real , but it might have been the work of a protecting friend as easily as of an enemy .
where is that friend or enemy now ?
has he remained in london , or has he followed us down here ?
could he--could he be the stranger whom i saw upon the tor ?
it is true that i have had only the one glance at him , and yet there are some things to which i am ready to swear . he is no one whom i have seen down here , and i have now met all the neighbours .
the figure was far taller than that of stapleton , far thinner than that of frankland .
barrymore it might possibly have been , but we had left him behind us , and i am certain that he could not have followed us .
a stranger then is still dogging us , just as a stranger dogged us in london .
we have never shaken him off .
if i could lay my hands upon that man , then at last we might find ourselves at the end of all our difficulties .
to this one purpose i must now devote all my energies .
my first impulse was to tell sir henry all my plans .
my second and wisest one is to play my own game and speak as little as possible to anyone .
he is silent and distrait .
his nerves have been strangely shaken by that sound upon the moor .
i will say nothing to add to his anxieties , but i will take my own steps to attain my own end .
we had a small scene this morning after breakfast .
barrymore asked leave to speak with sir henry , and they were closeted in his study some little time .
sitting in the billiard-room i more than once heard the sound of voices raised , and i had a pretty good idea what the point was which was under discussion .
after a time the baronet opened his door and called for me .
" barrymore considers that he has a grievance , " he said .
" he thinks that it was unfair on our part to hunt his brother-in-law down when he , of his own free will , had told us the secret . "
the butler was standing very pale but very collected before us .
" i may have spoken too warmly , sir , " said he , " and if i have , i am sure that i beg your pardon .
at the same time , i was very much surprised when i heard you two gentlemen come back this morning and learned that you had been chasing selden .
the poor fellow has enough to fight against without my putting more upon his track . "
" if you had told us of your own free will it would have been a different thing , " said the baronet , " you only told us , or rather your wife only told us , when it was forced from you and you could not help yourself . "
" i didn 't think you would have taken advantage of it , sir henry--indeed i didn 't . "
" the man is a public danger .
there are lonely houses scattered over the moor , and he is a fellow who would stick at nothing .
you only want to get a glimpse of his face to see that .
look at mr. stapleton 's house , for example , with no one but himself to defend it .
there 's no safety for anyone until he is under lock and key . "
" he 'll break into no house , sir .
i give you my solemn word upon that .
but he will never trouble anyone in this country again .
i assure you , sir henry , that in a very few days the necessary arrangements will have been made and he will be on his way to south america .
for god 's sake , sir , i beg of you not to let the police know that he is still on the moor .
they have given up the chase there , and he can lie quiet until the ship is ready for him .
you can 't tell on him without getting my wife and me into trouble .
i beg you , sir , to say nothing to the police . "
" what do you say , watson ? "
i shrugged my shoulders . " if he were safely out of the country it would relieve the tax-payer of a burden . "
" but how about the chance of his holding someone up before he goes ? "
" he would not do anything so mad , sir .
we have provided him with all that he can want .
to commit a crime would be to show where he was hiding . "
" that is true , " said sir henry .
" well , barrymore -- "
" god bless you , sir , and thank you from my heart !
it would have killed my poor wife had he been taken again . "
" i guess we are aiding and abetting a felony , watson ?
but , after what we have heard i don 't feel as if i could give the man up , so there is an end of it .
all right , barrymore , you can go . "
with a few broken words of gratitude the man turned , but he hesitated and then came back .
" you 've been so kind to us , sir , that i should like to do the best i can for you in return .
i know something , sir henry , and perhaps i should have said it before , but it was long after the inquest that i found it out .
i 've never breathed a word about it yet to mortal man .
it 's about poor sir charles 's death . "
the baronet and i were both upon our feet .
" do you know how he died ? "
" no , sir , i don 't know that . "
" what then ? "
" i know why he was at the gate at that hour .
it was to meet a woman . "
" to meet a woman !
he ? "
" yes , sir . "
" and the woman 's name ? "
" i can 't give you the name , sir , but i can give you the initials .
her initials were l. l. "
" how do you know this , barrymore ? "
" well , sir henry , your uncle had a letter that morning .
he had usually a great many letters , for he was a public man and well known for his kind heart , so that everyone who was in trouble was glad to turn to him .
but that morning , as it chanced , there was only this one letter , so i took the more notice of it .
it was from coombe tracey , and it was addressed in a woman 's hand . "
" well ? "
" well , sir , i thought no more of the matter , and never would have done had it not been for my wife .
only a few weeks ago she was cleaning out sir charles 's study--it had never been touched since his death--and she found the ashes of a burned letter in the back of the grate .
the greater part of it was charred to pieces , but one little slip , the end of a page , hung together , and the writing could still be read , though it was gray on a black ground .
it seemed to us to be a postscript at the end of the letter , and it said : ' please , please , as you are a gentleman , burn this letter , and be at the gate by ten o clock .
beneath it were signed the initials l. l. "
" have you got that slip ? "
" no , sir , it crumbled all to bits after we moved it . "
" had sir charles received any other letters in the same writing ? "
" well , sir , i took no particular notice of his letters .
i should not have noticed this one , only it happened to come alone . "
" and you have no idea who l. l. is ? "
" no , sir .
no more than you have .
but i expect if we could lay our hands upon that lady we should know more about sir charles 's death . "
" i cannot understand , barrymore , how you came to conceal this important information . "
" well , sir , it was immediately after that our own trouble came to us .
and then again , sir , we were both of us very fond of sir charles , as we well might be considering all that he has done for us .
to rake this up couldn 't help our poor master , and it 's well to go carefully when there 's a lady in the case .
even the best of us ---- "
" you thought it might injure his reputation ? "
" well , sir , i thought no good could come of it .
but now you have been kind to us , and i feel as if it would be treating you unfairly not to tell you all that i know about the matter . "
" very good , barrymore ; you can go . "
when the butler had left us sir henry turned to me .
" well , watson , what do you think of this new light ? "
" it seems to leave the darkness rather blacker than before . "
" so i think .
but if we can only trace l. l. it should clear up the whole business .
we have gained that much . we know that there is someone who has the facts if we can only find her .
what do you think we should do ? "
" let holmes know all about it at once .
it will give him the clue for which he has been seeking .
i am much mistaken if it does not bring him down . "
i went at once to my room and drew up my report of the morning 's conversation for holmes .
it was evident to me that he had been very busy of late , for the notes which i had from baker street were few and short , with no comments upon the information which i had supplied and hardly any reference to my mission .
no doubt his blackmailing case is absorbing all his faculties .
and yet this new factor must surely arrest his attention and renew his interest .
i wish that he were here .
october 17th.--all day to-day the rain poured down , rustling on the ivy and dripping from the eaves .
i thought of the convict out upon the bleak , cold , shelterless moor .
poor devil !
whatever his crimes , he has suffered something to atone for them .
and then i thought of that other one--the face in the cab , the figure against the moon .
was he also out in that deluged--the unseen watcher , the man of darkness ?
in the evening i put on my waterproof and i walked far upon the sodden moor , full of dark imaginings , the rain beating upon my face and the wind whistling about my ears .
god help those who wander into the great mire now , for even the firm uplands are becoming a morass .
i found the black tor upon which i had seen the solitary watcher , and from its craggy summit i looked out myself across the melancholy downs .
rain squalls drifted across their russet face , and the heavy , slate-coloured clouds hung low over the landscape , trailing in gray wreaths down the sides of the fantastic hills .
in the distant hollow on the left , half hidden by the mist , the two thin towers of baskerville hall rose above the trees .
they were the only signs of human life which i could see , save only those prehistoric huts which lay thickly upon the slopes of the hills .
nowhere was there any trace of that lonely man whom i had seen on the same spot two nights before .
as i walked back i was overtaken by dr. mortimer driving in his dog-cart over a rough moorland track which led from the outlying farmhouse of foulmire .
he has been very attentive to us , and hardly a day has passed that he has not called at the hall to see how we were getting on .
he insisted upon my climbing into his dog-cart , and he gave me a lift homeward .
i found him much troubled over the disappearance of his little spaniel . it had wandered on to the moor and had never come back .
i gave him such consolation as i might , but i thought of the pony on the grimpen mire , and i do not fancy that he will see his little dog again .
" by the way , mortimer , " said i as we jolted along the rough road , " i suppose there are few people living within driving distance of this whom you do not know ? "
" hardly any , i think . "
" can you , then , tell me the name of any woman whose initials are l. l. ? "
he thought for a few minutes .
" no , " said he .
" there are a few gipsies and labouring folk for whom i can 't answer , but among the farmers or gentry there is no one whose initials are those .
wait a bit though , " he added after a pause . " there is laura lyons--her initials are l. l.--but she lives in coombe tracey . "
" who is she ? " i asked .
" she is frankland 's daughter . "
" what ! old frankland the crank ? "
" exactly . she married an artist named lyons , who came sketching on the moor .
he proved to be a blackguard and deserted her .
the fault from what i hear may not have been entirely on one side .
her father refused to have anything to do with her because she had married without his consent , and perhaps for one or two other reasons as well .
so , between the old sinner and the young one the girl has had a pretty bad time . "
" how does she live ? "
" i fancy old frankland allows her a pittance , but it cannot be more , for his own affairs are considerably involved .
whatever she may have deserved one could not allow her to go hopelessly to the bad .
her story got about , and several of the people here did something to enable her to earn an honest living .
stapleton did for one , and sir charles for another .
i gave a trifle myself .
it was to set her up in a typewriting business . "
he wanted to know the object of my inquiries , but i managed to satisfy his curiosity without telling him too much , for there is no reason why we should take anyone into our confidence .
to-morrow morning i shall find my way to coombe tracey , and if i can see this mrs. laura lyons , of equivocal reputation , a long step will have been made towards clearing one incident in this chain of mysteries .
i am certainly developing the wisdom of the serpent , for when mortimer pressed his questions to an inconvenient extent i asked him casually to what type frankland 's skull belonged , and so heard nothing but craniology for the rest of our drive .
i have not lived for years with sherlock holmes for nothing .
i have only one other incident to record upon this tempestuous and melancholy day .
this was my conversation with barrymore just now , which gives me one more strong card which i can play in due time .
mortimer had stayed to dinner , and he and the baronet played ecart & sbquo ; afterwards .
the butler brought me my coffee into the library , and i took the chance to ask him a few questions .
" well , " said i , " has this precious relation of yours departed , or is he still lurking out yonder ? "
" i don 't know , sir .
i hope to heaven that he has gone , for he has brought nothing but trouble here !
i 've not heard of him since i left out food for him last , and that was three days ago . "
" did you see him then ? "
" no , sir , but the food was gone when next i went that way . "
" then he was certainly there ? "
" so you would think , sir , unless it was the other man who took it . "
i sat with my coffee-cup halfway to my lips and stared at barrymore .
" you know that there is another man then ? "
" yes , sir ; there is another man upon the moor . "
" have you seen him ? "
" no , sir . "
" how do you know of him then ? "
" selden told me of him , sir , a week ago or more .
he 's in hiding , too , but he 's not a convict as far as i can make out .
i don 't like it , dr. watson--i tell you straight , sir , that i don 't like it . "
he spoke with a sudden passion of earnestness .
" now , listen to me , barrymore !
i have no interest in this matter but that of your master .
i have come here with no object except to help him .
tell me , frankly , what it is that you don 't like . "
barrymore hesitated for a moment , as if he regretted his outburst , or found it difficult to express his own feelings in words .
" it 's all these goings-on , sir , " he cried at last , waving his hand towards the rain-lashed window which faced the moor .
" there 's foul play somewhere , and there 's black villainy brewing , to that i 'll swear !
very glad i should be , sir , to see sir henry on his way back to london again ! "
" but what is it that alarms you ? "
" look at sir charles 's death !
that was bad enough , for all that the coroner said .
look at the noises on the moor at night .
there 's not a man would cross it after sundown if he was paid for it .
look at this stranger hiding out yonder , and watching and waiting !
what 's he waiting for ?
what does it mean ?
it means no good to anyone of the name of baskerville , and very glad i shall be to be quit of it all on the day that sir henry 's new servants are ready to take over the hall . "
" but about this stranger , " said i. " can you tell me anything about him ?
what did selden say ?
did he find out where he hid , or what he was doing ? "
" he saw him once or twice , but he is a deep one , and gives nothing away .
at first he thought that he was the police , but soon he found that he had some lay of his own .
a kind of gentleman he was , as far as he could see , but what he was doing he could not make out . "
" and where did he say that he lived ? "
" among the old houses on the hillside--the stone huts where the old folk used to live . "
" but how about his food ? "
" selden found out that he has got a lad who works for him and brings him all he needs .
i dare say he goes to coombe tracey for what he wants . "
" very good , barrymore .
we may talk further of this some other time . "
when the butler had gone i walked over to the black window , and i looked through a blurred pane at the driving clouds and at the tossing outline of the wind-swept trees .
it is a wild night indoors , and what must it be in a stone hut upon the moor .
what passion of hatred can it be which leads a man to lurk in such a place at such a time !
and what deep and earnest purpose can he have which calls for such a trial !
there , in that hut upon the moor , seems to lie the very centre of that problem which has vexed me so sorely .
i swear that another day shall not have passed before i have done all that man can do to reach the heart of the mystery .
chapter 11 the man on the tor
the extract from my private diary which forms the last chapter has brought my narrative up to the 18th of october , a time when these strange events began to move swiftly towards their terrible conclusion .
the incidents of the next few days are indelibly graven upon my recollection , and i can tell them without reference to the notes made at the time .
i start then from the day which succeeded that upon which i had established two facts of great importance , the one that mrs. laura lyons of coombe tracey had written to sir charles baskerville and made an appointment with him at the very place and hour that he met his death , the other that the lurking man upon the moor was to be found among the stone huts upon the hill-side .
with these two facts in my possession i felt that either my intelligence or my courage must be deficient if i could not throw some further light upon these dark places .
i had no opportunity to tell the baronet what i had learned about mrs. lyons upon the evening before , for dr. mortimer remained with him at cards until it was very late .
at breakfast , however , i informed him about my discovery , and asked him whether he would care to accompany me to coombe tracey .
at first he was very eager to come , but on second thoughts it seemed to both of us that if i went alone the results might be better .
the more formal we made the visit the less information we might obtain .
i left sir henry behind , therefore , not without some prickings of conscience , and drove off upon my new quest .
when i reached coombe tracey i told perkins to put up the horses , and i made inquiries for the lady whom i had come to interrogate . i had no difficulty in finding her rooms , which were central and well appointed .
a maid showed me in without ceremony , and as i entered the sitting-room a lady , who was sitting before a remington typewriter , sprang up with a pleasant smile of welcome .
her face fell , however , when she saw that i was a stranger , and she sat down again and asked me the object of my visit .
the first impression left by mrs. lyons was one of extreme beauty .
her eyes and hair were of the same rich hazel colour , and her cheeks , though considerably freckled , were flushed with the exquisite bloom of the brunette , the dainty pink which lurks at the heart of the sulphur rose . admiration was , i repeat , the first impression .
but the second was criticism . there was something subtly wrong with the face , some coarseness of expression , some hardness , perhaps , of eye , some looseness of lip which marred its perfect beauty .
but these , of course , are after-thoughts . at the moment i was simply conscious that i was in the presence of a very handsome woman , and that she was asking me the reasons for my visit .
i had not quite understood until that instant how delicate my mission was .
" i have the pleasure , " said i , " of knowing your father . "
it was a clumsy introduction , and the lady made me feel it .
" there is nothing in common between my father and me , " she said .
" i owe him nothing , and his friends are not mine .
if it were not for the late sir charles baskerville and some other kind hearts i might have starved for all that my father cared . "
" it was about the late sir charles baskerville that i have come here to see you . "
the freckles started out on the lady 's face .
" what can i tell you about him ? " she asked , and her fingers played nervously over the stops of her typewriter .
" you knew him , did you not ? "
" i have already said that i owe a great deal to his kindness .
if i am able to support myself it is largely due to the interest which he took in my unhappy situation . "
" did you correspond with him ? "
the lady looked quickly up with an angry gleam in her hazel eyes .
" what is the object of these questions ? " she asked sharply .
" the object is to avoid a public scandal . it is better that i should ask them here than that the matter should pass outside our control . "
she was silent and her face was still very pale .
at last she looked up with something reckless and defiant in her manner .
" well , i 'll answer , " she said .
" what are your questions ? "
" did you correspond with sir charles ? "
" i certainly wrote to him once or twice to acknowledge his delicacy and his generosity . "
" have you the dates of those letters ? "
" no . "
" have you ever met him ? "
" yes , once or twice , when he came into coombe tracey .
he was a very retiring man , and he preferred to do good by stealth . "
" but if you saw him so seldom and wrote so seldom , how did he know enough about your affairs to be able to help you , as you say that he has done ? "
she met my difficulty with the utmost readiness .
" there were several gentlemen who knew my sad history and united to help me .
one was mr. stapleton , a neighbour and intimate friend of sir charles 's .
he was exceedingly kind , and it was through him that sir charles learned about my affairs . "
i knew already that sir charles baskerville had made stapleton his almoner upon several occasions , so the lady 's statement bore the impress of truth upon it .
" did you ever write to sir charles asking him to meet you ? " i continued .
mrs. lyons flushed with anger again .
" really , sir , this is a very extraordinary question . "
" i am sorry , madam , but i must repeat it . "
" then i answer , certainly not . "
" not on the very day of sir charles 's death ? "
the flush had faded in an instant , and a deathly face was before me .
her dry lips could not speak the " no " which i saw rather than heard .
" surely your memory deceives you , " said i .
" i could even quote a passage of your letter . it ran ' please , please , as you are a gentleman , burn this letter , and be at the gate by ten o 'clock . ' "
i thought that she had fainted , but she recovered herself by a supreme effort .
" is there no such thing as a gentleman ? " she gasped .
" you do sir charles an injustice .
he did burn the letter .
but sometimes a letter may be legible even when burned .
you acknowledge now that you wrote it ? "
" yes , i did write it , " she cried , pouring out her soul in a torrent of words .
" i did write it .
why should i deny it ?
i have no reason to be ashamed of it .
i wished him to help me .
i believed that if i had an interview i could gain his help , so i asked him to meet me . "
" but why at such an hour ? "
" because i had only just learned that he was going to london next day and might be away for months .
there were reasons why i could not get there earlier . "
" but why a rendezvous in the garden instead of a visit to the house ? "
" do you think a woman could go alone at that hour to a bachelor 's house ? "
" well , what happened when you did get there ? "
" i never went . "
" mrs. lyons ! "
" no , i swear it to you on all i hold sacred .
i never went .
something intervened to prevent my going . "
" what was that ? "
" that is a private matter .
i cannot tell it . "
" you acknowledge then that you made an appointment with sir charles at the very hour and place at which he met his death , but you deny that you kept the appointment . "
" that is the truth . "
again and again i cross-questioned her , but i could never get past that point .
" mrs. lyons , " said i , as i rose from this long and inconclusive interview , " you are taking a very great responsibility and putting yourself in a very false position by not making an absolutely clean breast of all that you know .
if i have to call in the aid of the police you will find how seriously you are compromised .
if your position is innocent , why did you in the first instance deny having written to sir charles upon that date ? "
" because i feared that some false conclusion might be drawn from it and that i might find myself involved in a scandal . "
" and why were you so pressing that sir charles should destroy your letter ? "
" if you have read the letter you will know . "
" i did not say that i had read all the letter . "
" you quoted some of it . "
" i quoted the postscript .
the letter had , as i said , been burned and it was not all legible .
i ask you once again why it was that you were so pressing that sir charles should destroy this letter which he received on the day of his death . "
" the matter is a very private one . "
" the more reason why you should avoid a public investigation . "
" i will tell you , then .
if you have heard anything of my unhappy history you will know that i made a rash marriage and had reason to regret it . "
" i have heard so much . "
" my life has been one incessant persecution from a husband whom i abhor .
the law is upon his side , and every day i am faced by the possibility that he may force me to live with him .
at the time that i wrote this letter to sir charles i had learned that there was a prospect of my regaining my freedom if certain expenses could be met .
it meant everything to me--peace of mind , happiness , self-respect--everything .
i knew sir charles 's generosity , and i thought that if he heard the story from my own lips he would help me . "
" then how is it that you did not go ? "
" because i received help in the interval from another source . "
" why then , did you not write to sir charles and explain this ? "
" so i should have done had i not seen his death in the paper next morning . "
the woman 's story hung coherently together , and all my questions were unable to shake it .
i could only check it by finding if she had , indeed , instituted divorce proceedings against her husband at or about the time of the tragedy .
it was unlikely that she would dare to say that she had not been to baskerville hall if she really had been , for a trap would be necessary to take her there , and could not have returned to coombe tracey until the early hours of the morning .
such an excursion could not be kept secret .
the probability was , therefore , that she was telling the truth , or , at least , a part of the truth .
i came away baffled and disheartened .
once again i had reached that dead wall which seemed to be built across every path by which i tried to get at the object of my mission .
and yet the more i thought of the lady 's face and of her manner the more i felt that something was being held back from me .
why should she turn so pale ?
why should she fight against every admission until it was forced from her ?
why should she have been so reticent at the time of the tragedy ?
surely the explanation of all this could not be as innocent as she would have me believe .
for the moment i could proceed no farther in that direction , but must turn back to that other clue which was to be sought for among the stone huts upon the moor .
and that was a most vague direction .
i realized it as i drove back and noted how hill after hill showed traces of the ancient people .
barrymore 's only indication had been that the stranger lived in one of these abandoned huts , and many hundreds of them are scattered throughout the length and breadth of the moor .
but i had my own experience for a guide since it had shown me the man himself standing upon the summit of the black tor .
that then should be the centre of my search .
from there i should explore every hut upon the moor until i lighted upon the right one .
if this man were inside it i should find out from his own lips , at the point of my revolver if necessary , who he was and why he had dogged us so long .
he might slip away from us in the crowd of regent street , but it would puzzle him to do so upon the lonely moor .
on the other hand , if i should find the hut and its tenant should not be within it i must remain there , however long the vigil , until he returned .
holmes had missed him in london .
it would indeed be a triumph for me if i could run him to earth , where my master had failed .
luck had been against us again and again in this inquiry , but now at last it came to my aid . and the messenger of good fortune was none other than mr. frankland , who was standing , gray-whiskered and red-faced , outside the gate of his garden , which opened on to the high road along which i travelled .
" good-day , dr. watson , " cried he with unwonted good humour , " you must really give your horses a rest , and come in to have a glass of wine and to congratulate me . "
my feelings towards him were very far from being friendly after what i had heard of his treatment of his daughter , but i was anxious to send perkins and the wagonette home , and the opportunity was a good one .
i alighted and sent a message to sir henry that i should walk over in time for dinner .
then i followed frankland into his dining-room .
" it is a great day for me , sir--one of the red-letter days of my life , " he cried with many chuckles .
" i have brought off a double event .
i mean to teach them in these parts that law is law , and that there is a man here who does not fear to invoke it .
i have established a right of way through the centre of old middleton 's park , slap across it , sir , within a hundred yards of his own front door .
what do you think of that ?
we 'll teach these magnates that they cannot ride roughshod over the rights of the commoners , confound them !
and i 've closed the wood where the fernworthy folk used to picnic .
these infernal people seem to think that there are no rights of property , and that they can swarm where they like with their papers and their bottles .
both cases decided , dr. watson , and both in my favour .
i haven 't had such a day since i had sir john morland for trespass , because he shot in his own warren . "
" how on earth did you do that ? "
" look it up in the books , sir .
it will repay reading--frankland v. morland , court of queen 's bench . it cost me 200 pounds , but i got my verdict . "
" did it do you any good ? "
" none , sir , none .
i am proud to say that i had no interest in the matter .
i act entirely from a sense of public duty .
i have no doubt , for example , that the fernworthy people will burn me in effigy to-night .
i told the police last time they did it that they should stop these disgraceful exhibitions .
the county constabulary is in a scandalous state , sir , and it has not afforded me the protection to which i am entitled .
the case of frankland v. regina will bring the matter before the attention of the public .
i told them that they would have occasion to regret their treatment of me , and already my words have come true . "
" how so ? " i asked .
the old man put on a very knowing expression .
" because i could tell them what they are dying to know ; but nothing would induce me to help the rascals in any way . "
i had been casting round for some excuse by which i could get away from his gossip , but now i began to wish to hear more of it .
i had seen enough of the contrary nature of the old sinner to understand that any strong sign of interest would be the surest way to stop his confidences .
" some poaching case , no doubt ? " said i , with an indifferent manner .
" ha , ha , my boy , a very much more important matter than that !
what about the convict on the moor ? "
i started .
" you don 't mean that you know where he is ? " said i .
" i may not know exactly where he is , but i am quite sure that i could help the police to lay their hands on him .
has it never struck you that the way to catch that man was to find out where he got his food , and so trace it to him ? "
he certainly seemed to be getting uncomfortably near the truth .
" no doubt , " said i ; " but how do you know that he is anywhere upon the moor ? "
" i know it because i have seen with my own eyes the messenger who takes him his food . "
my heart sank for barrymore .
it was a serious thing to be in the power of this spiteful old busybody .
but his next remark took a weight from my mind .
" you 'll be surprised to hear that his food is taken to him by a child .
i see him every day through my telescope upon the roof .
he passes along the same path at the same hour , and to whom should he be going except to the convict ? "
here was luck indeed !
and yet i suppressed all appearance of interest .
a child !
barrymore had said that our unknown was supplied by a boy .
it was on his track , and not upon the convict 's , that frankland had stumbled .
if i could get his knowledge it might save me a long and weary hunt .
but incredulity and indifference were evidently my strongest cards .
" i should say that it was much more likely that it was the son of one of the moorland shepherds taking out his father 's dinner . "
the least appearance of opposition struck fire out of the old autocrat .
his eyes looked malignantly at me , and his gray whiskers bristled like those of an angry cat .
" indeed , sir ! " said he , pointing out over the wide-stretching moor .
" do you see that black tor over yonder ?
well , do you see the low hill beyond with the thornbush upon it ?
it is the stoniest part of the whole moor .
is that a place where a shepherd would be likely to take his station ?
your suggestion , sir , is a most absurd one . "
i meekly answered that i had spoken without knowing all the facts .
my submission pleased him and led him to further confidences .
" you may be sure , sir , that i have very good grounds before i come to an opinion .
i have seen the boy again and again with his bundle .
every day , and sometimes twice a day , i have been able--but wait a moment , dr. watson .
do my eyes deceive me , or is there at the present moment something moving upon that hill- side ? "
it was several miles off , but i could distinctly see a small dark dot against the dull green and gray .
" come , sir , come ! " cried frankland , rushing upstairs .
" you will see with your own eyes and judge for yourself . "
the telescope , a formidable instrument mounted upon a tripod , stood upon the flat leads of the house .
frankland clapped his eye to it and gave a cry of satisfaction .
" quick , dr. watson , quick , before he passes over the hill ! "
there he was , sure enough , a small urchin with a little bundle upon his shoulder , toiling slowly up the hill .
when he reached the crest i saw the ragged uncouth figure outlined for an instant against the cold blue sky .
he looked round him with a furtive and stealthy air , as one who dreads pursuit .
then he vanished over the hill .
" well ! am i right ? "
" certainly , there is a boy who seems to have some secret errand . "
" and what the errand is even a county constable could guess .
but not one word shall they have from me , and i bind you to secrecy also , dr. watson .
not a word !
you understand ! "
" just as you wish . "
" they have treated me shamefully--shamefully .
when the facts come out in frankland v. regina i venture to think that a thrill of indignation will run through the country .
nothing would induce me to help the police in any way .
for all they cared it might have been me , instead of my effigy , which these rascals burned at the stake .
surely you are not going !
you will help me to empty the decanter in honour of this great occasion ! "
but i resisted all his solicitations and succeeded in dissuading him from his announced intention of walking home with me .
i kept the road as long as his eye was on me , and then i struck off across the moor and made for the stony hill over which the boy had disappeared .
everything was working in my favour , and i swore that it should not be through lack of energy or perseverance that i should miss the chance which fortune had thrown in my way .
the sun was already sinking when i reached the summit of the hill , and the long slopes beneath me were all golden-green on one side and gray shadow on the other .
a haze lay low upon the farthest sky-line , out of which jutted the fantastic shapes of belliver and vixen tor .
over the wide expanse there was no sound and no movement .
one great gray bird , a gull or curlew , soared aloft in the blue heaven .
he and i seemed to be the only living things between the huge arch of the sky and the desert beneath it .
the barren scene , the sense of loneliness , and the mystery and urgency of my task all struck a chill into my heart .
the boy was nowhere to be seen .
but down beneath me in a cleft of the hills there was a circle of the old stone huts , and in the middle of them there was one which retained sufficient roof to act as a screen against the weather .
my heart leaped within me as i saw it .
this must be the burrow where the stranger lurked .
at last my foot was on the threshold of his hiding place--his secret was within my grasp .
as i approached the hut , walking as warily as stapleton would do when with poised net he drew near the settled butterfly , i satisfied myself that the place had indeed been used as a habitation .
a vague pathway among the boulders led to the dilapidated opening which served as a door .
all was silent within .
the unknown might be lurking there , or he might be prowling on the moor .
my nerves tingled with the sense of adventure .
throwing aside my cigarette , i closed my hand upon the butt of my revolver and , walking swiftly up to the door , i looked in .
the place was empty .
but there were ample signs that i had not come upon a false scent .
this was certainly where the man lived .
some blankets rolled in a waterproof lay upon that very stone slab upon which neolithic man had once slumbered .
the ashes of a fire were heaped in a rude grate . beside it lay some cooking utensils and a bucket half-full of water .
a litter of empty tins showed that the place had been occupied for some time , and i saw , as my eyes became accustomed to the checkered light , a pannikin and a half-full bottle of spirits standing in the corner .
in the middle of the hut a flat stone served the purpose of a table , and upon this stood a small cloth bundle--the same , no doubt , which i had seen through the telescope upon the shoulder of the boy .
it contained a loaf of bread , a tinned tongue , and two tins of preserved peaches .
as i set it down again , after having examined it , my heart leaped to see that beneath it there lay a sheet of paper with writing upon it .
i raised it , and this was what i read , roughly scrawled in pencil : --
dr. watson has gone to coombe tracey .
for a minute i stood there with the paper in my hands thinking out the meaning of this curt message .
it was i , then , and not sir henry , who was being dogged by this secret man .
he had not followed me himself , but he had set an agent--the boy , perhaps--upon my track , and this was his report .
possibly i had taken no step since i had been upon the moor which had not been observed and reported .
always there was this feeling of an unseen force , a fine net drawn round us with infinite skill and delicacy , holding us so lightly that it was only at some supreme moment that one realized that one was indeed entangled in its meshes .
if there was one report there might be others , so i looked round the hut in search of them .
there was no trace , however , of anything of the kind , nor could i discover any sign which might indicate the character or intentions of the man who lived in this singular place , save that he must be of spartan habits and cared little for the comforts of life .
when i thought of the heavy rains and looked at the gaping roof i understood how strong and immutable must be the purpose which had kept him in that inhospitable abode .
was he our malignant enemy , or was he by chance our guardian angel ?
i swore that i would not leave the hut until i knew .
outside the sun was sinking low and the west was blazing with scarlet and gold . its reflection was shot back in ruddy patches by the distant pools which lay amid the great grimpen mire .
there were the two towers of baskerville hall , and there a distant blur of smoke which marked the village of grimpen .
between the two , behind the hill , was the house of the stapletons .
all was sweet and mellow and peaceful in the golden evening light , and yet as i looked at them my soul shared none of the peace of nature but quivered at the vagueness and the terror of that interview which every instant was bringing nearer .
with tingling nerves , but a fixed purpose , i sat in the dark recess of the hut and waited with sombre patience for the coming of its tenant .
and then at last i heard him .
far away came the sharp clink of a boot striking upon a stone . then another and yet another , coming nearer and nearer .
i shrank back into the darkest corner , and cocked the pistol in my pocket , determined not to discover myself until i had an opportunity of seeing something of the stranger .
there was a long pause which showed that he had stopped .
then once more the footsteps approached and a shadow fell across the opening of the hut .
" it is a lovely evening , my dear watson , " said a well-known voice .
" i really think that you will be more comfortable outside than in . "
chapter 12 death on the moor
for a moment or two i sat breathless , hardly able to believe my ears .
then my senses and my voice came back to me , while a crushing weight of responsibility seemed in an instant to be lifted from my soul .
that cold , incisive , ironical voice could belong to but one man in all the world .
" holmes ! "
i cried-- " holmes ! "
" come out , " said he , " and please be careful with the revolver . "
i stooped under the rude lintel , and there he sat upon a stone outside , his gray eyes dancing with amusement as they fell upon my astonished features .
he was thin and worn , but clear and alert , his keen face bronzed by the sun and roughened by the wind .
in his tweed suit and cloth cap he looked like any other tourist upon the moor , and he had contrived , with that cat-like love of personal cleanliness which was one of his characteristics , that his chin should be as smooth and his linen as perfect as if he were in baker street .
" i never was more glad to see anyone in my life , " said i , as i wrung him by the hand .
" or more astonished , eh ? "
" well , i must confess to it . "
" the surprise was not all on one side , i assure you .
i had no idea that you had found my occasional retreat , still less that you were inside it , until i was within twenty paces of the door . "
" my footprint , i presume ? "
" no , watson ; i fear that i could not undertake to recognize your footprint amid all the footprints of the world .
if you seriously desire to deceive me you must change your tobacconist ; for when i see the stub of a cigarette marked bradley , oxford street , i know that my friend watson is in the neighbourhood .
you will see it there beside the path .
you threw it down , no doubt , at that supreme moment when you charged into the empty hut . "
" exactly . "
" i thought as much--and knowing your admirable tenacity i was convinced that you were sitting in ambush , a weapon within reach , waiting for the tenant to return .
so you actually thought that i was the criminal ? "
" i did not know who you were , but i was determined to find out . "
" excellent , watson !
and how did you localize me ?
you saw me , perhaps , on the night of the convict hunt , when i was so imprudent as to allow the moon to rise behind me ? "
" yes , i saw you then . "
" and have no doubt searched all the huts until you came to this one ? "
" no , your boy had been observed , and that gave me a guide where to look . "
" the old gentleman with the telescope , no doubt .
i could not make it out when first i saw the light flashing upon the lens . " he rose and peeped into the hut .
" ha , i see that cartwright has brought up some supplies .
what 's this paper ?
so you have been to coombe tracey , have you ? "
" yes . "
" to see mrs. laura lyons ? "
" exactly . "
" well done !
our researches have evidently been running on parallel lines , and when we unite our results i expect we shall have a fairly full knowledge of the case . "
" well , i am glad from my heart that you are here , for indeed the responsibility and the mystery were both becoming too much for my nerves .
but how in the name of wonder did you come here , and what have you been doing ?
i thought that you were in baker street working out that case of blackmailing . "
" that was what i wished you to think . "
" then you use me , and yet do not trust me ! " i cried with some bitterness .
" i think that i have deserved better at your hands , holmes . "
" my dear fellow , you have been invaluable to me in this as in many other cases , and i beg that you will forgive me if i have seemed to play a trick upon you .
in truth , it was partly for your own sake that i did it , and it was my appreciation of the danger which you ran which led me to come down and examine the matter for myself .
had i been with sir henry and you it is confident that my point of view would have been the same as yours , and my presence would have warned our very formidable opponents to be on their guard .
as it is , i have been able to get about as i could not possibly have done had i been living in the hall , and i remain an unknown factor in the business , ready to throw in all my weight at a critical moment . "
" but why keep me in the dark ? "
" for you to know could not have helped us , and might possibly have led to my discovery .
you would have wished to tell me something , or in your kindness you would have brought me out some comfort or other , and so an unnecessary risk would be run .
i brought cartwright down with me--you remember the little chap at the express office--and he has seen after my simple wants : a loaf of bread and a clean collar .
what does man want more ?
he has given me an extra pair of eyes upon a very active pair of feet , and both have been invaluable . "
" then my reports have all been wasted ! " --my voice trembled as i recalled the pains and the pride with which i had composed them .
holmes took a bundle of papers from his pocket .
" here are your reports , my dear fellow , and very well thumbed , i assure you .
i made excellent arrangements , and they are only delayed one day upon their way .
i must compliment you exceedingly upon the zeal and the intelligence which you have shown over an extraordinarily difficult case . "
i was still rather raw over the deception which had been practised upon me , but the warmth of holmes 's praise drove my anger from my mind .
i felt also in my heart that he was right in what he said and that it was really best for our purpose that i should not have known that he was upon the moor .
" that 's better , " said he , seeing the shadow rise from my face .
" and now tell me the result of your visit to mrs. laura lyons--it was not difficult for me to guess that it was to see her that you had gone , for i am already aware that she is the one person in coombe tracey who might be of service to us in the matter .
in fact , if you had not gone to-day it is exceedingly probable that i should have gone to-morrow . "
the sun had set and dusk was settling over the moor .
the air had turned chill and we withdrew into the hut for warmth .
there , sitting together in the twilight , i told holmes of my conversation with the lady .
so interested was he that i had to repeat some of it twice before he was satisfied .
" this is most important , " said he when i had concluded . " it fills up a gap which i had been unable to bridge , in this most complex affair .
you are aware , perhaps , that a close intimacy exists between this lady and the man stapleton ? "
" i did not know of a close intimacy . "
" there can be no doubt about the matter .
they meet , they write , there is a complete understanding between them .
now , this puts a very powerful weapon into our hands .
if i could only use it to detach his wife---- "
" his wife ? "
" i am giving you some information now , in return for all that you have given me .
the lady who has passed here as miss stapleton is in reality his wife . "
" good heavens , holmes !
are you sure of what you say ?
how could he have permitted sir henry to fall in love with her ? "
" sir henry 's falling in love could do no harm to anyone except sir henry .
he took particular care that sir henry did not make love to her , as you have yourself observed .
i repeat that the lady is his wife and not his sister . "
" but why this elaborate deception ? "
" because he foresaw that she would be very much more useful to him in the character of a free woman . "
all my unspoken instincts , my vague suspicions , suddenly took shape and centred upon the naturalist .
in that impassive , colourless man , with his straw hat and his butterfly-net , i seemed to see something terrible--a creature of infinite patience and craft , with a smiling face and a murderous heart .
" it is he , then , who is our enemy--it is he who dogged us in london ? "
" so i read the riddle . "
" and the warning--it must have come from her ! "
" exactly . "
the shape of some monstrous villainy , half seen , half guessed , loomed through the darkness which had girt me so long .
" but are you sure of this , holmes ?
how do you know that the woman is his wife ? "
" because he so far forgot himself as to tell you a true piece of autobiography upon the occasion when he first met you , and i dare say he has many a time regretted it since .
he was once a schoolmaster in the north of england .
now , there is no one more easy to trace than a schoolmaster .
there are scholastic agencies by which one may identify any man who has been in the profession .
a little investigation showed me that a school had come to grief under atrocious circumstances , and that the man who had owned it--the name was different--had disappeared with his wife .
the descriptions agreed .
when i learned that the missing man was devoted to entomology the identification was complete . "
the darkness was rising , but much was still hidden by the shadows .
" if this woman is in truth his wife , where does mrs. laura lyons come in ? " i asked .
" that is one of the points upon which your own researches have shed a light .
your interview with the lady has cleared the situation very much .
i did not know about a projected divorce between herself and her husband .
in that case , regarding stapleton as an unmarried man , she counted no doubt upon becoming his wife . "
" and when she is undeceived ? "
" why , then we may find the lady of service .
it must be our first duty to see her--both of us--to-morrow .
don 't you think , watson , that you are away from your charge rather long ?
your place should be at baskerville hall . "
the last red streaks had faded away in the west and night had settled upon the moor .
a few faint stars were gleaming in a violet sky .
" one last question , holmes , " i said , as i rose .
" surely there is no need of secrecy between you and me .
what is the meaning of it all ?
what is he after ? "
holmes 's voice sank as he answered : ----
" it is murder , watson--refined , cold-blooded , deliberate murder .
do not ask me for particulars .
my nets are closing upon him , even as his are upon sir henry , and with your help he is already almost at my mercy .
there is but one danger which can threaten us .
it is that he should strike before we are ready to do so .
another day--two at the most--and i have my case complete , but until then guard your charge as closely as ever a fond mother watched her ailing child .
your mission to-day has justified itself , and yet i could almost wish that you had not left his side . hark ! "
a terrible scream--a prolonged yell of horror and anguish--burst out of the silence of the moor . that frightful cry turned the blood to ice in my veins .
" oh , my god ! " i gasped .
" what is it ?
what does it mean ? "
holmes had sprung to his feet , and i saw his dark , athletic outline at the door of the hut , his shoulders stooping , his head thrust forward , his face peering into the darkness .
" hush ! " he whispered . " hush ! "
the cry had been loud on account of its vehemence , but it had pealed out from somewhere far off on the shadowy plain .
now it burst upon our ears , nearer , louder , more urgent than before .
" where is it ? "
holmes whispered ; and i knew from the thrill of his voice that he , the man of iron , was shaken to the soul .
" where is it , watson ? "
" there , i think . " i pointed into the darkness .
" no , there ! "
again the agonized cry swept through the silent night , louder and much nearer than ever .
and a new sound mingled with it , a deep , muttered rumble , musical and yet menacing , rising and falling like the low , constant murmur of the sea .
" the hound ! " cried holmes .
" come , watson , come !
great heavens , if we are too late ! "
he had started running swiftly over the moor , and i had followed at his heels .
but now from somewhere among the broken ground immediately in front of us there came one last despairing yell , and then a dull , heavy thud .
we halted and listened .
not another sound broke the heavy silence of the windless night .
i saw holmes put his hand to his forehead like a man distracted .
he stamped his feet upon the ground .
" he has beaten us , watson .
we are too late . "
" no , no , surely not ! "
" fool that i was to hold my hand .
and you , watson , see what comes of abandoning your charge !
but , by heaven , if the worst has happened , we 'll avenge him ! "
blindly we ran through the gloom , blundering against boulders , forcing our way through gorse bushes , panting up hills and rushing down slopes , heading always in the direction whence those dreadful sounds had come .
at every rise holmes looked eagerly round him , but the shadows were thick upon the moor , and nothing moved upon its dreary face .
" can you see anything ? "
" nothing . "
" but , hark , what is that ? "
a low moan had fallen upon our ears .
there it was again upon our left ! on that side a ridge of rocks ended in a sheer cliff which overlooked a stone-strewn slope .
on its jagged face was spread-eagled some dark , irregular object .
as we ran towards it the vague outline hardened into a definite shape . it was a prostrate man face downward upon the ground , the head doubled under him at a horrible angle , the shoulders rounded and the body hunched together as if in the act of throwing a somersault .
so grotesque was the attitude that i could not for the instant realize that that moan had been the passing of his soul .
not a whisper , not a rustle , rose now from the dark figure over which we stooped .
holmes laid his hand upon him , and held it up again , with an exclamation of horror .
the gleam of the match which he struck shone upon his clotted fingers and upon the ghastly pool which widened slowly from the crushed skull of the victim .
and it shone upon something else which turned our hearts sick and faint within us--the body of sir henry baskerville !
there was no chance of either of us forgetting that peculiar ruddy tweed suit--the very one which he had worn on the first morning that we had seen him in baker street .
we caught the one clear glimpse of it , and then the match flickered and went out , even as the hope had gone out of our souls .
holmes groaned , and his face glimmered white through the darkness .
" the brute ! the brute ! "
i cried with clenched hands .
" oh holmes , i shall never forgive myself for having left him to his fate . "
" i am more to blame than you , watson .
in order to have my case well rounded and complete , i have thrown away the life of my client .
it is the greatest blow which has befallen me in my career .
but how could i know--how could l know--that he would risk his life alone upon the moor in the face of all my warnings ? "
" that we should have heard his screams--my god , those screams ! --and yet have been unable to save him !
where is this brute of a hound which drove him to his death ?
it may be lurking among these rocks at this instant . and stapleton , where is he ?
he shall answer for this deed . "
" he shall .
i will see to that .
uncle and nephew have been murdered--the one frightened to death by the very sight of a beast which he thought to be supernatural , the other driven to his end in his wild flight to escape from it .
but now we have to prove the connection between the man and the beast .
save from what we heard , we cannot even swear to the existence of the latter , since sir henry has evidently died from the fall .
but , by heavens , cunning as he is , the fellow shall be in my power before another day is past ! "
we stood with bitter hearts on either side of the mangled body , overwhelmed by this sudden and irrevocable disaster which had brought all our long and weary labours to so piteous an end .
then , as the moon rose we climbed to the top of the rocks over which our poor friend had fallen , and from the summit we gazed out over the shadowy moor , half silver and half gloom .
far away , miles off , in the direction of grimpen , a single steady yellow light was shining . it could only come from the lonely abode of the stapletons .
with a bitter curse i shook my fist at it as i gazed .
" why should we not seize him at once ? "
" our case is not complete .
the fellow is wary and cunning to the last degree .
it is not what we know , but what we can prove .
if we make one false move the villain may escape us yet . "
" what can we do ? "
" there will be plenty for us to do to-morrow .
to-night we can only perform the last offices to our poor friend . "
together we made our way down the precipitous slope and approached the body , black and clear against the silvered stones .
the agony of those contorted limbs struck me with a spasm of pain and blurred my eyes with tears .
" we must send for help , holmes !
we cannot carry him all the way to the hall .
good heavens , are you mad ? "
he had uttered a cry and bent over the body . now he was dancing and laughing and wringing my hand .
could this be my stern , self-contained friend ?
these were hidden fires , indeed !
" a beard ! a beard !
the man has a beard ! "
" it is not the baronet--it is--why , it is my neighbour , the convict ! "
with feverish haste we had turned the body over , and that dripping beard was pointing up to the cold , clear moon .
there could be no doubt about the beetling forehead , the sunken animal eyes . it was indeed the same face which had glared upon me in the light of the candle from over the rock--the face of selden , the criminal .
then in an instant it was all clear to me .
i remembered how the baronet had told me that he had handed his old wardrobe to barrymore .
barrymore had passed it on in order to help selden in his escape .
boots , shirt , cap--it was all sir henry 's .
the tragedy was still black enough , but this man had at least deserved death by the laws of his country .
i told holmes how the matter stood , my heart bubbling over with thankfulness and joy .
" then the clothes have been the poor devil 's death , " said he .
" it is clear enough that the hound has been laid on from some article of sir henry 's--the boot which was abstracted in the hotel , in all probability--and so ran this man down .
there is one very singular thing , however : how came selden , in the darkness , to know that the hound was on his trail ? "
" he heard him . "
" to hear a hound upon the moor would not work a hard man like this convict into such a paroxysm of terror that he would risk recapture by screaming wildly for help .
by his cries he must have run a long way after he knew the animal was on his track .
how did he know ? "
" a greater mystery to me is why this hound , presuming that all our conjectures are correct -- "
" i presume nothing . "
" well , then , why this hound should be loose to-night .
i suppose that it does not always run loose upon the moor .
stapleton would not let it go unless he had reason to think that sir henry would be there . "
" my difficulty is the more formidable of the two , for i think that we shall very shortly get an explanation of yours , while mine may remain forever a mystery .
the question now is , what shall we do with this poor wretch 's body ?
we cannot leave it here to the foxes and the ravens . "
" i suggest that we put it in one of the huts until we can communicate with the police . "
" exactly .
i have no doubt that you and i could carry it so far .
halloa , watson , what 's this ?
it 's the man himself , by all that 's wonderful and audacious !
not a word to show your suspicions--not a word , or my plans crumble to the ground . "
a figure was approaching us over the moor , and i saw the dull red glow of a cigar .
the moon shone upon him , and i could distinguish the dapper shape and jaunty walk of the naturalist .
he stopped when he saw us , and then came on again .
" why , dr. watson , that 's not you , is it ?
you are the last man that i should have expected to see out on the moor at this time of night .
but , dear me , what 's this ?
somebody hurt ?
not--don 't tell me that it is our friend sir henry ! "
he hurried past me and stooped over the dead man .
i heard a sharp intake of his breath and the cigar fell from his fingers .
" who--who 's this ? " he stammered .
" it is selden , the man who escaped from princetown . "
stapleton turned a ghastly face upon us , but by a supreme effort he had overcome his amazement and his disappointment .
he looked sharply from holmes to me .
" dear me !
what a very shocking affair !
how did he die ? "
" he appears to have broken his neck by falling over these rocks .
my friend and i were strolling on the moor when we heard a cry . "
" i heard a cry also .
that was what brought me out .
i was uneasy about sir henry . "
" why about sir henry in particular ? " i could not help asking .
" because i had suggested that he should come over .
when he did not come i was surprised , and i naturally became alarmed for his safety when i heard cries upon the moor .
by the way " --his eyes darted again from my face to holmes 's-- " did you hear anything else besides a cry ? "
" no , " said holmes ; " did you ? "
" no . "
" what do you mean , then ? "
" oh , you know the stories that the peasants tell about a phantom hound , and so on .
it is said to be heard at night upon the moor .
i was wondering if there were any evidence of such a sound to-night . "
" we heard nothing of the kind , " said i .
" and what is your theory of this poor fellow 's death ? "
" i have no doubt that anxiety and exposure have driven him off his head .
he has rushed about the moor in a crazy state and eventually fallen over here and broken his neck . "
" that seems the most reasonable theory , " said stapleton , and he gave a sigh which i took to indicate his relief .
" what do you think about it , mr. sherlock holmes ? "
my friend bowed his compliments .
" you are quick at identification , " said he .
" we have been expecting you in these parts since dr. watson came down .
you are in time to see a tragedy . "
" yes , indeed .
i have no doubt that my friend 's explanation will cover the facts .
i will take an unpleasant remembrance back to london with me to-morrow . "
" oh , you return to-morrow ? "
" that is my intention . "
" i hope your visit has cast some light upon those occurrences which have puzzled us ? "
holmes shrugged his shoulders .
" one cannot always have the success for which one hopes .
an investigator needs facts , and not legends or rumours .
it has not been a satisfactory case . "
my friend spoke in his frankest and most unconcerned manner .
stapleton still looked hard at him .
then he turned to me .
" i would suggest carrying this poor fellow to my house , but it would give my sister such a fright that i do not feel justified in doing it .
i think that if we put something over his face he will be safe until morning . "
and so it was arranged .
resisting stapleton 's offer of hospitality , holmes and i set off to baskerville hall , leaving the naturalist to return alone .
looking back we saw the figure moving slowly away over the broad moor , and behind him that one black smudge on the silvered slope which showed where the man was lying who had come so horribly to his end . chapter 13 fixing the nets
" we 're at close grips at last , " said holmes as we walked together across the moor .
" what a nerve the fellow has !
how he pulled himself together in the face of what must have been a paralyzing shock when he found that the wrong man had fallen a victim to his plot .
i told you in london , watson , and i tell you now again , that we have never had a foeman more worthy of our steel . "
" i am sorry that he has seen you . "
" and so was i at first .
but there was no getting out of it . "
" what effect do you think it will have upon his plans now that he knows you are here ? "
" it may cause him to be more cautious , or it may drive him to desperate measures at once .
like most clever criminals , he may be too confident in his own cleverness and imagine that he has completely deceived us . "
" why should we not arrest him at once ? "
" my dear watson , you were born to be a man of action .
your instinct is always to do something energetic .
but supposing , for argument 's sake , that we had him arrested to-night , what on earth the better off should we be for that ?
we could prove nothing against him .
there 's the devilish cunning of it !
if he were acting through a human agent we could get some evidence , but if we were to drag this great dog to the light of day it would not help us in putting a rope round the neck of its master . "
" surely we have a case . "
" not a shadow of one--only surmise and conjecture .
we should be laughed out of court if we came with such a story and such evidence . "
" there is sir charles 's death . "
" found dead without a mark upon him .
you and i know that he died of sheer fright , and we know also what frightened him ; but how are we to get twelve stolid jurymen to know it ?
what signs are there of a hound ?
where are the marks of its fangs ?
of course we know that a hound does not bite a dead body and that sir charles was dead before ever the brute overtook him .
but we have to prove all this , and we are not in a position to do it . "
" well , then , to-night ? "
" we are not much better off to-night .
again , there was no direct connection between the hound and the man 's death .
we never saw the hound .
we heard it ; but we could not prove that it was running upon this man 's trail .
there is a complete absence of motive . no , my dear fellow ; we must reconcile ourselves to the fact that we have no case at present , and that it is worth our while to run any risk in order to establish one . "
" and how do you propose to do so ? "
" i have great hopes of what mrs. laura lyons may do for us when the position of affairs is made clear to her .
and i have my own plan as well .
sufficient for to-morrow is the evil thereof ; but i hope before the day is past to have the upper hand at last . "
i could draw nothing further from him , and he walked , lost in thought , as far as the baskerville gates .
" are you coming up ? "
" yes ; i see no reason for further concealment .
but one last word , watson .
say nothing of the hound to sir henry .
let him think that selden 's death was as stapleton would have us believe .
he will have a better nerve for the ordeal which he will have to undergo to-morrow , when he is engaged , if i remember your report aright , to dine with these people . "
" and so am i. "
" then you must excuse yourself and he must go alone .
that will be easily arranged .
and now , if we are too late for dinner , i think that we are both ready for our suppers . "
sir henry was more pleased than surprised to see sherlock holmes , for he had for some days been expecting that recent events would bring him down from london .
he did raise his eyebrows , however , when he found that my friend had neither any luggage nor any explanations for its absence .
between us we soon supplied his wants , and then over a belated supper we explained to the baronet as much of our experience as it seemed desirable that he should know .
but first i had the unpleasant duty of breaking the news to barrymore and his wife .
to him it may have been an unmitigated relief , but she wept bitterly in her apron .
to all the world he was the man of violence , half animal and half demon ; but to her he always remained the little wilful boy of her own girlhood , the child who had clung to her hand .
evil indeed is the man who has not one woman to mourn him .
" i 've been moping in the house all day since watson went off in the morning , " said the baronet .
" i guess i should have some credit , for i have kept my promise .
if i hadn 't sworn not to go about alone i might have had a more lively evening , for i had a message from stapleton asking me over there . "
" i have no doubt that you would have had a more lively evening , " said holmes drily .
" by the way , i don 't suppose you appreciate that we have been mourning over you as having broken your neck ? "
sir henry opened his eyes .
" how was that ? "
" this poor wretch was dressed in your clothes .
i fear your servant who gave them to him may get into trouble with the police . "
" that is unlikely .
there was no mark on any of them , as far as i know . "
" that 's lucky for him--in fact , it 's lucky for all of you , since you are all on the wrong side of the law in this matter .
i am not sure that as a conscientious detective my first duty is not to arrest the whole household .
watson 's reports are most incriminating documents . "
" but how about the case ? " asked the baronet . " have you made anything out of the tangle ?
i don 't know that watson and i are much the wiser since we came down . "
" i think that i shall be in a position to make the situation rather more clear to you before long .
it has been an exceedingly difficult and most complicated business .
there are several points upon which we still want light--but it is coming all the same . "
" we 've had one experience , as watson has no doubt told you .
we heard the hound on the moor , so i can swear that it is not all empty superstition .
i had something to do with dogs when i was out west , and i know one when i hear one .
if you can muzzle that one and put him on a chain i 'll be ready to swear you are the greatest detective of all time . "
" i think i will muzzle him and chain him all right if you will give me your help . "
" whatever you tell me to do i will do . "
" very good ; and i will ask you also to do it blindly , without always asking the reason . "
" just as you like . "
" if you will do this i think the chances are that our little problem will soon be solved .
i have no doubt---- "
he stopped suddenly and stared fixedly up over my head into the air .
the lamp beat upon his face , and so intent was it and so still that it might have been that of a clear-cut classical statue , a personification of alertness and expectation .
" what is it ? " we both cried .
i could see as he looked down that he was repressing some internal emotion .
his features were still composed , but his eyes shone with amused exultation .
" excuse the admiration of a connoisseur , " said he as he waved his hand towards the line of portraits which covered the opposite wall .
" watson won 't allow that i know anything of art , but that is mere jealousy , because our views upon the subject differ .
now , these are a really very fine series of portraits . "
" well , i 'm glad to hear you say so , " said sir henry , glancing with some surprise at my friend .
" i don 't pretend to know much about these things , and i 'd be a better judge of a horse or a steer than of a picture .
i didn 't know that you found time for such things . "
" i know what is good when i see it , and i see it now .
that 's a kneller , i 'll swear , that lady in the blue silk over yonder , and the stout gentleman with the wig ought to be a reynolds .
they are all family portraits , i presume ? "
" every one . "
" do you know the names ? "
" barrymore has been coaching me in them , and i think i can say my lessons fairly well . "
" who is the gentleman with the telescope ? "
" that is rear-admiral baskerville , who served under rodney in the west indies .
the man with the blue coat and the roll of paper is sir william baskerville , who was chairman of committees of the house of commons under pitt . "
" and this cavalier opposite to me--the one with the black velvet and the lace ? "
" ah , you have a right to know about him .
that is the cause of all the mischief , the wicked hugo , who started the hound of the baskervilles .
we 're not likely to forget him . "
i gazed with interest and some surprise upon the portrait .
" dear me ! " said holmes , " he seems a quiet , meek-mannered man enough , but i dare say that there was a lurking devil in his eyes .
i had pictured him as a more robust and ruffianly person . "
" there 's no doubt about the authenticity , for the name and the date , 1647 , are on the back of the canvas . "
holmes said little more , but the picture of the old roysterer seemed to have a fascination for him , and his eyes were continually fixed upon it during supper .
it was not until later , when sir henry had gone to his room , that i was able to follow the trend of his thoughts .
he led me back into the banqueting-hall , his bedroom candle in his hand , and he held it up against the time-stained portrait on the wall .
" do you see anything there ? "
i looked at the broad plumed hat , the curling love-locks , the white lace collar , and the straight , severe face which was framed between them .
it was not a brutal countenance , but it was prim , hard , and stern , with a firm-set , thin-lipped mouth , and a coldly intolerant eye .
" is it like anyone you know ? "
" there is something of sir henry about the jaw . "
" just a suggestion , perhaps .
but wait an instant ! "
he stood upon a chair , and , holding up the light in his left hand , he curved his right arm over the broad hat and round the long ringlets .
" good heavens ! " i cried , in amazement .
the face of stapleton had sprung out of the canvas .
" ha , you see it now .
my eyes have been trained to examine faces and not their trimmings .
it is the first quality of a criminal investigator that he should see through a disguise . "
" but this is marvellous .
it might be his portrait . "
" yes , it is an interesting instance of a throwback , which appears to be both physical and spiritual .
a study of family portraits is enough to convert a man to the doctrine of reincarnation .
the fellow is a baskerville--that is evident . "
" with designs upon the succession . "
" exactly .
this chance of the picture has supplied us with one of our most obvious missing links .
we have him , watson , we have him , and i dare swear that before to-morrow night he will be fluttering in our net as helpless as one of his own butterflies .
a pin , a cork , and a card , and we add him to the baker street collection ! "
he burst into one of his rare fits of laughter as he turned away from the picture .
i have not heard him laugh often , and it has always boded ill to somebody .
i was up betimes in the morning , but holmes was afoot earlier still , for i saw him as i dressed , coming up the drive .
" yes , we should have a full day to-day , " he remarked , and he rubbed his hands with the joy of action .
" the nets are all in place , and the drag is about to begin .
we 'll know before the day is out whether we have caught our big , lean-jawed pike , or whether he has got through the meshes . "
" have you been on the moor already ? "
" i have sent a report from grimpen to princetown as to the death of selden .
i think i can promise that none of you will be troubled in the matter .
and i have also communicated with my faithful cartwright , who would certainly have pined away at the door of my hut , as a dog does at his master 's grave , if i had not set his mind at rest about my safety . "
" what is the next move ? "
" to see sir henry .
ah , here he is ! "
" good morning , holmes , " said the baronet .
" you look like a general who is planning a battle with his chief of the staff . "
" that is the exact situation .
watson was asking for orders . "
" and so do i. "
" very good .
you are engaged , as i understand , to dine with our friends the stapletons to-night . "
" i hope that you will come also .
they are very hospitable people , and i am sure that they would be very glad to see you . "
" i fear that watson and i must go to london . "
" to london ? "
" yes , i think that we should be more useful there at the present juncture . "
the baronet 's face perceptibly lengthened .
" i hoped that you were going to see me through this business .
the hall and the moor are not very pleasant places when one is alone . "
" my dear fellow , you must trust me implicitly and do exactly what i tell you .
you can tell your friends that we should have been happy to have come with you , but that urgent business required us to be in town . we hope very soon to return to devonshire .
will you remember to give them that message ? "
" if you insist upon it . "
" there is no alternative , i assure you . "
i saw by the baronet 's clouded brow that he was deeply hurt by what he regarded as our desertion .
" when do you desire to go ? " he asked coldly .
" immediately after breakfast .
we will drive in to coombe tracey , but watson will leave his things as a pledge that he will come back to you .
watson , you will send a note to stapleton to tell him that you regret that you cannot come . "
" i have a good mind to go to london with you , " said the baronet .
" why should i stay here alone ? "
" because it is your post of duty .
because you gave me your word that you would do as you were told , and i tell you to stay . "
" all right , then , i 'll stay . "
" one more direction ! i wish you to drive to merripit house .
send back your trap , however , and let them know that you intend to walk home . "
" to walk across the moor ? "
" yes . "
" but that is the very thing which you have so often cautioned me not to do . "
" this time you may do it with safety .
if i had not every confidence in your nerve and courage i would not suggest it , but it is essential that you should do it . "
" then i will do it . "
" and as you value your life do not go across the moor in any direction save along the straight path which leads from merripit house to the grimpen road , and is your natural way home . "
" i will do just what you say . "
" very good .
i should be glad to get away as soon after breakfast as possible , so as to reach london in the afternoon . "
i was much astounded by this programme , though i remembered that holmes had said to stapleton on the night before that his visit would terminate next day .
it had not crossed my mind , however , that he would wish me to go with him , nor could i understand how we could both be absent at a moment which he himself declared to be critical .
there was nothing for it , however , but implicit obedience ; so we bade good-bye to our rueful friend , and a couple of hours afterwards we were at the station of coombe tracey and had dispatched the trap upon its return journey .
a small boy was waiting upon the platform .
" any orders , sir ? "
" you will take this train to town , cartwright .
the moment you arrive you will send a wire to sir henry baskerville , in my name , to say that if he finds the pocket-book which i have dropped he is to send it by registered post to baker street . "
" yes , sir . "
" and ask at the station office if there is a message for me . "
the boy returned with a telegram , which holmes handed to me .
it ran : " wire received .
coming down with unsigned warrant . arrive five-forty.--lestrade. "
" that is in answer to mine of this morning .
he is the best of the professionals , i think , and we may need his assistance .
now , watson , i think that we cannot employ our time better than by calling upon your acquaintance , mrs. laura lyons . "
his plan of campaign was beginning to be evident .
he would use the baronet in order to convince the stapletons that we were really gone , while we should actually return at the instant when we were likely to be needed .
that telegram from london , if mentioned by sir henry to the stapletons , must remove the last suspicions from their minds .
already i seemed to see our nets drawing closer around that lean-jawed pike .
mrs. laura lyons was in her office , and sherlock holmes opened his interview with a frankness and directness which considerably amazed her .
" i am investigating the circumstances which attended the death of the late sir charles baskerville , " said he .
" my friend here , dr. watson , has informed me of what you have communicated , and also of what you have withheld in connection with that matter . "
" what have i withheld ? " she asked defiantly .
" you have confessed that you asked sir charles to be at the gate at ten o 'clock .
we know that that was the place and hour of his death .
you have withheld what the connection is between these events . "
" there is no connection . "
" in that case the coincidence must indeed be an extraordinary one .
but i think that we shall succeed in establishing a connection after all .
i wish to be perfectly frank with you , mrs. lyons .
we regard this case as one of murder , and the evidence may implicate not only your friend mr. stapleton , but his wife as well . "
the lady sprang from her chair .
" his wife ! " she said again .
" his wife !
he is not a married man . "
sherlock holmes shrugged his shoulders .
" prove it to me ! prove it to me !
and if you can do so -- ! " the fierce flash of her eyes said more than any words .
" i have come prepared to do so , " said holmes , drawing several papers from his pocket .
" here is a photograph of the couple taken in york four years ago .
it is indorsed ' mr. and mrs. vandeleur , ' but you will have no difficulty in recognizing him , and her also , if you know her by sight .
here are three written descriptions by trustworthy witnesses of mr. and mrs. vandeleur , who at that time kept st. oliver 's private school .
read them and see if you can doubt the identity of these people . "
she glanced at them , and then looked up at us with the set , rigid face of a desperate woman .
" mr. holmes , " she said , " this man had offered me marriage on condition that i could get a divorce from my husband .
he has lied to me , the villain , in every conceivable way .
not one word of truth has he ever told me .
and why--why ?
i imagined that all was for my own sake .
but now i see that i was never anything but a tool in his hands .
why should i preserve faith with him who never kept any with me ?
why should i try to shield him from the consequences of his own wicked acts ?
ask me what you like , and there is nothing which i shall hold back .
one thing i swear to you , and that is that when i wrote the letter i never dreamed of any harm to the old gentleman , who had been my kindest friend . "
" i entirely believe you , madam , " said sherlock holmes .
" the recital of these events must be very painful to you , and perhaps it will make it easier if i tell you what occurred , and you can check me if i make any material mistake .
the sending of this letter was suggested to you by stapleton ? "
" he dictated it . "
" i presume that the reason he gave was that you would receive help from sir charles for the legal expenses connected with your divorce ? "
" exactly . "
" and then after you had sent the letter he dissuaded you from keeping the appointment ? "
" he told me that it would hurt his self-respect that any other man should find the money for such an object , and that though he was a poor man himself he would devote his last penny to removing the obstacles which divided us . "
" he appears to be a very consistent character .
and then you heard nothing until you read the reports of the death in the paper ? "
" no . "
" and he made you swear to say nothing about your appointment with sir charles ? "
" he did .
he said that the death was a very mysterious one , and that i should certainly be suspected if the facts came out .
he frightened me into remaining silent . "
" quite so .
but you had your suspicions ? "
she hesitated and looked down .
" i knew him , " she said .
" but if he had kept faith with me i should always have done so with him . "
" i think that on the whole you have had a fortunate escape , " said sherlock holmes .
" you have had him in your power and he knew it , and yet you are alive .
you have been walking for some months very near to the edge of a precipice .
we must wish you good-morning now , mrs. lyons , and it is probable that you will very shortly hear from us again . "
" our case becomes rounded off , and difficulty after difficulty thins away in front of us , " said holmes as we stood waiting for the arrival of the express from town .
" i shall soon be in the position of being able to put into a single connected narrative one of the most singular and sensational crimes of modern times .
students of criminology will remember the analogous incidents in godno , in little russia , in the year ' 66 , and of course there are the anderson murders in north carolina , but this case possesses some features which are entirely its own .
even now we have no clear case against this very wily man .
but i shall be very much surprised if it is not clear enough before we go to bed this night . "
the london express came roaring into the station , and a small , wiry bulldog of a man had sprung from a first-class carriage .
we all three shook hands , and i saw at once from the reverential way in which lestrade gazed at my companion that he had learned a good deal since the days when they had first worked together .
i could well remember the scorn which the theories of the reasoner used then to excite in the practical man .
" anything good ? " he asked .
" the biggest thing for years , " said holmes .
" we have two hours before we need think of starting .
i think we might employ it in getting some dinner and then , lestrade , we will take the london fog out of your throat by giving you a breath of the pure night air of dartmoor .
never been there ?
ah , well , i don 't suppose you will forget your first visit . "
chapter 14 the hound of the baskervilles
one of sherlock holmes 's defects--if , indeed , one may call it a defect--was that he was exceedingly loath to communicate his full plans to any other person until the instant of their fulfilment .
partly it came no doubt from his own masterful nature , which loved to dominate and surprise those who were around him .
partly also from his professional caution , which urged him never to take any chances .
the result , however , was very trying for those who were acting as his agents and assistants .
i had often suffered under it , but never more so than during that long drive in the darkness .
the great ordeal was in front of us ; at last we were about to make our final effort , and yet holmes had said nothing , and i could only surmise what his course of action would be .
my nerves thrilled with anticipation when at last the cold wind upon our faces and the dark , void spaces on either side of the narrow road told me that we were back upon the moor once again .
every stride of the horses and every turn of the wheels was taking us nearer to our supreme adventure .
our conversation was hampered by the presence of the driver of the hired wagonette , so that we were forced to talk of trivial matters when our nerves were tense with emotion and anticipation .
it was a relief to me , after that unnatural restraint , when we at last passed frankland 's house and knew that we were drawing near to the hall and to the scene of action .
we did not drive up to the door but got down near the gate of the avenue .
the wagonette was paid off and ordered to return to coombe tracey forthwith , while we started to walk to merripit house .
" are you armed , lestrade ? "
the little detective smiled .
" as long as i have my trousers i have a hip-pocket , and as long as i have my hip-pocket i have something in it . "
" good !
my friend and i are also ready for emergencies . "
" you 're mighty close about this affair , mr. holmes .
what 's the game now ? "
" a waiting game . "
" my word , it does not seem a very cheerful place , " said the detective with a shiver , glancing round him at the gloomy slopes of the hill and at the huge lake of fog which lay over the grimpen mire .
" i see the lights of a house ahead of us . "
" that is merripit house and the end of our journey .
i must request you to walk on tiptoe and not to talk above a whisper . "
we moved cautiously along the track as if we were bound for the house , but holmes halted us when we were about two hundred yards from it .
" this will do , " said he .
" these rocks upon the right make an admirable screen . "
" we are to wait here ? "
" yes , we shall make our little ambush here .
get into this hollow , lestrade .
you have been inside the house , have you not , watson ?
can you tell the position of the rooms ?
what are those latticed windows at this end ? "
" i think they are the kitchen windows . "
" and the one beyond , which shines so brightly ? "
" that is certainly the dining-room . "
" the blinds are up .
you know the lie of the land best .
creep forward quietly and see what they are doing--but for heaven 's sake don 't let them know that they are watched ! "
i tiptoed down the path and stooped behind the low wall which surrounded the stunted orchard .
creeping in its shadow i reached a point whence i could look straight through the uncurtained window .
there were only two men in the room , sir henry and stapleton .
they sat with their profiles towards me on either side of the round table .
both of them were smoking cigars , and coffee and wine were in front of them .
stapleton was talking with animation , but the baronet looked pale and distrait .
perhaps the thought of that lonely walk across the ill-omened moor was weighing heavily upon his mind .
as i watched them stapleton rose and left the room , while sir henry filled his glass again and leaned back in his chair , puffing at his cigar .
i heard the creak of a door and the crisp sound of boots upon gravel .
the steps passed along the path on the other side of the wall under which i crouched .
looking over , i saw the naturalist pause at the door of an out-house in the corner of the orchard .
a key turned in a lock , and as he passed in there was a curious scuffling noise from within .
he was only a minute or so inside , and then i heard the key turn once more and he passed me and re-entered the house .
i saw him rejoin his guest , and i crept quietly back to where my companions were waiting to tell them what i had seen .
" you say , watson , that the lady is not there ? " holmes asked , when i had finished my report .
" no . "
" where can she be , then , since there is no light in any other room except the kitchen ? "
" i cannot think where she is . "
i have said that over the great grimpen mire there hung a dense , white fog .
it was drifting slowly in our direction , and banked itself up like a wall on that side of us , low , but thick and well defined .
the moon shone on it , and it looked like a great shimmering ice-field , with the heads of the distant tors as rocks borne upon its surface .
holmes 's face was turned towards it , and he muttered impatiently as he watched its sluggish drift .
" it 's moving towards us , watson . "
" is that serious ? "
" very serious , indeed--the one thing upon earth which could have disarranged my plans .
he can 't be very long , now .
it is already ten o 'clock .
our success and even his life may depend upon his coming out before the fog is over the path . "
the night was clear and fine above us .
the stars shone cold and bright , while a half-moon bathed the whole scene in a soft , uncertain light .
before us lay the dark bulk of the house , its serrated roof and bristling chimneys hard outlined against the silver-spangled sky .
broad bars of golden light from the lower windows stretched across the orchard and the moor .
one of them was suddenly shut off .
the servants had left the kitchen .
there only remained the lamp in the dining-room where the two men , the murderous host and the unconscious guest , still chatted over their cigars .
every minute that white woolly plain which covered one half of the moor was drifting closer and closer to the house .
already the first thin wisps of it were curling across the golden square of the lighted window .
the farther wall of the orchard was already invisible , and the trees were standing out of a swirl of white vapour .
as we watched it the fog-wreaths came crawling round both corners of the house and rolled slowly into one dense bank , on which the upper floor and the roof floated like a strange ship upon a shadowy sea .
holmes struck his hand passionately upon the rock in front of us and stamped his feet in his impatience .
" if he isn 't out in a quarter of an hour the path will be covered . in half an hour we won 't be able to see our hands in front of us . "
" shall we move farther back upon higher ground ? "
" yes , i think it would be as well . "
so as the fog-bank flowed onward we fell back before it until we were half a mile from the house , and still that dense white sea , with the moon silvering its upper edge , swept slowly and inexorably on .
" we are going too far , " said holmes .
" we dare not take the chance of his being overtaken before he can reach us . at all costs we must hold our ground where we are . "
he dropped on his knees and clapped his ear to the ground . " thank god , i think that i hear him coming . "
a sound of quick steps broke the silence of the moor .
crouching among the stones we stared intently at the silver-tipped bank in front of us .
the steps grew louder , and through the fog , as through a curtain , there stepped the man whom we were awaiting .
he looked round him in surprise as he emerged into the clear , starlit night .
then he came swiftly along the path , passed close to where we lay , and went on up the long slope behind us .
as he walked he glanced continually over either shoulder , like a man who is ill at ease .
" hist ! " cried holmes , and i heard the sharp click of a cocking pistol .
" look out !
it 's coming ! "
there was a thin , crisp , continuous patter from somewhere in the heart of that crawling bank .
the cloud was within fifty yards of where we lay , and we glared at it , all three , uncertain what horror was about to break from the heart of it . i was at holmes 's elbow , and i glanced for an instant at his face .
it was pale and exultant , his eyes shining brightly in the moonlight . but suddenly they started forward in a rigid , fixed stare , and his lips parted in amazement .
at the same instant lestrade gave a yell of terror and threw himself face downward upon the ground .
i sprang to my feet , my inert hand grasping my pistol , my mind paralyzed by the dreadful shape which had sprung out upon us from the shadows of the fog .
a hound it was , an enormous coal-black hound , but not such a hound as mortal eyes have ever seen .
fire burst from its open mouth , its eyes glowed with a smouldering glare , its muzzle and hackles and dewlap were outlined in flickering flame .
never in the delirious dream of a disordered brain could anything more savage , more appalling , more hellish be conceived than that dark form and savage face which broke upon us out of the wall of fog .
with long bounds the huge black creature was leaping down the track , following hard upon the footsteps of our friend .
so paralyzed were we by the apparition that we allowed him to pass before we had recovered our nerve .
then holmes and i both fired together , and the creature gave a hideous howl , which showed that one at least had hit him .
he did not pause , however , but bounded onward .
far away on the path we saw sir henry looking back , his face white in the moonlight , his hands raised in horror , glaring helplessly at the frightful thing which was hunting him down .
but that cry of pain from the hound had blown all our fears to the winds .
if he was vulnerable he was mortal , and if we could wound him we could kill him .
never have i seen a man run as holmes ran that night .
i am reckoned fleet of foot , but he outpaced me as much as i outpaced the little professional .
in front of us as we flew up the track we heard scream after scream from sir henry and the deep roar of the hound .
i was in time to see the beast spring upon its victim , hurl him to the ground , and worry at his throat .
but the next instant holmes had emptied five barrels of his revolver into the creature 's flank .
with a last howl of agony and a vicious snap in the air , it rolled upon its back , four feet pawing furiously , and then fell limp upon its side .
i stooped , panting , and pressed my pistol to the dreadful , shimmering head , but it was useless to press the trigger . the giant hound was dead .
sir henry lay insensible where he had fallen .
we tore away his collar , and holmes breathed a prayer of gratitude when we saw that there was no sign of a wound and that the rescue had been in time .
already our friend 's eyelids shivered and he made a feeble effort to move .
lestrade thrust his brandy-flask between the baronet 's teeth , and two frightened eyes were looking up at us .
" my god ! " he whispered .
" what was it ?
what , in heaven 's name , was it ? "
" it 's dead , whatever it is , " said holmes .
" we 've laid the family ghost once and forever . "
in mere size and strength it was a terrible creature which was lying stretched before us . it was not a pure bloodhound and it was not a pure mastiff ; but it appeared to be a combination of the two--gaunt , savage , and as large as a small lioness .
even now , in the stillness of death , the huge jaws seemed to be dripping with a bluish flame and the small , deep-set , cruel eyes were ringed with fire .
i placed my hand upon the glowing muzzle , and as i held them up my own fingers smouldered and gleamed in the darkness .
" phosphorus , " i said .
" a cunning preparation of it , " said holmes , sniffing at the dead animal .
" there is no smell which might have interfered with his power of scent .
we owe you a deep apology , sir henry , for having exposed you to this fright .
i was prepared for a hound , but not for such a creature as this .
and the fog gave us little time to receive him . "
" you have saved my life . "
" having first endangered it .
are you strong enough to stand ? "
" give me another mouthful of that brandy and i shall be ready for anything .
so !
now , if you will help me up .
what do you propose to do ? "
" to leave you here .
you are not fit for further adventures to-night .
if you will wait , one or other of us will go back with you to the hall . "
he tried to stagger to his feet ; but he was still ghastly pale and trembling in every limb .
we helped him to a rock , where he sat shivering with his face buried in his hands .
" we must leave you now , " said holmes .
" the rest of our work must be done , and every moment is of importance .
we have our case , and now we only want our man .
" it 's a thousand to one against our finding him at the house , " he continued as we retraced our steps swiftly down the path .
" those shots must have told him that the game was up . "
" we were some distance off , and this fog may have deadened them . "
" he followed the hound to call him off--of that you may be certain .
no , no , he 's gone by this time !
but we 'll search the house and make sure . "
the front door was open , so we rushed in and hurried from room to room to the amazement of a doddering old manservant , who met us in the passage .
there was no light save in the dining-room , but holmes caught up the lamp and left no corner of the house unexplored .
no sign could we see of the man whom we were chasing .
on the upper floor , however , one of the bedroom doors was locked .
" there 's someone in here , " cried lestrade .
" i can hear a movement .
open this door ! "
a faint moaning and rustling came from within .
holmes struck the door just over the lock with the flat of his foot and it flew open .
pistol in hand , we all three rushed into the room .
but there was no sign within it of that desperate and defiant villain whom we expected to see . instead we were faced by an object so strange and so unexpected that we stood for a moment staring at it in amazement .
the room had been fashioned into a small museum , and the walls were lined by a number of glass-topped cases full of that collection of butterflies and moths the formation of which had been the relaxation of this complex and dangerous man .
in the centre of this room there was an upright beam , which had been placed at some period as a support for the old worm-eaten baulk of timber which spanned the roof .
to this post a figure was tied , so swathed and muffled in the sheets which had been used to secure it that one could not for the moment tell whether it was that of a man or a woman .
one towel passed round the throat and was secured at the back of the pillar .
another covered the lower part of the face , and over it two dark eyes--eyes full of grief and shame and a dreadful questioning--stared back at us .
in a minute we had torn off the gag , unswathed the bonds , and mrs. stapleton sank upon the floor in front of us .
as her beautiful head fell upon her chest i saw the clear red weal of a whiplash across her neck .
" the brute ! " cried holmes .
" here , lestrade , your brandy-bottle !
put her in the chair !
she has fainted from ill-usage and exhaustion . "
she opened her eyes again .
" is he safe ? " she asked .
" has he escaped ? "
" he cannot escape us , madam . "
" no , no , i did not mean my husband .
sir henry ?
is he safe ? "
" yes . "
" and the hound ? "
" it is dead . "
she gave a long sigh of satisfaction .
" thank god !
thank god ! oh , this villain !
see how he has treated me ! " she shot her arms out from her sleeves , and we saw with horror that they were all mottled with bruises .
" but this is nothing--nothing !
it is my mind and soul that he has tortured and defiled .
i could endure it all , ill-usage , solitude , a life of deception , everything , as long as i could still cling to the hope that i had his love , but now i know that in this also i have been his dupe and his tool . "
she broke into passionate sobbing as she spoke .
" you bear him no good will , madam , " said holmes .
" tell us then where we shall find him .
if you have ever aided him in evil , help us now and so atone . "
" there is but one place where he can have fled , " she answered .
" there is an old tin mine on an island in the heart of the mire .
it was there that he kept his hound and there also he had made preparations so that he might have a refuge .
that is where he would fly . "
the fog-bank lay like white wool against the window .
holmes held the lamp towards it .
" see , " said he .
" no one could find his way into the grimpen mire to-night . "
she laughed and clapped her hands .
her eyes and teeth gleamed with fierce merriment .
" he may find his way in , but never out , " she cried .
" how can he see the guiding wands to-night ?
we planted them together , he and i , to mark the pathway through the mire .
oh , if i could only have plucked them out to-day .
then indeed you would have had him at your mercy ! "
it was evident to us that all pursuit was in vain until the fog had lifted .
meanwhile we left lestrade in possession of the house while holmes and i went back with the baronet to baskerville hall .
the story of the stapletons could no longer be withheld from him , but he took the blow bravely when he learned the truth about the woman whom he had loved .
but the shock of the night 's adventures had shattered his nerves , and before morning he lay delirious in a high fever , under the care of dr. mortimer .
the two of them were destined to travel together round the world before sir henry had become once more the hale , hearty man that he had been before he became master of that ill-omened estate .
and now i come rapidly to the conclusion of this singular narrative , in which i have tried to make the reader share those dark fears and vague surmises which clouded our lives so long and ended in so tragic a manner .
on the morning after the death of the hound the fog had lifted and we were guided by mrs. stapleton to the point where they had found a pathway through the bog .
it helped us to realize the horror of this woman 's life when we saw the eagerness and joy with which she laid us on her husband 's track .
we left her standing upon the thin peninsula of firm , peaty soil which tapered out into the widespread bog .
from the end of it a small wand planted here and there showed where the path zigzagged from tuft to tuft of rushes among those green-scummed pits and foul quagmires which barred the way to the stranger .
rank reeds and lush , slimy water-plants sent an odour of decay and a heavy miasmatic vapour onto our faces , while a false step plunged us more than once thigh-deep into the dark , quivering mire , which shook for yards in soft undulations around our feet .
its tenacious grip plucked at our heels as we walked , and when we sank into it it was as if some malignant hand was tugging us down into those obscene depths , so grim and purposeful was the clutch in which it held us .
once only we saw a trace that someone had passed that perilous way before us .
from amid a tuft of cotton grass which bore it up out of the slime some dark thing was projecting .
holmes sank to his waist as he stepped from the path to seize it , and had we not been there to drag him out he could never have set his foot upon firm land again .
he held an old black boot in the air . " meyers , toronto , " was printed on the leather inside .
" it is worth a mud bath , " said he .
" it is our friend sir henry 's missing boot . "
" thrown there by stapleton in his flight . "
" exactly .
he retained it in his hand after using it to set the hound upon the track .
he fled when he knew the game was up , still clutching it .
and he hurled it away at this point of his flight .
we know at least that he came so far in safety . "
but more than that we were never destined to know , though there was much which we might surmise .
there was no chance of finding footsteps in the mire , for the rising mud oozed swiftly in upon them , but as we at last reached firmer ground beyond the morass we all looked eagerly for them . but no slightest sign of them ever met our eyes .
if the earth told a true story , then stapleton never reached that island of refuge towards which he struggled through the fog upon that last night .
somewhere in the heart of the great grimpen mire , down in the foul slime of the huge morass which had sucked him in , this cold and cruel-hearted man is forever buried .
many traces we found of him in the bog-girt island where he had hid his savage ally .
a huge driving-wheel and a shaft half-filled with rubbish showed the position of an abandoned mine .
beside it were the crumbling remains of the cottages of the miners , driven away no doubt by the foul reek of the surrounding swamp .
in one of these a staple and chain with a quantity of gnawed bones showed where the animal had been confined .
a skeleton with a tangle of brown hair adhering to it lay among the debris .
" a dog ! " said holmes .
" by jove , a curly-haired spaniel .
poor mortimer will never see his pet again . well , i do not know that this place contains any secret which we have not already fathomed .
he could hide his hound , but he could not hush its voice , and hence came those cries which even in daylight were not pleasant to hear .
on an emergency he could keep the hound in the out-house at merripit , but it was always a risk , and it was only on the supreme day , which he regarded as the end of all his efforts , that he dared do it .
this paste in the tin is no doubt the luminous mixture with which the creature was daubed .
it was suggested , of course , by the story of the family hell-hound , and by the desire to frighten old sir charles to death .
no wonder the poor devil of a convict ran and screamed , even as our friend did , and as we ourselves might have done , when he saw such a creature bounding through the darkness of the moor upon his track .
it was a cunning device , for , apart from the chance of driving your victim to his death , what peasant would venture to inquire too closely into such a creature should he get sight of it , as many have done , upon the moor ?
i said it in london , watson , and i say it again now , that never yet have we helped to hunt down a more dangerous man than he who is lying yonder " --he swept his long arm towards the huge mottled expanse of green-splotched bog which stretched away until it merged into the russet slopes of the moor .
chapter 15 a retrospection
it was the end of november and holmes and i sat , upon a raw and foggy night , on either side of a blazing fire in our sitting-room in baker street .
since the tragic upshot of our visit to devonshire he had been engaged in two affairs of the utmost importance , in the first of which he had exposed the atrocious conduct of colonel upwood in connection with the famous card scandal of the nonpareil club , while in the second he had defended the unfortunate mme. montpensier from the charge of murder which hung over her in connection with the death of her step-daughter , mlle. carere , the young lady who , as it will be remembered , was found six months later alive and married in new york .
my friend was in excellent spirits over the success which had attended a succession of difficult and important cases , so that i was able to induce him to discuss the details of the baskerville mystery .
i had waited patiently for the opportunity , for i was aware that he would never permit cases to overlap , and that his clear and logical mind would not be drawn from its present work to dwell upon memories of the past .
sir henry and dr. mortimer were , however , in london , on their way to that long voyage which had been recommended for the restoration of his shattered nerves . they had called upon us that very afternoon , so that it was natural that the subject should come up for discussion .
" the whole course of events , " said holmes , " from the point of view of the man who called himself stapleton was simple and direct , although to us , who had no means in the beginning of knowing the motives of his actions and could only learn part of the facts , it all appeared exceedingly complex .
i have had the advantage of two conversations with mrs. stapleton , and the case has now been so entirely cleared up that i am not aware that there is anything which has remained a secret to us .
you will find a few notes upon the matter under the heading b in my indexed list of cases . "
" perhaps you would kindly give me a sketch of the course of events from memory . "
" certainly , though i cannot guarantee that i carry all the facts in my mind .
intense mental concentration has a curious way of blotting out what has passed .
the barrister who has his case at his fingers ' ends , and is able to argue with an expert upon his own subject finds that a week or two of the courts will drive it all out of his head once more .
so each of my cases displaces the last , and mlle. carere has blurred my recollection of baskerville hall .
to-morrow some other little problem may be submitted to my notice which will in turn dispossess the fair french lady and the infamous upwood .
so far as the case of the hound goes , however , i will give you the course of events as nearly as i can , and you will suggest anything which i may have forgotten .
" my inquiries show beyond all question that the family portrait did not lie , and that this fellow was indeed a baskerville .
he was a son of that rodger baskerville , the younger brother of sir charles , who fled with a sinister reputation to south america , where he was said to have died unmarried .
he did , as a matter of fact , marry , and had one child , this fellow , whose real name is the same as his father 's .
he married beryl garcia , one of the beauties of costa rica , and , having purloined a considerable sum of public money , he changed his name to vandeleur and fled to england , where he established a school in the east of yorkshire .
his reason for attempting this special line of business was that he had struck up an acquaintance with a consumptive tutor upon the voyage home , and that he had used this man 's ability to make the undertaking a success .
fraser , the tutor , died however , and the school which had begun well sank from disrepute into infamy .
the vandeleurs found it convenient to change their name to stapleton , and he brought the remains of his fortune , his schemes for the future , and his taste for entomology to the south of england .
i learned at the british museum that he was a recognized authority upon the subject , and that the name of vandeleur has been permanently attached to a certain moth which he had , in his yorkshire days , been the first to describe .
" we now come to that portion of his life which has proved to be of such intense interest to us .
the fellow had evidently made inquiry and found that only two lives intervened between him and a valuable estate .
when he went to devonshire his plans were , i believe , exceedingly hazy , but that he meant mischief from the first is evident from the way in which he took his wife with him in the character of his sister .
the idea of using her as a decoy was clearly already in his mind , though he may not have been certain how the details of his plot were to be arranged .
he meant in the end to have the estate , and he was ready to use any tool or run any risk for that end .
his first act was to establish himself as near to his ancestral home as he could , and his second was to cultivate a friendship with sir charles baskerville and with the neighbours .
" the baronet himself told him about the family hound , and so prepared the way for his own death .
stapleton , as i will continue to call him , knew that the old man 's heart was weak and that a shock would kill him .
so much he had learned from dr. mortimer .
he had heard also that sir charles was superstitious and had taken this grim legend very seriously .
his ingenious mind instantly suggested a way by which the baronet could be done to death , and yet it would be hardly possible to bring home the guilt to the real murderer .
" having conceived the idea he proceeded to carry it out with considerable finesse .
an ordinary schemer would have been content to work with a savage hound .
the use of artificial means to make the creature diabolical was a flash of genius upon his part .
the dog he bought in london from ross and mangles , the dealers in fulham road . it was the strongest and most savage in their possession .
he brought it down by the north devon line and walked a great distance over the moor so as to get it home without exciting any remarks .
he had already on his insect hunts learned to penetrate the grimpen mire , and so had found a safe hiding-place for the creature .
here he kennelled it and waited his chance .
" but it was some time coming .
the old gentleman could not be decoyed outside of his grounds at night .
several times stapleton lurked about with his hound , but without avail .
it was during these fruitless quests that he , or rather his ally , was seen by peasants , and that the legend of the demon dog received a new confirmation .
he had hoped that his wife might lure sir charles to his ruin , but here she proved unexpectedly independent .
she would not endeavour to entangle the old gentleman in a sentimental attachment which might deliver him over to his enemy .
threats and even , i am sorry to say , blows refused to move her .
she would have nothing to do with it , and for a time stapleton was at a deadlock .
" he found a way out of his difficulties through the chance that sir charles , who had conceived a friendship for him , made him the minister of his charity in the case of this unfortunate woman , mrs. laura lyons .
by representing himself as a single man he acquired complete influence over her , and he gave her to understand that in the event of her obtaining a divorce from her husband he would marry her .
his plans were suddenly brought to a head by his knowledge that sir charles was about to leave the hall on the advice of dr. mortimer , with whose opinion he himself pretended to coincide .
he must act at once , or his victim might get beyond his power .
he therefore put pressure upon mrs. lyons to write this letter , imploring the old man to give her an interview on the evening before his departure for london .
he then , by a specious argument , prevented her from going , and so had the chance for which he had waited .
" driving back in the evening from coombe tracey he was in time to get his hound , to treat it with his infernal paint , and to bring the beast round to the gate at which he had reason to expect that he would find the old gentleman waiting .
the dog , incited by its master , sprang over the wicket-gate and pursued the unfortunate baronet , who fled screaming down the yew alley .
in that gloomy tunnel it must indeed have been a dreadful sight to see that huge black creature , with its flaming jaws and blazing eyes , bounding after its victim .
he fell dead at the end of the alley from heart disease and terror .
the hound had kept upon the grassy border while the baronet had run down the path , so that no track but the man 's was visible .
on seeing him lying still the creature had probably approached to sniff at him , but finding him dead had turned away again . it was then that it left the print which was actually observed by dr. mortimer .
the hound was called off and hurried away to its lair in the grimpen mire , and a mystery was left which puzzled the authorities , alarmed the country-side , and finally brought the case within the scope of our observation .
" so much for the death of sir charles baskerville .
you perceive the devilish cunning of it , for really it would be almost impossible to make a case against the real murderer .
his only accomplice was one who could never give him away , and the grotesque , inconceivable nature of the device only served to make it more effective .
both of the women concerned in the case , mrs. stapleton and mrs. laura lyons , were left with a strong suspicion against stapleton .
mrs. stapleton knew that he had designs upon the old man , and also of the existence of the hound .
mrs. lyons knew neither of these things , but had been impressed by the death occurring at the time of an uncancelled appointment which was only known to him .
however , both of them were under his influence , and he had nothing to fear from them .
the first half of his task was successfully accomplished but the more difficult still remained .
" it is possible that stapleton did not know of the existence of an heir in canada .
in any case he would very soon learn it from his friend dr. mortimer , and he was told by the latter all details about the arrival of henry baskerville .
stapleton 's first idea was that this young stranger from canada might possibly be done to death in london without coming down to devonshire at all .
he distrusted his wife ever since she had refused to help him in laying a trap for the old man , and he dared not leave her long out of his sight for fear he should lose his influence over her .
it was for this reason that he took her to london with him .
they lodged , i find , at the mexborough private hotel , in craven street , which was actually one of those called upon by my agent in search of evidence .
here he kept his wife imprisoned in her room while he , disguised in a beard , followed dr. mortimer to baker street and afterwards to the station and to the northumberland hotel .
his wife had some inkling of his plans ; but she had such a fear of her husband--a fear founded upon brutal ill-treatment--that she dare not write to warn the man whom she knew to be in danger .
if the letter should fall into stapleton 's hands her own life would not be safe .
eventually , as we know , she adopted the expedient of cutting out the words which would form the message , and addressing the letter in a disguised hand .
it reached the baronet , and gave him the first warning of his danger .
" it was very essential for stapleton to get some article of sir henry 's attire so that , in case he was driven to use the dog , he might always have the means of setting him upon his track .
with characteristic promptness and audacity he set about this at once , and we cannot doubt that the boots or chamber-maid of the hotel was well bribed to help him in his design .
by chance , however , the first boot which was procured for him was a new one and , therefore , useless for his purpose .
he then had it returned and obtained another--a most instructive incident , since it proved conclusively to my mind that we were dealing with a real hound , as no other supposition could explain this anxiety to obtain an old boot and this indifference to a new one .
the more outre and grotesque an incident is the more carefully it deserves to be examined , and the very point which appears to complicate a case is , when duly considered and scientifically handled , the one which is most likely to elucidate it .
" then we had the visit from our friends next morning , shadowed always by stapleton in the cab .
from his knowledge of our rooms and of my appearance , as well as from his general conduct , i am inclined to think that stapleton 's career of crime has been by no means limited to this single baskerville affair .
it is suggestive that during the last three years there have been four considerable burglaries in the west country , for none of which was any criminal ever arrested .
the last of these , at folkestone court , in may , was remarkable for the cold-blooded pistoling of the page , who surprised the masked and solitary burglar .
i cannot doubt that stapleton recruited his waning resources in this fashion , and that for years he has been a desperate and dangerous man .
" we had an example of his readiness of resource that morning when he got away from us so successfully , and also of his audacity in sending back my own name to me through the cabman .
from that moment he understood that i had taken over the case in london , and that therefore there was no chance for him there .
he returned to dartmoor and awaited the arrival of the baronet . "
" one moment ! " said i .
" you have , no doubt , described the sequence of events correctly , but there is one point which you have left unexplained . what became of the hound when its master was in london ? "
" i have given some attention to this matter and it is undoubtedly of importance .
there can be no question that stapleton had a confidant , though it is unlikely that he ever placed himself in his power by sharing all his plans with him .
there was an old manservant at merripit house , whose name was anthony .
his connection with the stapletons can be traced for several years , as far back as the schoolmastering days , so that he must have been aware that his master and mistress were really husband and wife .
this man has disappeared and has escaped from the country .
it is suggestive that anthony is not a common name in england , while antonio is so in all spanish or spanish-american countries .
the man , like mrs. stapleton herself , spoke good english , but with a curious lisping accent .
i have myself seen this old man cross the grimpen mire by the path which stapleton had marked out .
it is very probable , therefore , that in the absence of his master it was he who cared for the hound , though he may never have known the purpose for which the beast was used .
" the stapletons then went down to devonshire , whither they were soon followed by sir henry and you .
one word now as to how i stood myself at that time .
it may possibly recur to your memory that when i examined the paper upon which the printed words were fastened i made a close inspection for the water-mark .
in doing so i held it within a few inches of my eyes , and was conscious of a faint smell of the scent known as white jessamine .
there are seventy-five perfumes , which it is very necessary that a criminal expert should be able to distinguish from each other , and cases have more than once within my own experience depended upon their prompt recognition .
the scent suggested the presence of a lady , and already my thoughts began to turn towards the stapletons .
thus i had made certain of the hound , and had guessed at the criminal before ever we went to the west country .
" it was my game to watch stapleton .
it was evident , however , that i could not do this if i were with you , since he would be keenly on his guard .
i deceived everybody , therefore , yourself included , and i came down secretly when i was supposed to be in london .
my hardships were not so great as you imagined , though such trifling details must never interfere with the investigation of a case .
i stayed for the most part at coombe tracey , and only used the hut upon the moor when it was necessary to be near the scene of action .
cartwright had come down with me , and in his disguise as a country boy he was of great assistance to me .
i was dependent upon him for food and clean linen .
when i was watching stapleton , cartwright was frequently watching you , so that i was able to keep my hand upon all the strings .
" i have already told you that your reports reached me rapidly , being forwarded instantly from baker street to coombe tracey .
they were of great service to me , and especially that one incidentally truthful piece of biography of stapleton 's .
i was able to establish the identity of the man and the woman and knew at last exactly how i stood .
the case had been considerably complicated through the incident of the escaped convict and the relations between him and the barrymores .
this also you cleared up in a very effective way , though i had already come to the same conclusions from my own observations .
" by the time that you discovered me upon the moor i had a complete knowledge of the whole business , but i had not a case which could go to a jury .
even stapleton 's attempt upon sir henry that night which ended in the death of the unfortunate convict did not help us much in proving murder against our man .
there seemed to be no alternative but to catch him red-handed , and to do so we had to use sir henry , alone and apparently unprotected , as a bait .
we did so , and at the cost of a severe shock to our client we succeeded in completing our case and driving stapleton to his destruction .
that sir henry should have been exposed to this is , i must confess , a reproach to my management of the case , but we had no means of foreseeing the terrible and paralyzing spectacle which the beast presented , nor could we predict the fog which enabled him to burst upon us at such short notice .
we succeeded in our object at a cost which both the specialist and dr. mortimer assure me will be a temporary one .
a long journey may enable our friend to recover not only from his shattered nerves but also from his wounded feelings .
his love for the lady was deep and sincere , and to him the saddest part of all this black business was that he should have been deceived by her .
" it only remains to indicate the part which she had played throughout .
there can be no doubt that stapleton exercised an influence over her which may have been love or may have been fear , or very possibly both , since they are by no means incompatible emotions .
it was , at least , absolutely effective . at his command she consented to pass as his sister , though he found the limits of his power over her when he endeavoured to make her the direct accessory to murder .
she was ready to warn sir henry so far as she could without implicating her husband , and again and again she tried to do so .
stapleton himself seems to have been capable of jealousy , and when he saw the baronet paying court to the lady , even though it was part of his own plan , still he could not help interrupting with a passionate outburst which revealed the fiery soul which his self-contained manner so cleverly concealed .
by encouraging the intimacy he made it certain that sir henry would frequently come to merripit house and that he would sooner or later get the opportunity which he desired .
on the day of the crisis , however , his wife turned suddenly against him .
she had learned something of the death of the convict , and she knew that the hound was being kept in the out-house on the evening that sir henry was coming to dinner .
she taxed her husband with his intended crime , and a furious scene followed , in which he showed her for the first time that she had a rival in his love .
her fidelity turned in an instant to bitter hatred and he saw that she would betray him .
he tied her up , therefore , that she might have no chance of warning sir henry , and he hoped , no doubt , that when the whole country-side put down the baronet 's death to the curse of his family , as they certainly would do , he could win his wife back to accept an accomplished fact and to keep silent upon what she knew .
in this i fancy that in any case he made a miscalculation , and that , if we had not been there , his doom would none the less have been sealed .
a woman of spanish blood does not condone such an injury so lightly .
and now , my dear watson , without referring to my notes , i cannot give you a more detailed account of this curious case .
i do not know that anything essential has been left unexplained . "
" he could not hope to frighten sir henry to death as he had done the old uncle with his bogie hound . "
" the beast was savage and half-starved .
if its appearance did not frighten its victim to death , at least it would paralyze the resistance which might be offered . "
" no doubt .
there only remains one difficulty .
if stapleton came into the succession , how could he explain the fact that he , the heir , had been living unannounced under another name so close to the property ?
how could he claim it without causing suspicion and inquiry ? "
" it is a formidable difficulty , and i fear that you ask too much when you expect me to solve it .
the past and the present are within the field of my inquiry , but what a man may do in the future is a hard question to answer .
mrs. stapleton has heard her husband discuss the problem on several occasions .
there were three possible courses .
he might claim the property from south america , establish his identity before the british authorities there and so obtain the fortune without ever coming to england at all ; or he might adopt an elaborate disguise during the short time that he need be in london ; or , again , he might furnish an accomplice with the proofs and papers , putting him in as heir , and retaining a claim upon some proportion of his income .
we cannot doubt from what we know of him that he would have found some way out of the difficulty .
and now , my dear watson , we have had some weeks of severe work , and for one evening , i think , we may turn our thoughts into more pleasant channels .
i have a box for ' les huguenots . '
have you heard the de reszkes ?
might i trouble you then to be ready in half an hour , and we can stop at marcini 's for a little dinner on the way ? "
rodney stone
arthur conan doyle
chapter i--friar 's oak
on this , the first of january of the year 1851 , the nineteenth century has reached its midway term , and many of us who shared its youth have already warnings which tell us that it has outworn us .
we put our grizzled heads together , we older ones , and we talk of the great days that we have known ; but we find that when it is with our children that we talk it is a hard matter to make them understand .
we and our fathers before us lived much the same life , but they with their railway trains and their steamboats belong to a different age .
it is true that we can put history-books into their hands , and they can read from them of our weary struggle of two and twenty years with that great and evil man .
they can learn how freedom fled from the whole broad continent , and how nelson 's blood was shed , and pitt 's noble heart was broken in striving that she should not pass us for ever to take refuge with our brothers across the atlantic .
all this they can read , with the date of this treaty or that battle , but i do not know where they are to read of ourselves , of the folk we were , and the lives we led , and how the world seemed to our eyes when they were young as theirs are now .
if i take up my pen to tell you about this , you must not look for any story at my hands , for i was only in my earliest manhood when these things befell ; and although i saw something of the stories of other lives , i could scarce claim one of my own .
it is the love of a woman that makes the story of a man , and many a year was to pass before i first looked into the eyes of the mother of my children .
to us it seems but an affair of yesterday , and yet those children can now reach the plums in the garden whilst we are seeking for a ladder , and where we once walked with their little hands in ours , we are glad now to lean upon their arms .
but i shall speak of a time when the love of a mother was the only love i knew , and if you seek for something more , then it is not for you that i write .
but if you would come out with me into that forgotten world ; if you would know boy jim and champion harrison ; if you would meet my father , one of nelson 's own men ; if you would catch a glimpse of that great seaman himself , and of george , afterwards the unworthy king of england ; if , above all , you would see my famous uncle , sir charles tregellis , the king of the bucks , and the great fighting men whose names are still household words amongst you , then give me your hand and let us start .
but i must warn you also that , if you think you will find much that is of interest in your guide , you are destined to disappointment .
when i look over my bookshelves , i can see that it is only the wise and witty and valiant who have ventured to write down their experiences .
for my own part , if i were only assured that i was as clever and brave as the average man about me , i should be well satisfied .
men of their hands have thought well of my brains , and men of brains of my hands , and that is the best that i can say of myself .
save in the one matter of having an inborn readiness for music , so that the mastery of any instrument comes very easily and naturally to me , i cannot recall any single advantage which i can boast over my fellows .
in all things i have been a half-way man , for i am of middle height , my eyes are neither blue nor grey , and my hair , before nature dusted it with her powder , was betwixt flaxen and brown .
i may , perhaps , claim this : that through life i have never felt a touch of jealousy as i have admired a better man than myself , and that i have always seen all things as they are , myself included , which should count in my favour now that i sit down in my mature age to write my memories .
with your permission , then , we will push my own personality as far as possible out of the picture .
if you can conceive me as a thin and colourless cord upon which my would-be pearls are strung , you will be accepting me upon the terms which i should wish .
our family , the stones , have for many generations belonged to the navy , and it has been a custom among us for the eldest son to take the name of his father 's favourite commander .
thus we can trace our lineage back to old vernon stone , who commanded a high-sterned , peak-nosed , fifty-gun ship against the dutch .
through hawke stone and benbow stone we came down to my father , anson stone , who in his turn christened me rodney , at the parish church of st. thomas at portsmouth in the year of grace 1786 .
out of my window as i write i can see my own great lad in the garden , and if i were to call out " nelson ! " you would see that i have been true to the traditions of our family .
my dear mother , the best that ever a man had , was the second daughter of the reverend john tregellis , vicar of milton , which is a small parish upon the borders of the marshes of langstone .
she came of a poor family , but one of some position , for her elder brother was the famous sir charles tregellis , who , having inherited the money of a wealthy east indian merchant , became in time the talk of the town and the very particular friend of the prince of wales .
of him i shall have more to say hereafter ; but you will note now that he was my own uncle , and brother to my mother .
i can remember her all through her beautiful life for she was but a girl when she married , and little more when i can first recall her busy fingers and her gentle voice .
i see her as a lovely woman with kind , dove 's eyes , somewhat short of stature it is true , but carrying herself very bravely .
in my memories of those days she is clad always in some purple shimmering stuff , with a white kerchief round her long white neck , and i see her fingers turning and darting as she works at her knitting .
i see her again in her middle years , sweet and loving , planning , contriving , achieving , with the few shillings a day of a lieutenant 's pay on which to support the cottage at friar 's oak , and to keep a fair face to the world .
and now , if i do but step into the parlour , i can see her once more , with over eighty years of saintly life behind her , silver-haired , placid-faced , with her dainty ribboned cap , her gold-rimmed glasses , and her woolly shawl with the blue border .
i loved her young and i love her old , and when she goes she will take something with her which nothing in the world can ever make good to me again .
you may have many friends , you who read this , and you may chance to marry more than once , but your mother is your first and your last .
cherish her , then , whilst you may , for the day will come when every hasty deed or heedless word will come back with its sting to hive in your own heart .
such , then , was my mother ; and as to my father , i can describe him best when i come to the time when he returned to us from the mediterranean .
during all my childhood he was only a name to me , and a face in a miniature hung round my mother 's neck .
at first they told me he was fighting the french , and then after some years one heard less about the french and more about general buonaparte .
i remember the awe with which one day in thomas street , portsmouth , i saw a print of the great corsican in a bookseller 's window .
this , then , was the arch enemy with whom my father spent his life in terrible and ceaseless contest .
to my childish imagination it was a personal affair , and i for ever saw my father and this clean-shaven , thin-lipped man swaying and reeling in a deadly , year-long grapple .
it was not until i went to the grammar school that i understood how many other little boys there were whose fathers were in the same case .
only once in those long years did my father return home , which will show you what it meant to be the wife of a sailor in those days .
it was just after we had moved from portsmouth to friar 's oak , whither he came for a week before he set sail with admiral jervis to help him to turn his name into lord st. vincent .
i remember that he frightened as well as fascinated me with his talk of battles , and i can recall as if it were yesterday the horror with which i gazed upon a spot of blood upon his shirt ruffle , which had come , as i have no doubt , from a mischance in shaving .
at the time i never questioned that it had spurted from some stricken frenchman or spaniard , and i shrank from him in terror when he laid his horny hand upon my head .
my mother wept bitterly when he was gone , but for my own part i was not sorry to see his blue back and white shorts going down the garden walk , for i felt , with the heedless selfishness of a child , that we were closer together , she and i , when we were alone .
i was in my eleventh year when we moved from portsmouth to friar 's oak , a little sussex village to the north of brighton , which was recommended to us by my uncle , sir charles tregellis , one of whose grand friends , lord avon , had had his seat near there .
the reason of our moving was that living was cheaper in the country , and that it was easier for my mother to keep up the appearance of a gentlewoman when away from the circle of those to whom she could not refuse hospitality .
they were trying times those to all save the farmers , who made such profits that they could , as i have heard , afford to let half their land lie fallow , while living like gentlemen upon the rest .
wheat was at a hundred and ten shillings a quarter , and the quartern loaf at one and ninepence .
even in the quiet of the cottage of friar 's oak we could scarce have lived , were it not that in the blockading squadron in which my father was stationed there was the occasional chance of a little prize-money .
the line-of-battle ships themselves , tacking on and off outside brest , could earn nothing save honour ; but the frigates in attendance made prizes of many coasters , and these , as is the rule of the service , were counted as belonging to the fleet , and their produce divided into head-money .
in this manner my father was able to send home enough to keep the cottage and to pay for me at the day school of mr. joshua allen , where for four years i learned all that he had to teach .
it was at allen 's school that i first knew jim harrison , boy jim as he has always been called , the nephew of champion harrison of the village smithy .
i can see him as he was in those days with great , floundering , half-formed limbs like a newfoundland puppy , and a face that set every woman 's head round as he passed her .
it was in those days that we began our lifelong friendship , a friendship which still in our waning years binds us closely as two brothers .
i taught him his exercises , for he never loved the sight of a book , and he in turn made me box and wrestle , tickle trout on the adur , and snare rabbits on ditching down , for his hands were as active as his brain was slow .
he was two years my elder , however , so that , long before i had finished my schooling , he had gone to help his uncle at the smithy .
friar 's oak is in a dip of the downs , and the forty-third milestone between london and brighton lies on the skirt of the village .
it is but a small place , with an ivied church , a fine vicarage , and a row of red-brick cottages each in its own little garden .
at one end was the forge of champion harrison , with his house behind it , and at the other was mr. allen 's school .
the yellow cottage , standing back a little from the road , with its upper story bulging forward and a crisscross of black woodwork let into the plaster , is the one in which we lived .
i do not know if it is still standing , but i should think it likely , for it was not a place much given to change .
just opposite to us , at the other side of the broad , white road , was the friar 's oak inn , which was kept in my day by john cummings , a man of excellent repute at home , but liable to strange outbreaks when he travelled , as will afterwards become apparent .
though there was a stream of traffic upon the road , the coaches from brighton were too fresh to stop , and those from london too eager to reach their journey 's end , so that if it had not been for an occasional broken trace or loosened wheel , the landlord would have had only the thirsty throats of the village to trust to .
those were the days when the prince of wales had just built his singular palace by the sea , and so from may to september , which was the brighton season , there was never a day that from one to two hundred curricles , chaises , and phaetons did not rattle past our doors .
many a summer evening have boy jim and i lain upon the grass , watching all these grand folk , and cheering the london coaches as they came roaring through the dust clouds , leaders and wheelers stretched to their work , the bugles screaming and the coachmen with their low-crowned , curly-brimmed hats , and their faces as scarlet as their coats .
the passengers used to laugh when boy jim shouted at them , but if they could have read his big , half-set limbs and his loose shoulders aright , they would have looked a little harder at him , perhaps , and given him back his cheer .
boy jim had never known a father or a mother , and his whole life had been spent with his uncle , champion harrison .
harrison was the friar 's oak blacksmith , and he had his nickname because he fought tom johnson when he held the english belt , and would most certainly have beaten him had the bedfordshire magistrates not appeared to break up the fight .
for years there was no such glutton to take punishment and no more finishing hitter than harrison , though he was always , as i understand , a slow one upon his feet .
at last , in a fight with black baruk the jew , he finished the battle with such a lashing hit that he not only knocked his opponent over the inner ropes , but he left him betwixt life and death for long three weeks .
during all this time harrison lived half demented , expecting every hour to feel the hand of a bow street runner upon his collar , and to be tried for his life .
this experience , with the prayers of his wife , made him forswear the ring for ever , and carry his great muscles into the one trade in which they seemed to give him an advantage .
there was a good business to be done at friar 's oak from the passing traffic and the sussex farmers , so that he soon became the richest of the villagers ; and he came to church on a sunday with his wife and his nephew , looking as respectable a family man as one would wish to see .
he was not a tall man , not more than five feet seven inches , and it was often said that if he had had an extra inch of reach he would have been a match for jackson or belcher at their best .
his chest was like a barrel , and his forearms were the most powerful that i have ever seen , with deep groves between the smooth-swelling muscles like a piece of water-worn rock .
in spite of his strength , however , he was of a slow , orderly , and kindly disposition , so that there was no man more beloved over the whole country side .
his heavy , placid , clean-shaven face could set very sternly , as i have seen upon occasion ; but for me and every child in the village there was ever a smile upon his lips and a greeting in his eyes .
there was not a beggar upon the country side who did not know that his heart was as soft as his muscles were hard .
there was nothing that he liked to talk of more than his old battles , but he would stop if he saw his little wife coming , for the one great shadow in her life was the ever-present fear that some day he would throw down sledge and rasp and be off to the ring once more .
and you must be reminded here once for all that that former calling of his was by no means at that time in the debased condition to which it afterwards fell .
public opinion has gradually become opposed to it , for the reason that it came largely into the hands of rogues , and because it fostered ringside ruffianism .
even the honest and brave pugilist was found to draw villainy round him , just as the pure and noble racehorse does .
for this reason the ring is dying in england , and we may hope that when caunt and bendigo have passed away , they may have none to succeed them .
but it was different in the days of which i speak .
public opinion was then largely in its favour , and there were good reasons why it should be so .
it was a time of war , when england with an army and navy composed only of those who volunteered to fight because they had fighting blood in them , had to encounter , as they would now have to encounter , a power which could by despotic law turn every citizen into a soldier .
if the people had not been full of this lust for combat , it is certain that england must have been overborne .
and it was thought , and is , on the face of it , reasonable , that a struggle between two indomitable men , with thirty thousand to view it and three million to discuss it , did help to set a standard of hardihood and endurance .
brutal it was , no doubt , and its brutality is the end of it ; but it is not so brutal as war , which will survive it .
whether it is logical now to teach the people to be peaceful in an age when their very existence may come to depend upon their being warlike , is a question for wiser heads than mine .
but that was what we thought of it in the days of your grandfathers , and that is why you might find statesmen and philanthropists like windham , fox , and althorp at the side of the ring .
the mere fact that solid men should patronize it was enough in itself to prevent the villainy which afterwards crept in .
for over twenty years , in the days of jackson , brain , cribb , the belchers , pearce , gully , and the rest , the leaders of the ring were men whose honesty was above suspicion ; and those were just the twenty years when the ring may , as i have said , have served a national purpose .
you have heard how pearce saved the bristol girl from the burning house , how jackson won the respect and friendship of the best men of his age , and how gully rose to a seat in the first reformed parliament .
these were the men who set the standard , and their trade carried with it this obvious recommendation , that it is one in which no drunken or foul-living man could long succeed .
there were exceptions among them , no doubt--bullies like hickman and brutes like berks ; in the main , i say again that they were honest men , brave and enduring to an incredible degree , and a credit to the country which produced them .
it was , as you will see , my fate to see something of them , and i speak of what i know .
in our own village , i can assure you that we were very proud of the presence of such a man as champion harrison , and if folks stayed at the inn , they would walk down as far as the smithy just to have the sight of him .
and he was worth seeing , too , especially on a winter 's night when the red glare of the forge would beat upon his great muscles and upon the proud , hawk-face of boy jim as they heaved and swayed over some glowing plough coulter , framing themselves in sparks with every blow .
he would strike once with his thirty-pound swing sledge , and jim twice with his hand hammer ; and the " clunk--clink , clink ! clunk--clink , clink ! " would bring me flying down the village street , on the chance that , since they were both at the anvil , there might be a place for me at the bellows .
only once during those village years can i remember champion harrison showing me for an instant the sort of man that he had been .
it chanced one summer morning , when boy jim and i were standing by the smithy door , that there came a private coach from brighton , with its four fresh horses , and its brass-work shining , flying along with such a merry rattle and jingling , that the champion came running out with a hall-fullered shoe in his tongs to have a look at it .
a gentleman in a white coachman 's cape--a corinthian , as we would call him in those days--was driving , and half a dozen of his fellows , laughing and shouting , were on the top behind him .
it may have been that the bulk of the smith caught his eye , and that he acted in pure wantonness , or it may possibly have been an accident , but , as he swung past , the twenty-foot thong of the driver 's whip hissed round , and we heard the sharp snap of it across harrison 's leather apron .
" halloa , master ! " shouted the smith , looking after him . " you 're not to be trusted on the box until you can handle your whip better 'n that . "
" what 's that ? " cried the driver , pulling up his team .
" i bid you have a care , master , or there will be some one-eyed folk along the road you drive . "
" oh , you say that , do you ? " said the driver , putting his whip into its socket and pulling off his driving-gloves .
" i 'll have a little talk with you , my fine fellow . "
the sporting gentlemen of those days were very fine boxers for the most part , for it was the mode to take a course of mendoza , just as a few years afterwards there was no man about town who had not had the mufflers on with jackson .
knowing their own prowess , they never refused the chance of a wayside adventure , and it was seldom indeed that the bargee or the navigator had much to boast of after a young blood had taken off his coat to him .
this one swung himself off the box-seat with the alacrity of a man who has no doubts about the upshot of the quarrel , and after hanging his caped coat upon the swingle-bar , he daintily turned up the ruffled cuffs of his white cambric shirt . " i 'll pay you for your advice , my man , " said he .
i am sure that the men upon the coach knew who the burly smith was , and looked upon it as a prime joke to see their companion walk into such a trap .
they roared with delight , and bellowed out scraps of advice to him .
" knock some of the soot off him , lord frederick ! " they shouted .
" give the johnny raw his breakfast .
chuck him in among his own cinders !
sharp 's the word , or you 'll see the back of him . "
encouraged by these cries , the young aristocrat advanced upon his man .
the smith never moved , but his mouth set grim and hard , while his tufted brows came down over his keen , grey eyes .
the tongs had fallen , and his hands were hanging free .
" have a care , master , " said he .
" you 'll get pepper if you don 't . "
something in the assured voice , and something also in the quiet pose , warned the young lord of his danger .
i saw him look hard at his antagonist , and as he did so , his hands and his jaw dropped together .
" by gad ! " he cried , " it 's jack harrison ! " " my name , master ! "
" and i thought you were some essex chaw-bacon !
why , man , i haven 't seen you since the day you nearly killed black baruk , and cost me a cool hundred by doing it . "
how they roared on the coach .
" smoked !
smoked , by gad ! " they yelled . " it 's jack harrison the bruiser !
lord frederick was going to take on the ex-champion .
give him one on the apron , fred , and see what happens . "
but the driver had already climbed back into his perch , laughing as loudly as any of his companions .
" we 'll let you off this time , harrison , " said he .
" are those your sons down there ? "
" this is my nephew , master . "
" here 's a guinea for him !
he shall never say i robbed him of his uncle . "
and so , having turned the laugh in his favour by his merry way of taking it , he cracked his whip , and away they flew to make london under the five hours ; while jack harrison , with his half- fullered shoe in his hand , went whistling back to the forge .
chapter ii--the walker of cliffe royal
so much for champion harrison !
now , i wish to say something more about boy jim , not only because he was the comrade of my youth , but because you will find as you go on that this book is his story rather than mine , and that there came a time when his name and his fame were in the mouths of all england .
you will bear with me , therefore , while i tell you of his character as it was in those days , and especially of one very singular adventure which neither of us are likely to forget .
it was strange to see jim with his uncle and his aunt , for he seemed to be of another race and breed to them .
often i have watched them come up the aisle upon a sunday , first the square , thick-set man , and then the little , worn , anxious-eyed woman , and last this glorious lad with his clear-cut face , his black curls , and his step so springy and light that it seemed as if he were bound to earth by some lesser tie than the heavy-footed villagers round him .
he had not yet attained his full six foot of stature , but no judge of a man ( and every woman , at least , is one ) could look at his perfect shoulders , his narrow loins , and his proud head that sat upon his neck like an eagle upon its perch , without feeling that sober joy which all that is beautiful in nature gives to us--a vague self- content , as though in some way we also had a hand in the making of it .
but we are used to associate beauty with softness in a man .
i do not know why they should be so coupled , and they never were with jim .
of all men that i have known , he was the most iron-hard in body and in mind .
who was there among us who could walk with him , or run with him , or swim with him ?
who on all the country side , save only boy jim , would have swung himself over wolstonbury cliff , and clambered down a hundred feet with the mother hawk flapping at his ears in the vain struggle to hold him from her nest ?
he was but sixteen , with his gristle not yet all set into bone , when he fought and beat gipsy lee , of burgess hill , who called himself the " cock of the south downs . "
it was after this that champion harrison took his training as a boxer in hand .
" i 'd rather you left millin ' alone , boy jim , " said he , " and so had the missus ; but if mill you must , it will not be my fault if you cannot hold up your hands to anything in the south country . "
and it was not long before he made good his promise .
i have said already that boy jim had no love for his books , but by that i meant school-books , for when it came to the reading of romances or of anything which had a touch of gallantry or adventure , there was no tearing him away from it until it was finished .
when such a book came into his hands , friar 's oak and the smithy became a dream to him , and his life was spent out upon the ocean or wandering over the broad continents with his heroes .
and he would draw me into his enthusiasms also , so that i was glad to play friday to his crusoe when he proclaimed that the clump at clayton was a desert island , and that we were cast upon it for a week .
but when i found that we were actually to sleep out there without covering every night , and that he proposed that our food should be the sheep of the downs ( wild goats he called them ) cooked upon a fire , which was to be made by the rubbing together of two sticks , my heart failed me , and on the very first night i crept away to my mother .
but jim stayed out there for the whole weary week--a wet week it was , too ! -- and came back at the end of it looking a deal wilder and dirtier than his hero does in the picture-books .
it is well that he had only promised to stay a week , for , if it had been a month , he would have died of cold and hunger before his pride would have let him come home .
his pride ! --that was the deepest thing in all jim 's nature .
it is a mixed quality to my mind , half a virtue and half a vice : a virtue in holding a man out of the dirt ; a vice in making it hard for him to rise when once he has fallen .
jim was proud down to the very marrow of his bones .
you remember the guinea that the young lord had thrown him from the box of the coach ?
two days later somebody picked it from the roadside mud .
jim only had seen where it had fallen , and he would not deign even to point it out to a beggar .
even at school he was the same , with such a sense of his own dignity , that other folk had to think of it too .
he might say , as he did say , that a right angle was a proper sort of angle , or put panama in sicily , but old joshua allen would as soon have thought of raising his cane against him as he would of letting me off if i had said as much .
and so it was that , although jim was the son of nobody , and i of a king 's officer , it always seemed to me to have been a condescension on his part that he should have chosen me as his friend .
it was this pride of boy jim 's which led to an adventure which makes me shiver now when i think of it .
it happened in the august of ' 99 , or it may have been in the early days of september ; but i remember that we heard the cuckoo in patcham wood , and that jim said that perhaps it was the last of him . i was still at school , but jim had left , he being nigh sixteen and i thirteen .
it was my saturday half-holiday , and we spent it , as we often did , out upon the downs .
our favourite place was beyond wolstonbury , where we could stretch ourselves upon the soft , springy , chalk grass among the plump little southdown sheep , chatting with the shepherds , as they leaned upon their queer old pyecombe crooks , made in the days when sussex turned out more iron than all the counties of england .
it was there that we lay upon that glorious afternoon .
if we chose to roll upon our right sides , the whole weald lay in front of us , with the north downs curving away in olive-green folds , with here and there the snow-white rift of a chalk-pit ; if we turned upon our left , we overlooked the huge blue stretch of the channel .
a convoy , as i can well remember , was coming up it that day , the timid flock of merchantmen in front ; the frigates , like well-trained dogs , upon the skirts ; and two burly drover line-of-battle ships rolling along behind them .
my fancy was soaring out to my father upon the waters , when a word from jim brought it back on to the grass like a broken- winged gull .
" roddy , " said he , " have you heard that cliffe royal is haunted ? "
had i heard it ?
of course i had heard it .
who was there in all the down country who had not heard of the walker of cliffe royal ?
" do you know the story of it , roddy ? "
" why , " said i , with some pride , " i ought to know it , seeing that my mother 's brother , sir charles tregellis , was the nearest friend of lord avon , and was at this card-party when the thing happened .
i heard the vicar and my mother talking about it last week , and it was all so clear to me that i might have been there when the murder was done . "
" it is a strange story , " said jim , thoughtfully ; " but when i asked my aunt about it , she would give me no answer ; and as to my uncle , he cut me short at the very mention of it . "
" there is a good reason for that , " said i , " for lord avon was , as i have heard , your uncle 's best friend ; and it is but natural that he would not wish to speak of his disgrace . "
" tell me the story , roddy . "
" it is an old one now--fourteen years old--and yet they have not got to the end of it .
there were four of them who had come down from london to spend a few days in lord avon 's old house .
one was his own young brother , captain barrington ; another was his cousin , sir lothian hume ; sir charles tregellis , my uncle , was the third ; and lord avon the fourth .
they are fond of playing cards for money , these great people , and they played and played for two days and a night .
lord avon lost , and sir lothian lost , and my uncle lost , and captain barrington won until he could win no more .
he won their money , but above all he won papers from his elder brother which meant a great deal to him .
it was late on a monday night that they stopped playing .
on the tuesday morning captain barrington was found dead beside his bed with his throat cut .
" and lord avon did it ? "
" his papers were found burned in the grate , his wristband was clutched in the dead man 's hand , and his knife lay beside the body . "
" did they hang him , then ? "
" they were too slow in laying hands upon him .
he waited until he saw that they had brought it home to him , and then he fled .
he has never been seen since , but it is said that he reached america . "
" and the ghost walks ? "
" there are many who have seen it . "
" why is the house still empty ? "
" because it is in the keeping of the law .
lord avon had no children , and sir lothian hume--the same who was at the card-party-- is his nephew and heir .
but he can touch nothing until he can prove lord avon to be dead . "
jim lay silent for a bit , plucking at the short grass with his fingers .
" roddy , " said he at last , " will you come with me to-night and look for the ghost ? "
it turned me cold , the very thought of it .
" my mother would not let me . "
" slip out when she 's abed .
i 'll wait for you at the smithy . "
" cliffe royal is locked . "
" i 'll open a window easy enough . "
" i 'm afraid , jim . "
" but you are not afraid if you are with me , roddy .
i 'll promise you that no ghost shall hurt you . "
so i gave him my word that i would come , and then all the rest of the day i went about the most sad-faced lad in sussex .
it was all very well for boy jim !
it was that pride of his which was taking him there .
he would go because there was no one else on the country side that would dare .
but i had no pride of that sort .
i was quite of the same way of thinking as the others , and would as soon have thought of passing my night at jacob 's gibbet on ditchling common as in the haunted house of cliffe royal .
still , i could not bring myself to desert jim ; and so , as i say , i slunk about the house with so pale and peaky a face that my dear mother would have it that i had been at the green apples , and sent me to bed early with a dish of camomile tea for my supper .
england went to rest betimes in those days , for there were few who could afford the price of candles .
when i looked out of my window just after the clock had gone ten , there was not a light in the village save only at the inn .
it was but a few feet from the ground , so i slipped out , and there was jim waiting for me at the smithy corner .
we crossed john 's common together , and so past ridden 's farm , meeting only one or two riding officers upon the way .
there was a brisk wind blowing , and the moon kept peeping through the rifts of the scud , so that our road was sometimes silver-clear , and sometimes so black that we found ourselves among the brambles and gorse-bushes which lined it .
we came at last to the wooden gate with the high stone pillars by the roadside , and , looking through between the rails , we saw the long avenue of oaks , and at the end of this ill-boding tunnel , the pale face of the house glimmered in the moonshine .
that would have been enough for me , that one glimpse of it , and the sound of the night wind sighing and groaning among the branches .
but jim swung the gate open , and up we went , the gravel squeaking beneath our tread .
it towered high , the old house , with many little windows in which the moon glinted , and with a strip of water running round three sides of it .
the arched door stood right in the face of us , and on one side a lattice hung open upon its hinges .
" we 're in luck , roddy , " whispered jim .
" here 's one of the windows open . "
" don 't you think we 've gone far enough , jim ? " said i , with my teeth chattering .
" i 'll lift you in first . "
" no , no , i 'll not go first . "
" then i will . "
he gripped the sill , and had his knee on it in an instant .
" now , roddy , give me your hands . "
with a pull he had me up beside him , and a moment later we were both in the haunted house .
how hollow it sounded when we jumped down on to the wooden floor !
there was such a sudden boom and reverberation that we both stood silent for a moment .
then jim burst out laughing .
" what an old drum of a place it is ! " he cried ; " we 'll strike a light , roddy , and see where we are . "
he had brought a candle and a tinder-box in his pocket .
when the flame burned up , we saw an arched stone roof above our heads , and broad deal shelves all round us covered with dusty dishes .
it was the pantry .
" i 'll show you round , " said jim , merrily ; and , pushing the door open , he led the way into the hall .
i remember the high , oak- panelled walls , with the heads of deer jutting out , and a single white bust , which sent my heart into my mouth , in the corner .
many rooms opened out of this , and we wandered from one to the other--the kitchens , the still-room , the morning-room , the dining-room , all filled with the same choking smell of dust and of mildew .
" this is where they played the cards , jim , " said i , in a hushed voice . " it was on that very table . "
" why , here are the cards themselves ! " cried he ; and he pulled a brown towel from something in the centre of the sideboard .
sure enough it was a pile of playing-cards--forty packs , i should think , at the least--which had lain there ever since that tragic game which was played before i was born .
" i wonder whence that stair leads ? " said jim .
" don 't go up there , jim ! "
i cried , clutching at his arm .
" that must lead to the room of the murder . "
" how do you know that ? "
" the vicar said that they saw on the ceiling--oh , jim , you can see it even now ! "
he held up his candle , and there was a great , dark smudge upon the white plaster above us .
" i believe you 're right , " said he ; " but anyhow i 'm going to have a look at it . "
" don 't , jim , don 't ! " i cried .
" tut , roddy ! you can stay here if you are afraid .
i won 't be more than a minute .
there 's no use going on a ghost hunt unless--great lord , there 's something coming down the stairs ! "
i heard it too--a shuffling footstep in the room above , and then a creak from the steps , and then another creak , and another .
i saw jim 's face as if it had been carved out of ivory , with his parted lips and his staring eyes fixed upon the black square of the stair opening .
he still held the light , but his fingers twitched , and with every twitch the shadows sprang from the walls to the ceiling .
as to myself , my knees gave way under me , and i found myself on the floor crouching down behind jim , with a scream frozen in my throat .
and still the step came slowly from stair to stair .
then , hardly daring to look and yet unable to turn away my eyes , i saw a figure dimly outlined in the corner upon which the stair opened .
there was a silence in which i could hear my poor heart thumping , and then when i looked again the figure was gone , and the low creak , creak was heard once more upon the stairs .
jim sprang after it , and i was left half-fainting in the moonlight .
but it was not for long .
he was down again in a minute , and , passing his hand under my arm , he half led and half carried me out of the house .
it was not until we were in the fresh night air again that he opened his mouth .
" can you stand , roddy ? "
" yes , but i 'm shaking . "
" so am i , " said he , passing his hand over his forehead .
" i ask your pardon , roddy .
i was a fool to bring you on such an errand .
but i never believed in such things . i know better now . "
" could it have been a man , jim ? " i asked , plucking up my courage now that i could hear the dogs barking on the farms .
" it was a spirit , rodney . "
" how do you know ? "
" because i followed it and saw it vanish into a wall , as easily as an eel into sand .
why , roddy , what 's amiss now ? "
my fears were all back upon me , and every nerve creeping with horror .
" take me away , jim !
take me away ! " i cried .
i was glaring down the avenue , and his eyes followed mine .
amid the gloom of the oak trees something was coming towards us .
" quiet , roddy ! " whispered jim .
" by heavens , come what may , my arms are going round it this time . "
we crouched as motionless as the trunks behind us .
heavy steps ploughed their way through the soft gravel , and a broad figure loomed upon us in the darkness .
jim sprang upon it like a tiger .
" you 're not a spirit , anyway ! " he cried .
the man gave a shout of surprise , and then a growl of rage .
" what the deuce ! " he roared , and then , " i 'll break your neck if you don 't let go . "
the threat might not have loosened jim 's grip , but the voice did .
" why , uncle ! " he cried .
" well , i 'm blessed if it isn 't boy jim !
and what 's this ?
why , it 's young master rodney stone , as i 'm a living sinner !
what in the world are you two doing up at cliffe royal at this time of night ? "
we had all moved out into the moonlight , and there was champion harrison with a big bundle on his arm , --and such a look of amazement upon his face as would have brought a smile back on to mine had my heart not still been cramped with fear .
" we 're exploring , " said jim .
" exploring , are you ?
well , i don 't think you were meant to be captain cooks , either of you , for i never saw such a pair of peeled- turnip faces .
why , jim , what are you afraid of ? "
" i 'm not afraid , uncle . i never was afraid ; but spirits are new to me , and-- "
" spirits ? "
" i 've been in cliffe royal , and we 've seen the ghost . "
the champion gave a whistle .
" that 's the game , is it ? " said he .
" did you have speech with it ? "
" it vanished first . "
the champion whistled once more .
" i 've heard there is something of the sort up yonder , " said he ; " but it 's not a thing as i would advise you to meddle with .
there 's enough trouble with the folk of this world , boy jim , without going out of your way to mix up with those of another .
as to young master rodney stone , if his good mother saw that white face of his , she 'd never let him come to the smithy more .
walk slowly on , and i 'll see you back to friar 's oak . "
we had gone half a mile , perhaps , when the champion overtook us , and i could not but observe that the bundle was no longer under his arm .
we were nearly at the smithy before jim asked the question which was already in my mind .
" what took you up to cliffe royal , uncle ? "
" well , as a man gets on in years , " said the champion , " there 's many a duty turns up that the likes of you have no idea of .
when you 're near forty yourself , you 'll maybe know the truth of what i say . "
so that was all we could draw from him ; but , young as i was , i had heard of coast smuggling and of packages carried to lonely places at night , so that from that time on , if i had heard that the preventives had made a capture , i was never easy until i saw the jolly face of champion harrison looking out of his smithy door .
chapter iii--the play-actress of anstey cross
i have told you something about friar 's oak , and about the life that we led there .
now that my memory goes back to the old place it would gladly linger , for every thread which i draw from the skein of the past brings out half a dozen others that were entangled with it .
i was in two minds when i began whether i had enough in me to make a book of , and now i know that i could write one about friar 's oak alone , and the folk whom i knew in my childhood .
they were hard and uncouth , some of them , i doubt not ; and yet , seen through the golden haze of time , they all seem sweet and lovable .
there was our good vicar , mr. jefferson , who loved the whole world save only mr. slack , the baptist minister of clayton ; and there was kindly mr. slack , who was all men 's brother save only of mr. jefferson , the vicar of friar 's oak .
then there was monsieur rudin , the french royalist refugee who lived over on the pangdean road , and who , when the news of a victory came in , was convulsed with joy because we had beaten buonaparte , and shaken with rage because we had beaten the french , so that after the nile he wept for a whole day out of delight and then for another one out of fury , alternately clapping his hands and stamping his feet .
well i remember his thin , upright figure and the way in which he jauntily twirled his little cane ; for cold and hunger could not cast him down , though we knew that he had his share of both .
yet he was so proud and had such a grand manner of talking , that no one dared to offer him a cloak or a meal .
i can see his face now , with a flush over each craggy cheek-bone when the butcher made him the present of some ribs of beef .
he could not but take it , and yet whilst he was stalking off he threw a proud glance over his shoulder at the butcher , and he said , " monsieur , i have a dog ! "
yet it was monsieur rudin and not his dog who looked plumper for a week to come .
then i remember mr. paterson , the farmer , who was what you would now call a radical , though at that time some called him a priestley-ite , and some a fox-ite , and nearly everybody a traitor .
it certainly seemed to me at the time to be very wicked that a man should look glum when he heard of a british victory ; and when they burned his straw image at the gate of his farm , boy jim and i were among those who lent a hand .
but we were bound to confess that he was game , though he might be a traitor , for down he came , striding into the midst of us with his brown coat and his buckled shoes , and the fire beating upon his grim , schoolmaster face .
my word , how he rated us , and how glad we were at last to sneak quietly away .
" you livers of a lie ! " said he . " you and those like you have been preaching peace for nigh two thousand years , and cutting throats the whole time .
if the money that is lost in taking french lives were spent in saving english ones , you would have more right to burn candles in your windows .
who are you that dare to come here to insult a law-abiding man ? "
" we are the people of england ! " cried young master ovington , the son of the tory squire .
" you ! you horse-racing , cock-fighting ne 'er-do-weel !
do you presume to talk for the people of england ?
they are a deep , strong , silent stream , and you are the scum , the bubbles , the poor , silly froth that floats upon the surface . "
we thought him very wicked then , but , looking back , i am not sure that we were not very wicked ourselves .
and then there were the smugglers !
the downs swarmed with them , for since there might be no lawful trade betwixt france and england , it had all to run in that channel .
i have been up on st. john 's common upon a dark night , and , lying among the bracken , i have seen as many as seventy mules and a man at the head of each go flitting past me as silently as trout in a stream .
not one of them but bore its two ankers of the right french cognac , or its bale of silk of lyons and lace of valenciennes .
i knew dan scales , the head of them , and i knew tom hislop , the riding officer , and i remember the night they met .
" do you fight , dan ? " asked tom .
" yes , tom ; thou must fight for it . "
on which tom drew his pistol , and blew dan 's brains out .
" it was a sad thing to do , " he said afterwards , " but i knew dan was too good a man for me , for we tried it out before . "
it was tom who paid a poet from brighton to write the lines for the tombstone , which we all thought were very true and good , beginning - " alas ! swift flew the fatal lead which pierced through the young man 's head .
he instantly fell , resigned his breath , and closed his languid eyes in death . " there was more of it , and i dare say it is all still to be read in patcham churchyard .
one day , about the time of our cliffe royal adventure , i was seated in the cottage looking round at the curios which my father had fastened on to the walls , and wishing , like the lazy lad that i was , that mr. lilly had died before ever he wrote his latin grammar , when my mother , who was sitting knitting in the window , gave a little cry of surprise .
" good gracious ! " she cried . " what a vulgar-looking woman ! "
it was so rare to hear my mother say a hard word against anybody ( unless it were general buonaparte ) that i was across the room and at the window in a jump .
a pony-chaise was coming slowly down the village street , and in it was the queerest-looking person that i had ever seen .
she was very stout , with a face that was of so dark a red that it shaded away into purple over the nose and cheeks .
she wore a great hat with a white curling ostrich feather , and from under its brim her two bold , black eyes stared out with a look of anger and defiance as if to tell the folk that she thought less of them than they could do of her .
she had some sort of scarlet pelisse with white swans-down about her neck , and she held the reins slack in her hands , while the pony wandered from side to side of the road as the fancy took him .
each time the chaise swayed , her head with the great hat swayed also , so that sometimes we saw the crown of it and sometimes the brim .
" what a dreadful sight ! " cried my mother .
" what is amiss with her , mother ? "
" heaven forgive me if i misjudge her , rodney , but i think that the unfortunate woman has been drinking . "
" why , " i cried , " she has pulled the chaise up at the smithy .
i 'll find out all the news for you ; " and , catching up my cap , away i scampered .
champion harrison had been shoeing a horse at the forge door , and when i got into the street i could see him with the creature 's hoof still under his arm , and the rasp in his hand , kneeling down amid the white parings .
the woman was beckoning him from the chaise , and he staring up at her with the queerest expression upon his face .
presently he threw down his rasp and went across to her , standing by the wheel and shaking his head as he talked to her .
for my part , i slipped into the smithy , where boy jim was finishing the shoe , and i watched the neatness of his work and the deft way in which he turned up the caulkens .
when he had done with it he carried it out , and there was the strange woman still talking with his uncle .
" is that he ? " i heard her ask .
champion harrison nodded .
she looked at jim , and i never saw such eyes in a human head , so large , and black , and wonderful .
boy as i was , i knew that , in spite of that bloated face , this woman had once been very beautiful .
she put out a hand , with all the fingers going as if she were playing on the harpsichord , and she touched jim on the shoulder .
" i hope--i hope you 're well , " she stammered .
" very well , ma 'am , " said jim , staring from her to his uncle .
" and happy too ? "
" yes , ma 'am , i thank you . "
" nothing that you crave for ? "
" why , no , ma 'am , i have all that i lack . "
" that will do , jim , " said his uncle , in a stern voice .
" blow up the forge again , for that shoe wants reheating . "
but it seemed as if the woman had something else that she would say , for she was angry that he should be sent away .
her eyes gleamed , and her head tossed , while the smith with his two big hands outspread seemed to be soothing her as best he could .
for a long time they whispered until at last she appeared to be satisfied .
" to-morrow , then ? " she cried loud out .
" to-morrow , " he answered .
" you keep your word and i 'll keep mine , " said she , and dropped the lash on the pony 's back .
the smith stood with the rasp in his hand , looking after her until she was just a little red spot on the white road .
then he turned , and i never saw his face so grave .
" jim , " said he , " that 's miss hinton , who has come to live at the maples , out anstey cross way .
she 's taken a kind of a fancy to you , jim , and maybe she can help you on a bit .
i promised her that you would go over and see her to-morrow . "
" i don 't want her help , uncle , and i don 't want to see her . "
" but i 've promised , jim , and you wouldn 't make me out a liar .
she does but want to talk with you , for it is a lonely life she leads . "
" what would she want to talk with such as me about ? "
" why , i cannot say that , but she seemed very set upon it , and women have their fancies .
there 's young master stone here who wouldn 't refuse to go and see a good lady , i 'll warrant , if he thought he might better his fortune by doing so . "
" well , uncle , i 'll go if roddy stone will go with me , " said jim .
" of course he 'll go . won 't you , master rodney ? "
so it ended in my saying " yes , " and back i went with all my news to my mother , who dearly loved a little bit of gossip .
she shook her head when she heard where i was going , but she did not say nay , and so it was settled .
it was a good four miles of a walk , but when we reached it you would not wish to see a more cosy little house : all honeysuckle and creepers , with a wooden porch and lattice windows .
a common-looking woman opened the door for us . " miss hinton cannot see you , " said she .
" but she asked us to come , " said jim .
" i can 't help that , " cried the woman , in a rude voice .
" i tell you that she can 't see you . "
we stood irresolute for a minute .
" maybe you would just tell her i am here , " said jim , at last .
" tell her ! how am i to tell her when she couldn 't so much as hear a pistol in her ears ?
try and tell her yourself , if you have a mind to . "
she threw open a door as she spoke , and there , in a reclining chair at the further end of the room , we caught a glimpse of a figure all lumped together , huge and shapeless , with tails of black hair hanging down . the sound of dreadful , swine-like breathing fell upon our ears .
it was but a glance , and then we were off hot-foot for home . as for me , i was so young that i was not sure whether this was funny or terrible ; but when i looked at jim to see how he took it , he was looking quite white and ill .
" you 'll not tell any one , roddy , " said he .
" not unless it 's my mother . "
" i won 't even tell my uncle .
i 'll say she was ill , the poor lady ! it 's enough that we should have seen her in her shame , without its being the gossip of the village .
it makes me feel sick and heavy at heart . "
" she was so yesterday , jim . " " was she ?
i never marked it .
but i know that she has kind eyes and a kind heart , for i saw the one in the other when she looked at me .
maybe it 's the want of a friend that has driven her to this . "
it blighted his spirits for days , and when it had all gone from my mind it was brought back to me by his manner .
but it was not to be our last memory of the lady with the scarlet pelisse , for before the week was out jim came round to ask me if i would again go up with him .
" my uncle has had a letter , " said he .
" she would speak with me , and i would be easier if you came with me , rod . "
for me it was only a pleasure outing , but i could see , as we drew near the house , that jim was troubling in his mind lest we should find that things were amiss .
his fears were soon set at rest , however , for we had scarce clicked the garden gate before the woman was out of the door of the cottage and running down the path to meet us .
she was so strange a figure , with some sort of purple wrapper on , and her big , flushed face smiling out of it , that i might , if i had been alone , have taken to my heels at the sight of her .
even jim stopped for a moment as if he were not very sure of himself , but her hearty ways soon set us at our ease .
" it is indeed good of you to come and see an old , lonely woman , " said she , " and i owe you an apology that i should give you a fruitless journey on tuesday , but in a sense you were yourselves the cause of it , since the thought of your coming had excited me , and any excitement throws me into a nervous fever .
my poor nerves !
you can see for yourselves how they serve me . "
she held out her twitching hands as she spoke .
then she passed one of them through jim 's arm , and walked with him up the path .
" you must let me know you , and know you well , " said she .
" your uncle and aunt are quite old acquaintances of mine , and though you cannot remember me , i have held you in my arms when you were an infant .
tell me , little man , " she added , turning to me , " what do you call your friend ? "
" boy jim , ma 'am , " said i .
" then if you will not think me forward , i will call you boy jim also .
we elderly people have our privileges , you know .
and now you shall come in with me , and we will take a dish of tea together . "
she led the way into a cosy room--the same which we had caught a glimpse of when last we came--and there , in the middle , was a table with white napery , and shining glass , and gleaming china , and red- cheeked apples piled upon a centre-dish , and a great plateful of smoking muffins which the cross-faced maid had just carried in .
you can think that we did justice to all the good things , and miss hinton would ever keep pressing us to pass our cup and to fill our plate .
twice during our meal she rose from her chair and withdrew into a cupboard at the end of the room , and each time i saw jim 's face cloud , for we heard a gentle clink of glass against glass .
" come now , little man , " said she to me , when the table had been cleared . " why are you looking round so much ? "
" because there are so many pretty things upon the walls . "
" and which do you think the prettiest of them ? "
" why , that ! " said i , pointing to a picture which hung opposite to me .
it was of a tall and slender girl , with the rosiest cheeks and the tenderest eyes--so daintily dressed , too , that i had never seen anything more perfect .
she had a posy of flowers in her hand and another one was lying upon the planks of wood upon which she was standing .
" oh , that 's the prettiest , is it ? " said she , laughing .
" well , now , walk up to it , and let us hear what is writ beneath it . "
i did as she asked , and read out : " miss polly hinton , as ' peggy , ' in the country wife , played for her benefit at the haymarket theatre , september 14th , 1782 . "
" it 's a play-actress , " said i .
" oh , you rude little boy , to say it in such a tone , " said she ; " as if a play-actress wasn 't as good as any one else .
why , ' twas but the other day that the duke of clarence , who may come to call himself king of england , married mrs. jordan , who is herself only a play-actress .
and whom think you that this one is ? "
she stood under the picture with her arms folded across her great body , and her big black eyes looking from one to the other of us .
" why , where are your eyes ? " she cried at last . " _ i _ was miss polly hinton of the haymarket theatre .
and perhaps you never heard the name before ? "
we were compelled to confess that we never had .
and the very name of play-actress had filled us both with a kind of vague horror , like the country-bred folk that we were .
to us they were a class apart , to be hinted at rather than named , with the wrath of the almighty hanging over them like a thundercloud .
indeed , his judgments seemed to be in visible operation before us when we looked upon what this woman was , and what she had been .
" well , " said she , laughing like one who is hurt , " you have no cause to say anything , for i read on your face what you have been taught to think of me .
so this is the upbringing that you have had , jim-- to think evil of that which you do not understand !
i wish you had been in the theatre that very night with prince florizel and four dukes in the boxes , and all the wits and macaronis of london rising at me in the pit .
if lord avon had not given me a cast in his carriage , i had never got my flowers back to my lodgings in york street , westminster .
and now two little country lads are sitting in judgment upon me ! "
jim 's pride brought a flush on to his cheeks , for he did not like to be called a country lad , or to have it supposed that he was so far behind the grand folk in london .
" i have never been inside a play-house , " said he ; " i know nothing of them . "
" nor i either . "
" well , " said she , " i am not in voice , and it is ill to play in a little room with but two to listen , but you must conceive me to be the queen of the peruvians , who is exhorting her countrymen to rise up against the spaniards , who are oppressing them . "
and straightway that coarse , swollen woman became a queen--the grandest , haughtiest queen that you could dream of--and she turned upon us with such words of fire , such lightning eyes and sweeping of her white hand , that she held us spellbound in our chairs .
her voice was soft and sweet , and persuasive at the first , but louder it rang and louder as it spoke of wrongs and freedom and the joys of death in a good cause , until it thrilled into my every nerve , and i asked nothing more than to run out of the cottage and to die then and there in the cause of my country .
and then in an instant she changed .
she was a poor woman now , who had lost her only child , and who was bewailing it .
her voice was full of tears , and what she said was so simple , so true , that we both seemed to see the dead babe stretched there on the carpet before us , and we could have joined in with words of pity and of grief .
and then , before our cheeks were dry , she was back into her old self again .
" how like you that , then ? " she cried .
" that was my way in the days when sally siddons would turn green at the name of polly hinton .
it 's a fine play , is pizarro . "
" and who wrote it , ma 'am ? "
" who wrote it ?
i never heard .
what matter who did the writing of it !
but there are some great lines for one who knows how they should be spoken . "
" and you play no longer , ma 'am ? "
" no , jim , i left the boards when--when i was weary of them .
but my heart goes back to them sometimes .
it seems to me there is no smell like that of the hot oil in the footlights and of the oranges in the pit .
but you are sad , jim . "
" it was but the thought of that poor woman and her child . "
" tut , never think about her !
i will soon wipe her from your mind .
this is ' miss priscilla tomboy , ' from the romp .
you must conceive that the mother is speaking , and that the forward young minx is answering .
and she began a scene between the two of them , so exact in voice and manner that it seemed to us as if there were really two folk before us : the stern old mother with her hand up like an ear-trumpet , and her flouncing , bouncing daughter .
her great figure danced about with a wonderful lightness , and she tossed her head and pouted her lips as she answered back to the old , bent figure that addressed her .
jim and i had forgotten our tears , and were holding our ribs before she came to the end of it .
" that is better , " said she , smiling at our laughter .
" i would not have you go back to friar 's oak with long faces , or maybe they would not let you come to me again . "
she vanished into her cupboard , and came out with a bottle and glass , which she placed upon the table .
" you are too young for strong waters , " she said , " but this talking gives one a dryness , and-- "
then it was that boy jim did a wonderful thing .
he rose from his chair , and he laid his hand upon the bottle .
" don 't ! " said he .
she looked him in the face , and i can still see those black eyes of hers softening before the gaze .
" am i to have none ? "
" please , don 't . "
with a quick movement she wrested the bottle out of his hand and raised it up so that for a moment it entered my head that she was about to drink it off .
then she flung it through the open lattice , and we heard the crash of it on the path outside .
" there , jim ! " said she ; " does that satisfy you ?
it 's long since any one cared whether i drank or no . "
" you are too good and kind for that , " said he .
" good ! " she cried . " well , i love that you should think me so .
and it would make you happier if i kept from the brandy , jim ?
well , then , i 'll make you a promise , if you 'll make me one in return . "
" what 's that , miss ? "
" no drop shall pass my lips , jim , if you will swear , wet or shine , blow or snow , to come up here twice in every week , that i may see you and speak with you , for , indeed , there are times when i am very lonesome . "
so the promise was made , and very faithfully did jim keep it , for many a time when i have wanted him to go fishing or rabbit-snaring , he has remembered that it was his day for miss hinton , and has tramped off to anstey cross .
at first i think that she found her share of the bargain hard to keep , and i have seen jim come back with a black face on him , as if things were going amiss .
but after a time the fight was won--as all fights are won if one does but fight long enough--and in the year before my father came back miss hinton had become another woman .
and it was not her ways only , but herself as well , for from being the person that i have described , she became in one twelve-month as fine a looking lady as there was in the whole country-side .
jim was prouder of it by far than of anything he had had a hand in in his life , but it was only to me that he ever spoke about it , for he had that tenderness towards her that one has for those whom one has helped .
and she helped him also , for by her talk of the world and of what she had seen , she took his mind away from the sussex country-side and prepared it for a broader life beyond .
so matters stood between them at the time when peace was made and my father came home from the sea .
chapter iv--the peace of amiens
many a woman 's knee was on the ground , and many a woman 's soul spent itself in joy and thankfulness when the news came with the fall of the leaf in 1801 that the preliminaries of peace had been settled .
all england waved her gladness by day and twinkled it by night .
even in little friar 's oak we had our flags flying bravely , and a candle in every window , with a big g.r. guttering in the wind over the door of the inn .
folk were weary of the war , for we had been at it for eight years , taking holland , and spain , and france each in turn and all together .
all that we had learned during that time was that our little army was no match for the french on land , and that our large navy was more than a match for them upon the water .
we had gained some credit , which we were sorely in need of after the american business ; and a few colonies , which were welcome also for the same reason ; but our debt had gone on rising and our consols sinking , until even pitt stood aghast .
still , if we had known that there never could be peace between napoleon and ourselves , and that this was only the end of a round and not of the battle , we should have been better advised had we fought it out without a break .
as it was , the french got back the twenty thousand good seamen whom we had captured , and a fine dance they led us with their boulogne flotillas and fleets of invasion before we were able to catch them again .
my father , as i remember him best , was a tough , strong little man , of no great breadth , but solid and well put together .
his face was burned of a reddish colour , as bright as a flower-pot , and in spite of his age ( for he was only forty at the time of which i speak ) it was shot with lines , which deepened if he were in any way perturbed , so that i have seen him turn on the instant from a youngish man to an elderly .
his eyes especially were meshed round with wrinkles , as is natural for one who had puckered them all his life in facing foul wind and bitter weather .
these eyes were , perhaps , his strangest feature , for they were of a very clear and beautiful blue , which shone the brighter out of that ruddy setting .
by nature he must have been a fair-skinned man , for his upper brow , where his cap came over it , was as white as mine , and his close-cropped hair was tawny .
he had served , as he was proud to say , in the last of our ships which had been chased out of the mediterranean in ' 97 , and in the first which had re-entered it in ' 98 .
he was under miller , as third lieutenant of the theseus , when our fleet , like a pack of eager fox hounds in a covert , was dashing from sicily to syria and back again to naples , trying to pick up the lost scent .
with the same good fighting man he served at the nile , where the men of his command sponged and rammed and trained until , when the last tricolour had come down , they hove up the sheet anchor and fell dead asleep upon the top of each other under the capstan bars .
then , as a second lieutenant , he was in one of those grim three-deckers with powder- blackened hulls and crimson scupper-holes , their spare cables tied round their keels and over their bulwarks to hold them together , which carried the news into the bay of naples .
from thence , as a reward for his services , he was transferred as first lieutenant to the aurora frigate , engaged in cutting off supplies from genoa , and in her he still remained until long after peace was declared .
how well i can remember his home-coming !
though it is now eight- and-forty years ago , it is clearer to me than the doings of last week , for the memory of an old man is like one of those glasses which shows out what is at a distance and blurs all that is near .
my mother had been in a tremble ever since the first rumour of the preliminaries came to our ears , for she knew that he might come as soon as his message .
she said little , but she saddened my life by insisting that i should be for ever clean and tidy .
with every rumble of wheels , too , her eyes would glance towards the door , and her hands steal up to smooth her pretty black hair .
she had embroidered a white " welcome " upon a blue ground , with an anchor in red upon each side , and a border of laurel leaves ; and this was to hang upon the two lilac bushes which flanked the cottage door .
he could not have left the mediterranean before we had this finished , and every morning she looked to see if it were in its place and ready to be hanged .
but it was a weary time before the peace was ratified , and it was april of next year before our great day came round to us .
it had been raining all morning , i remember--a soft spring rain , which sent up a rich smell from the brown earth and pattered pleasantly upon the budding chestnuts behind our cottage .
the sun had shone out in the evening , and i had come down with my fishing-rod ( for i had promised boy jim to go with him to the mill-stream ) , when what should i see but a post-chaise with two smoking horses at the gate , and there in the open door of it were my mother 's black skirt and her little feet jutting out , with two blue arms for a waist-belt , and all the rest of her buried in the chaise .
away i ran for the motto , and i pinned it up on the bushes as we had agreed , but when i had finished there were the skirts and the feet and the blue arms just the same as before .
" here 's rod , " said my mother at last , struggling down on to the ground again .
" roddy , darling , here 's your father ! "
i saw the red face and the kindly , light-blue eyes looking out at me .
" why , roddy , lad , you were but a child and we kissed good-bye when last we met ; but i suppose we must put you on a different rating now .
i 'm right glad from my heart to see you , dear lad ; and as to you , sweetheart-- "
the blue arms flew out , and there were the skirt and the two feet fixed in the door again .
" here are the folk coming , anson , " said my mother , blushing .
" won 't you get out and come in with us ? "
and then suddenly it came home to us both that for all his cheery face he had never moved more than his arms , and that his leg was resting on the opposite seat of the chaise .
" oh , anson , anson ! " she cried .
" tut , ' tis but the bone of my leg , " said he , taking his knee between his hands and lifting it round .
" i got it broke in the bay , but the surgeon has fished it and spliced it , though it 's a bit crank yet .
why , bless her kindly heart , if i haven 't turned her from pink to white .
you can see for yourself that it 's nothing . "
he sprang out as he spoke , and with one leg and a staff he hopped swiftly up the path , and under the laurel-bordered motto , and so over his own threshold for the first time for five years .
when the post-boy and i had carried up the sea-chest and the two canvas bags , there he was sitting in his armchair by the window in his old weather-stained blue coat .
my mother was weeping over his poor leg , and he patting her hair with one brown hand .
his other he threw round my waist , and drew me to the side of his chair .
" now that we have peace , i can lie up and refit until king george needs me again , " said he .
" ' twas a carronade that came adrift in the bay when it was blowing a top-gallant breeze with a beam sea .
ere we could make it fast it had me jammed against the mast .
well , well , " he added , looking round at the walls of the room , " here are all my old curios , the same as ever : the narwhal 's horn from the arctic , and the blowfish from the moluccas , and the paddles from fiji , and the picture of the ca ira with lord hotham in chase .
and here you are , mary , and you also , roddy , and good luck to the carronade which has sent me into so snug a harbour without fear of sailing orders . "
my mother had his long pipe and his tobacco all ready for him , so that he was able now to light it and to sit looking from one of us to the other and then back again , as if he could never see enough of us .
young as i was , i could still understand that this was the moment which he had thought of during many a lonely watch , and that the expectation of it had cheered his heart in many a dark hour .
sometimes he would touch one of us with his hand , and sometimes the other , and so he sat , with his soul too satiated for words , whilst the shadows gathered in the little room and the lights of the inn windows glimmered through the gloom .
and then , after my mother had lit our own lamp , she slipped suddenly down upon her knees , and he got one knee to the ground also , so that , hand-in-hand , they joined their thanks to heaven for manifold mercies .
when i look back at my parents as they were in those days , it is at that very moment that i can picture them most clearly : her sweet face with the wet shining upon her cheeks , and his blue eyes upturned to the smoke-blackened ceiling .
i remember that he swayed his reeking pipe in the earnestness of his prayer , so that i was half tears and half smiles as i watched him .
" roddy , lad , " said he , after supper was over , " you 're getting a man now , and i suppose you will go afloat like the rest of us .
you 're old enough to strap a dirk to your thigh . "
" and leave me without a child as well as without a husband ! " cried my mother .
" well , there 's time enough yet , " said he , " for they are more inclined to empty berths than to fill them , now that peace has come .
but i 've never tried what all this schooling has done for you , rodney .
you have had a great deal more than ever i had , but i dare say i can make shift to test it .
have you learned history ? "
" yes , father , " said i , with some confidence .
" then how many sail of the line were at the battle of camperdown ? "
he shook his head gravely when he found that i could not answer him .
" why , there are men in the fleet who never had any schooling at all who could tell you that we had seven 74 's , seven 64 's , and two 50- gun ships in the action .
there 's a picture on the wall of the chase of the ca ira .
which were the ships that laid her aboard ? "
again i had to confess that he had beaten me .
" well , your dad can teach you something in history yet , " he cried , looking in triumph at my mother .
" have you learned geography ? "
" yes , father , " said i , though with less confidence than before .
" well , how far is it from port mahon to algeciras ? "
i could only shake my head .
" if ushant lay three leagues upon your starboard quarter , what would be your nearest english port ? "
again i had to give it up .
" well , i don 't see that your geography is much better than your history , " said he .
" you 'd never get your certificate at this rate .
can you do addition ?
well , then , let us see if you can tot up my prize-money . "
he shot a mischievous glance at my mother as he spoke , and she laid down her knitting on her lap and looked very earnestly at him .
" you never asked me about that , mary , " said he .
" the mediterranean is not the station for it , anson .
i have heard you say that it is the atlantic for prize-money , and the mediterranean for honour . "
" i had a share of both last cruise , which comes from changing a line-of-battleship for a frigate .
now , rodney , there are two pounds in every hundred due to me when the prize-courts have done with them .
when we were watching massena , off genoa , we got a matter of seventy schooners , brigs , and tartans , with wine , food , and powder .
lord keith will want his finger in the pie , but that 's for the courts to settle .
put them at four pounds apiece to me , and what will the seventy bring ? "
" two hundred and eighty pounds , " i answered .
" why , anson , it is a fortune ! " cried my mother , clapping her hands .
" try you again , roddy ! " said he , shaking his pipe at me .
" there was the xebec frigate out of barcelona with twenty thousand spanish dollars aboard , which make four thousand of our pounds .
her hull should be worth another thousand . what 's my share of that ? "
" a hundred pounds . "
" why , the purser couldn 't work it out quicker , " he cried in his delight .
" here 's for you again !
we passed the straits and worked up to the azores , where we fell in with the la sabina from the mauritius with sugar and spices .
twelve hundred pounds she 's worth to me , mary , my darling , and never again shall you soil your pretty fingers or pinch upon my beggarly pay .
my dear mother had borne her long struggle without a sign all these years , but now that she was so suddenly eased of it she fell sobbing upon his neck .
it was a long time before my father had a thought to spare upon my examination in arithmetic .
" it 's all in your lap , mary , " said he , dashing his own hand across his eyes .
" by george , lass , when this leg of mine is sound we 'll bear down for a spell to brighton , and if there is a smarter frock than yours upon the steyne , may i never tread a poop again .
but how is it that you are so quick at figures , rodney , when you know nothing of history or geography ? "
i tried to explain that addition was the same upon sea or land , but that history and geography were not .
" well , " he concluded , " you need figures to take a reckoning , and you need nothing else save what your mother wit will teach you .
there never was one of our breed who did not take to salt water like a young gull .
lord nelson has promised me a vacancy for you , and he 'll be as good as his word . "
so it was that my father came home to us , and a better or kinder no lad could wish for .
though my parents had been married so long , they had really seen very little of each other , and their affection was as warm and as fresh as if they were two newly-wedded lovers .
i have learned since that sailors can be coarse and foul , but never did i know it from my father ; for , although he had seen as much rough work as the wildest could wish for , he was always the same patient , good-humoured man , with a smile and a jolly word for all the village .
he could suit himself to his company , too , for on the one hand he could take his wine with the vicar , or with sir james ovington , the squire of the parish ; while on the other he would sit by the hour amongst my humble friends down in the smithy , with champion harrison , boy jim , and the rest of them , telling them such stories of nelson and his men that i have seen the champion knot his great hands together , while jim 's eyes have smouldered like the forge embers as he listened .
my father had been placed on half-pay , like so many others of the old war officers , and so , for nearly two years , he was able to remain with us .
during all this time i can only once remember that there was the slightest disagreement between him and my mother .
it chanced that i was the cause of it , and as great events sprang out of it , i must tell you how it came about .
it was indeed the first of a series of events which affected not only my fortunes , but those of very much more important people .
the spring of 1803 was an early one , and the middle of april saw the leaves thick upon the chestnut trees .
one evening we were all seated together over a dish of tea when we heard the scrunch of steps outside our door , and there was the postman with a letter in his hand .
" i think it is for me , " said my mother , and sure enough it was addressed in the most beautiful writing to mrs. mary stone , of friar 's oak , and there was a red seal the size of a half-crown upon the outside of it with a flying dragon in the middle .
" whom think you that it is from , anson ? " she asked .
" i had hoped that it was from lord nelson , " answered my father .
" it is time the boy had his commission .
but if it be for you , then it cannot be from any one of much importance . "
" can it not ! " she cried , pretending to be offended .
" you will ask my pardon for that speech , sir , for it is from no less a person than sir charles tregellis , my own brother . "
my mother seemed to speak with a hushed voice when she mentioned this wonderful brother of hers , and always had done as long as i can remember , so that i had learned also to have a subdued and reverent feeling when i heard his name .
and indeed it was no wonder , for that name was never mentioned unless it were in connection with something brilliant and extraordinary .
once we heard that he was at windsor with the king . often he was at brighton with the prince .
sometimes it was as a sportsman that his reputation reached us , as when his meteor beat the duke of queensberry 's egham , at newmarket , or when he brought jim belcher up from bristol , and sprang him upon the london fancy .
but usually it was as the friend of the great , the arbiter of fashions , the king of bucks , and the best-dressed man in town that his reputation reached us .
my father , however , did not appear to be elated at my mother 's triumphant rejoinder .
" ay , and what does he want ? " asked he , in no very amiable voice .
" i wrote to him , anson , and told him that rodney was growing a man now , thinking , since he had no wife or child of his own , he might be disposed to advance him . "
" we can do very well without him , " growled my father .
" he sheered off from us when the weather was foul , and we have no need of him now that the sun is shining . "
" nay , you misjudge him , anson , " said my mother , warmly .
" there is no one with a better heart than charles ; but his own life moves so smoothly that he cannot understand that others may have trouble .
during all these years i have known that i had but to say the word to receive as much as i wished from him . "
" thank god that you never had to stoop to it , mary .
i want none of his help . "
" but we must think of rodney . "
" rodney has enough for his sea-chest and kit .
he needs no more . "
" but charles has great power and influence in london .
he could make rodney known to all the great people .
surely you would not stand in the way of his advancement . "
" let us hear what he says , then , " said my father ; and this was the letter which she read to him -
14 , jermyn street , st. james 's , " april 15th , 1803 .
" my dear sister mary ,
" in answer to your letter , i can assure you that you must not conceive me to be wanting in those finer feelings which are the chief adornment of humanity .
it is true that for some years , absorbed as i have been in affairs of the highest importance , i have seldom taken a pen in hand , for which i can assure you that i have been reproached by many des plus charmantes of your charming sex .
at the present moment i lie abed ( having stayed late in order to pay a compliment to the marchioness of dover at her ball last night ) , and this is writ to my dictation by ambrose , my clever rascal of a valet .
i am interested to hear of my nephew rodney ( mon dieu , quel nom ! ) , and as i shall be on my way to visit the prince at brighton next week , i shall break my journey at friar 's oak for the sake of seeing both you and him .
make my compliments to your husband .
" i am ever , my dear sister mary , " your brother , " charles tregellis . "
" what do you think of that ? " cried my mother in triumph when she had finished .
" i think it is the letter of a fop , " said my father , bluntly .
" you are too hard on him , anson .
you will think better of him when you know him .
but he says that he will be here next week , and this is thursday , and the best curtains unhung , and no lavender in the sheets ! "
away she bustled , half distracted , while my father sat moody , with his chin upon his hands , and i remained lost in wonder at the thought of this grand new relative from london , and of all that his coming might mean to us .
chapter v--buck tregellis
now that i was in my seventeenth year , and had already some need for a razor , i had begun to weary of the narrow life of the village , and to long to see something of the great world beyond .
the craving was all the stronger because i durst not speak openly about it , for the least hint of it brought the tears into my mother 's eyes .
but now there was the less reason that i should stay at home , since my father was at her side , and so my mind was all filled by this prospect of my uncle 's visit , and of the chance that he might set my feet moving at last upon the road of life .
as you may think , it was towards my father 's profession that my thoughts and my hopes turned , for from my childhood i have never seen the heave of the sea or tasted the salt upon my lips without feeling the blood of five generations of seamen thrill within my veins .
and think of the challenge which was ever waving in those days before the eyes of a coast-living lad !
i had but to walk up to wolstonbury in the war time to see the sails of the french chasse- marees and privateers .
again and again i have heard the roar of the guns coming from far out over the waters .
seamen would tell us how they had left london and been engaged ere nightfall , or sailed out of portsmouth and been yard-arm to yard-arm before they had lost sight of st. helen 's light .
it was this imminence of the danger which warmed our hearts to our sailors , and made us talk , round the winter fires , of our little nelson , and cuddie collingwood , and johnnie jarvis , and the rest of them , not as being great high admirals with titles and dignities , but as good friends whom we loved and honoured above all others .
what boy was there through the length and breadth of britain who did not long to be out with them under the red-cross flag ?
but now that peace had come , and the fleets which had swept the channel and the mediterranean were lying dismantled in our harbours , there was less to draw one 's fancy seawards .
it was london now of which i thought by day and brooded by night : the huge city , the home of the wise and the great , from which came this constant stream of carriages , and those crowds of dusty people who were for ever flashing past our window-pane .
it was this one side of life which first presented itself to me , and so , as a boy , i used to picture the city as a gigantic stable with a huge huddle of coaches , which were for ever streaming off down the country roads .
but , then , champion harrison told me how the fighting-men lived there , and my father how the heads of the navy lived there , and my mother how her brother and his grand friends were there , until at last i was consumed with impatience to see this marvellous heart of england .
this coming of my uncle , then , was the breaking of light through the darkness , though i hardly dared to hope that he would take me with him into those high circles in which he lived .
my mother , however , had such confidence either in his good nature or in her own powers of persuasion , that she already began to make furtive preparations for my departure .
but if the narrowness of the village life chafed my easy spirit , it was a torture to the keen and ardent mind of boy jim .
it was but a few days after the coming of my uncle 's letter that we walked over the downs together , and i had a peep of the bitterness of his heart .
" what is there for me to do , rodney ? " he cried .
" i forge a shoe , and i fuller it , and i clip it , and i caulken it , and i knock five holes in it , and there it is finished .
then i do it again and again , and blow up the bellows and feed the forge , and rasp a hoof or two , and there is a day 's work done , and every day the same as the other .
was it for this only , do you think , that i was born into the world ? "
i looked at him , his proud , eagle face , and his tall , sinewy figure , and i wondered whether in the whole land there was a finer , handsomer man .
" the army or the navy is the place for you , jim , " said i .
" that is very well , " he cried .
" if you go into the navy , as you are likely to do , you go as an officer , and it is you who do the ordering .
if i go in , it is as one who was born to receive orders . "
" an officer gets his orders from those above him . "
" but an officer does not have the lash hung over his head .
i saw a poor fellow at the inn here--it was some years ago--who showed us his back in the tap-room , all cut into red diamonds with the boat- swain 's whip .
'who ordered that ? ' i asked .
'the captain , ' said he .
'and what would you have had if you had struck him dead ? ' said i .
'the yard-arm , ' he answered .
'then if i had been you that 's where i should have been , ' said i , and i spoke the truth .
i can 't help it , rod !
there 's something here in my heart , something that is as much a part of myself as this hand is , which holds me to it . "
" i know that you are as proud as lucifer , " said i .
" it was born with me , roddy , and i can 't help it .
life would be easier if i could .
i was made to be my own master , and there 's only one place where i can hope to be so . "
" where is that , jim ? "
" in london .
miss hinton has told me of it , until i feel as if i could find my way through it from end to end .
she loves to talk of it as well as i do to listen .
i have it all laid out in my mind , and i can see where the playhouses are , and how the river runs , and where the king 's house is , and the prince 's , and the place where the fighting-men live .
i could make my name known in london . "
" how ? "
" never mind how , rod .
i could do it , and i will do it , too .
'wait ! ' says my uncle-- ' wait , and it will all come right for you . '
that is what he always says , and my aunt the same .
why should i wait ?
what am i to wait for ?
no , roddy , i 'll stay no longer eating my heart out in this little village , but i 'll leave my apron behind me and i 'll seek my fortune in london , and when i come back to friar 's oak , it will be in such style as that gentleman yonder . "
he pointed as he spoke , and there was a high crimson curricle coming down the london road , with two bay mares harnessed tandem fashion before it .
the reins and fittings were of a light fawn colour , and the gentleman had a driving-coat to match , with a servant in dark livery behind .
they flashed past us in a rolling cloud of dust , and i had just a glimpse of the pale , handsome face of the master , and of the dark , shrivelled features of the man .
i should never have given them another thought had it not chanced that when the village came into view there was the curricle again , standing at the door of the inn , and the grooms busy taking out the horses .
" jim , " i cried , " i believe it is my uncle ! " and taking to my heels i ran for home at the top of my speed .
at the door was standing the dark-faced servant .
he carried a cushion , upon which lay a small and fluffy lapdog .
" you will excuse me , young sir , " said he , in the suavest , most soothing of voices , " but am i right in supposing that this is the house of lieutenant stone ?
in that case you will , perhaps , do me the favour to hand to mrs. stone this note which her brother , sir charles tregellis , has just committed to my care . "
i was quite abashed by the man 's flowery way of talking--so unlike anything which i had ever heard .
he had a wizened face , and sharp little dark eyes , which took in me and the house and my mother 's startled face at the window all in the instant .
my parents were together , the two of them , in the sitting-room , and my mother read the note to us .
" my dear mary , " it ran , " i have stopped at the inn , because i am somewhat ravage by the dust of your sussex roads .
a lavender-water bath may restore me to a condition in which i may fitly pay my compliments to a lady .
meantime , i send you fidelio as a hostage .
pray give him a half-pint of warmish milk with six drops of pure brandy in it .
a better or more faithful creature never lived . toujours a toi.--charles. "
" have him in !
have him in ! " cried my father , heartily , running to the door .
" come in , mr. fidelio .
every man to his own taste , and six drops to the half-pint seems a sinful watering of grog--but if you like it so , you shall have it . "
a smile flickered over the dark face of the servant , but his features reset themselves instantly into their usual mask of respectful observance .
" you are labouring under a slight error , sir , if you will permit me to say so .
my name is ambrose , and i have the honour to be the valet of sir charles tregellis .
this is fidelio upon the cushion . "
" tut , the dog ! " cried my father , in disgust .
" heave him down by the fireside .
why should he have brandy , when many a christian has to go without ? "
" hush , anson ! " said my mother , taking the cushion .
" you will tell sir charles that his wishes shall be carried out , and that we shall expect him at his own convenience . "
the man went off noiselessly and swiftly , but was back in a few minutes with a flat brown basket .
" it is the refection , madam , " said he .
" will you permit me to lay the table ?
sir charles is accustomed to partake of certain dishes and to drink certain wines , so that we usually bring them with us when we visit . "
he opened the basket , and in a minute he had the table all shining with silver and glass , and studded with dainty dishes .
so quick and neat and silent was he in all he did , that my father was as taken with him as i was .
" you 'd have made a right good foretopman if your heart is as stout as your fingers are quick , " said he .
" did you never wish to have the honour of serving your country ? "
" it is my honour , sir , to serve sir charles tregellis , and i desire no other master , " he answered .
" but i will convey his dressing-case from the inn , and then all will be ready . "
he came back with a great silver-mounted box under his arm , and close at his heels was the gentleman whose coming had made such a disturbance .
my first impression of my uncle as he entered the room was that one of his eyes was swollen to the size of an apple .
it caught the breath from my lips--that monstrous , glistening eye .
but the next instant i perceived that he held a round glass in the front of it , which magnified it in this fashion .
he looked at us each in turn , and then he bowed very gracefully to my mother and kissed her upon either cheek .
" you will permit me to compliment you , my dear mary , " said he , in a voice which was the most mellow and beautiful that i have ever heard .
" i can assure you that the country air has used you wondrous well , and that i should be proud to see my pretty sister in the mall .
i am your servant , sir , " he continued , holding out his hand to my father .
" it was but last week that i had the honour of dining with my friend , lord st. vincent , and i took occasion to mention you to him .
i may tell you that your name is not forgotten at the admiralty , sir , and i hope that i may see you soon walking the poop of a 74-gun ship of your own .
so this is my nephew , is it ? "
he put a hand upon each of my shoulders in a very friendly way and looked me up and down .
" how old are you , nephew ? " he asked .
" seventeen , sir . "
" you look older .
you look eighteen , at the least .
i find him very passable , mary--very passable , indeed .
he has not the bel air , the tournure--in our uncouth english we have no word for it . but he is as healthy as a may-hedge in bloom . "
so within a minute of his entering our door he had got himself upon terms with all of us , and with so easy and graceful a manner that it seemed as if he had known us all for years .
i had a good look at him now as he stood upon the hearthrug with my mother upon one side and my father on the other .
he was a very large man , with noble shoulders , small waist , broad hips , well-turned legs , and the smallest of hands and feet .
his face was pale and handsome , with a prominent chin , a jutting nose , and large blue staring eyes , in which a sort of dancing , mischievous light was for ever playing .
he wore a deep brown coat with a collar as high as his ears and tails as low as his knees .
his black breeches and silk stockings ended in very small pointed shoes , so highly polished that they twinkled with every movement .
his vest was of black velvet , open at the top to show an embroidered shirt-front , with a high , smooth , white cravat above it , which kept his neck for ever on the stretch .
he stood easily , with one thumb in the arm-pit , and two fingers of the other hand in his vest pocket .
it made me proud as i watched him to think that so magnificent a man , with such easy , masterful ways , should be my own blood relation , and i could see from my mother 's eyes as they turned towards him that the same thought was in her mind .
all this time ambrose had been standing like a dark-clothed , bronze- faced image by the door , with the big silver-bound box under his arm .
he stepped forward now into the room .
" shall i convey it to your bedchamber , sir charles ? " he asked .
" ah , pardon me , sister mary , " cried my uncle , " i am old-fashioned enough to have principles--an anachronism , i know , in this lax age .
one of them is never to allow my batterie de toilette out of my sight when i am travelling .
i cannot readily forget the agonies which i endured some years ago through neglecting this precaution .
i will do ambrose the justice to say that it was before he took charge of my affairs .
i was compelled to wear the same ruffles upon two consecutive days .
on the third morning my fellow was so affected by the sight of my condition , that he burst into tears and laid out a pair which he had stolen from me . "
as he spoke his face was very grave , but the light in his eyes danced and gleamed .
he handed his open snuff-box to my father , as ambrose followed my mother out of the room .
" you number yourself in an illustrious company by upping your finger and thumb into it , " said he .
" indeed , sir ! " said my father , shortly .
" you are free of my box , as being a relative by marriage .
you are free also , nephew , and i pray you to take a pinch . it is the most intimate sign of my goodwill .
outside ourselves there are four , i think , who have had access to it--the prince , of course ; mr pitt ; monsieur otto , the french ambassador ; and lord hawkesbury .
i have sometimes thought that i was premature with lord hawkesbury . "
" i am vastly honoured , sir , " said my father , looking suspiciously at his guest from under his shaggy eyebrows , for with that grave face and those twinkling eyes it was hard to know how to take him .
" a woman , sir , has her love to bestow , " said my uncle . " a man has his snuff-box . neither is to be lightly offered .
it is a lapse of taste ; nay , more , it is a breach of morals .
only the other day , as i was seated in watier 's , my box of prime macouba open upon the table beside me , an irish bishop thrust in his intrusive fingers .
'waiter , ' i cried , ' my box has been soiled !
remove it ! ' the man meant no insult , you understand , but that class of people must be kept in their proper sphere . '
" a bishop ! " cried my father . " you draw your line very high , sir . "
" yes , sir , " said my uncle ; " i wish no better epitaph upon my tombstone . "
my mother had in the meanwhile descended , and we all drew up to the table .
" you will excuse my apparent grossness , mary , in venturing to bring my own larder with me .
abernethy has me under his orders , and i must eschew your rich country dainties .
a little white wine and a cold bird--it is as much as the niggardly scotchman will allow me . "
" we should have you on blockading service when the levanters are blowing , " said my father .
" salt junk and weevilly biscuits , with a rib of a tough barbary ox when the tenders come in .
you would have your spare diet there , sir . "
straightway my uncle began to question him about the sea service , and for the whole meal my father was telling him of the nile and of the toulon blockade , and the siege of genoa , and all that he had seen and done .
but whenever he faltered for a word , my uncle always had it ready for him , and it was hard to say which knew most about the business .
" no , i read little or nothing , " said he , when my father marvelled where he got his knowledge .
" the fact is that i can hardly pick up a print without seeing some allusion to myself : ' sir c. t. does this , ' or ' sir c. t. says the other , ' so i take them no longer .
but if a man is in my position all knowledge comes to him .
the duke of york tells me of the army in the morning , and lord spencer chats with me of the navy in the afternoon , and dundas whispers me what is going forward in the cabinet , so that i have little need of the times or the morning chronicle . "
this set him talking of the great world of london , telling my father about the men who were his masters at the admiralty , and my mother about the beauties of the town , and the great ladies at almack 's , but all in the same light , fanciful way , so that one never knew whether to laugh or to take him gravely .
i think it flattered him to see the way in which we all three hung upon his words .
of some he thought highly and of some lowly , but he made no secret that the highest of all , and the one against whom all others should be measured , was sir charles tregellis himself .
" as to the king , " said he , " of course , i am l 'ami de famille there ; and even with you i can scarce speak freely , as my relations are confidential . "
" god bless him and keep him from ill ! " cried my father .
" it is pleasant to hear you say so , " said my uncle .
" one has to come into the country to hear honest loyalty , for a sneer and a gibe are more the fashions in town .
the king is grateful to me for the interest which i have ever shown in his son .
he likes to think that the prince has a man of taste in his circle . "
" and the prince ? " asked my mother . " is he well-favoured ? "
" he is a fine figure of a man .
at a distance he has been mistaken for me .
and he has some taste in dress , though he gets slovenly if i am too long away from him .
i warrant you that i find a crease in his coat to-morrow . "
we were all seated round the fire by this time , for the evening had turned chilly .
the lamp was lighted and so also was my father 's pipe .
" i suppose , " said he , " that this is your first visit to friar 's oak ? "
my uncle 's face turned suddenly very grave and stern .
" it is my first visit for many years , " said he .
" i was but one-and- twenty years of age when last i came here .
i am not likely to forget it . "
i knew that he spoke of his visit to cliffe royal at the time of the murder , and i saw by her face that my mother knew it also .
my father , however , had either never heard of it , or had forgotten the circumstance .
" was it at the inn you stayed ? " he asked .
" i stayed with the unfortunate lord avon .
it was the occasion when he was accused of slaying his younger brother and fled from the country . "
we all fell silent , and my uncle leaned his chin upon his hand , looking thoughtfully into the fire .
if i do but close my eyes now , i can see the light upon his proud , handsome face , and see also my dear father , concerned at having touched upon so terrible a memory , shooting little slanting glances at him betwixt the puffs of his pipe .
" i dare say that it has happened with you , sir , " said my uncle at last , " that you have lost some dear messmate , in battle or wreck , and that you have put him out of your mind in the routine of your daily life , until suddenly some word or some scene brings him back to your memory , and you find your sorrow as raw as upon the first day of your loss . "
my father nodded .
" so it is with me to-night .
i never formed a close friendship with a man--i say nothing of women--save only the once . that was with lord avon .
we were of an age , he a few years perhaps my senior , but our tastes , our judgments , and our characters were alike , save only that he had in him a touch of pride such as i have never known in any other man .
putting aside the little foibles of a rich young man of fashion , les indescretions d 'une jeunesse doree , i could have sworn that he was as good a man as i have ever known . "
" how came he , then , to such a crime ? " asked my father .
my uncle shook his head .
" many a time have i asked myself that question , and it comes home to me more to-night than ever . "
all the jauntiness had gone out of his manner , and he had turned suddenly into a sad and serious man .
" was it certain that he did it , charles ? " asked my mother .
my uncle shrugged his shoulders .
" i wish i could think it were not so .
i have thought sometimes that it was this very pride , turning suddenly to madness , which drove him to it .
you have heard how he returned the money which we had lost ? "
" nay , i have heard nothing of it , " my father answered .
" it is a very old story now , though we have not yet found an end to it .
we had played for two days , the four of us : lord avon , his brother captain barrington , sir lothian hume , and myself .
of the captain i knew little , save that he was not of the best repute , and was deep in the hands of the jews .
sir lothian has made an evil name for himself since-- ' tis the same sir lothian who shot lord carton in the affair at chalk farm--but in those days there was nothing against him .
the oldest of us was but twenty-four , and we gamed on , as i say , until the captain had cleared the board .
we were all hit , but our host far the hardest .
" that night--i tell you now what it would be a bitter thing for me to tell in a court of law--i was restless and sleepless , as often happens when a man has kept awake over long .
my mind would dwell upon the fall of the cards , and i was tossing and turning in my bed , when suddenly a cry fell upon my ears , and then a second louder one , coming from the direction of captain barrington 's room .
five minutes later i heard steps passing down the passage , and , without striking a light , i opened my door and peeped out , thinking that some one was taken unwell .
there was lord avon walking towards me .
in one hand he held a guttering candle and in the other a brown bag , which chinked as he moved .
his face was all drawn and distorted--so much so that my question was frozen upon my lips .
before i could utter it he turned into his chamber and softly closed the door .
" next morning i was awakened by finding him at my bedside .
" ' charles , ' said he , ' i cannot abide to think that you should have lost this money in my house .
you will find it here upon your table . '
" it was in vain that i laughed at his squeamishness , telling him that i should most certainly have claimed my money had i won , so that it would be strange indeed if i were not permitted to pay it when i lost .
" ' neither i nor my brother will touch it , ' said he .
'there it lies , and you may do what you like about it . '
" he would listen to no argument , but dashed out of the room like a madman .
but perhaps these details are familiar to you , and god knows they are painful to me to tell . "
my father was sitting with staring eyes , and his forgotten pipe reeking in his hand .
" pray let us hear the end of it , sir , " he cried .
" well , then , i had finished my toilet in an hour or so--for i was less exigeant in those days than now--and i met sir lothian hume at breakfast .
his experience had been the same as my own , and he was eager to see captain barrington ; and to ascertain why he had directed his brother to return the money to us .
we were talking the matter over when suddenly i raised my eyes to the corner of the ceiling , and i saw--i saw-- "
my uncle had turned quite pale with the vividness of the memory , and he passed his hand over his eyes .
" it was crimson , " said he , with a shudder-- " crimson with black cracks , and from every crack--but i will give you dreams , sister mary .
suffice it that we rushed up the stair which led direct to the captain 's room , and there we found him lying with the bone gleaming white through his throat .
a hunting-knife lay in the room- -and the knife was lord avon 's .
a lace ruffle was found in the dead man 's grasp--and the ruffle was lord avon 's .
some papers were found charred in the grate--and the papers were lord avon 's .
oh , my poor friend , in what moment of madness did you come to do such a deed ? "
the light had gone out of my uncle 's eyes and the extravagance from his manner .
his speech was clear and plain , with none of those strange london ways which had so amazed me .
here was a second uncle , a man of heart and a man of brains , and i liked him better than the first .
" and what said lord avon ? " cried my father .
" he said nothing .
he went about like one who walks in his sleep , with horror-stricken eyes .
none dared arrest him until there should be due inquiry , but when the coroner 's court brought wilful murder against him , the constables came for him in full cry .
but they found him fled .
there was a rumour that he had been seen in westminster in the next week , and then that he had escaped for america , but nothing more is known . it will be a bright day for sir lothian hume when they can prove him dead , for he is next of kin , and till then he can touch neither title nor estate . "
the telling of this grim story had cast a chill upon all of us .
my uncle held out his hands towards the blaze , and i noticed that they were as white as the ruffles which fringed them .
" i know not how things are at cliffe royal now , " said he , thoughtfully .
" it was not a cheery house , even before this shadow fell upon it .
a fitter stage was never set forth for such a tragedy .
but seventeen years have passed , and perhaps even that horrible ceiling-- "
" it still bears the stain , " said i .
i know not which of the three was the more astonished , for my mother had not heard of my adventures of the night .
they never took their wondering eyes off me as i told my story , and my heart swelled with pride when my uncle said that we had carried ourselves well , and that he did not think that many of our age would have stood it as stoutly .
" but as to this ghost , it must have been the creature of your own minds , " said he .
" imagination plays us strange tricks , and though i have as steady a nerve as a man might wish , i cannot answer for what i might see if i were to stand under that blood-stained ceiling at midnight . "
" uncle , " said i , " i saw a figure as plainly as i see that fire , and i heard the steps as clearly as i hear the crackle of the fagots .
besides , we could not both be deceived . "
" there is truth in that , " said be , thoughtfully .
" you saw no features , you say ? "
" it was too dark . "
" but only a figure ? "
" the dark outline of one . "
" and it retreated up the stairs ? "
" yes . "
" and vanished into the wall ? "
" yes . "
" what part of the wall ? " cried a voice from behind us .
my mother screamed , and down came my father 's pipe on to the hearthrug .
i had sprung round with a catch of my breath , and there was the valet , ambrose , his body in the shadow of the doorway , his dark face protruded into the light , and two burning eyes fixed upon mine .
" what the deuce is the meaning of this , sir ? " cried my uncle .
it was strange to see the gleam and passion fade out of the man 's face , and the demure mask of the valet replace it .
his eyes still smouldered , but his features regained their prim composure in an instant .
" i beg your pardon , sir charles , " said he .
" i had come in to ask you if you had any orders for me , and i did not like to interrupt the young gentleman 's story . i am afraid that i have been somewhat carried away by it . "
" i never knew you forget yourself before , " said my uncle .
" you will , i am sure , forgive me , sir charles , if you will call to mind the relation in which i stood to lord avon . "
he spoke with some dignity of manner , and with a bow he left the room .
" we must make some little allowance , " said my uncle , with a sudden return to his jaunty manner .
" when a man can brew a dish of chocolate , or tie a cravat , as ambrose does , he may claim consideration .
the fact is that the poor fellow was valet to lord avon , that he was at cliffe royal upon the fatal night of which i have spoken , and that he is most devoted to his old master .
but my talk has been somewhat triste , sister mary , and now we shall return , if you please , to the dresses of the countess lieven , and the gossip of st. james . "
chapter vi--on the threshold
my father sent me to bed early that night , though i was very eager to stay up , for every word which this man said held my attention .
his face , his manner , the large waves and sweeps of his white hands , his easy air of superiority , his fantastic fashion of talk , all filled me with interest and wonder .
but , as i afterwards learned , their conversation was to be about myself and my own prospects , so i was despatched to my room , whence far into the night i could hear the deep growl of my father and the rich tones of my uncle , with an occasional gentle murmur from my mother , as they talked in the room beneath .
i had dropped asleep at last , when i was awakened suddenly by something wet being pressed against my face , and by two warm arms which were cast round me .
my mother 's cheek was against my own , and i could hear the click of her sobs , and feel her quiver and shake in the darkness .
a faint light stole through the latticed window , and i could dimly see that she was in white , with her black hair loose upon her shoulders .
" you won 't forget us , roddy ?
you won 't forget us ? "
" why , mother , what is it ? "
" your uncle , roddy--he is going to take you away from us . "
" when , mother ? "
" to-morrow . "
god forgive me , how my heart bounded for joy , when hers , which was within touch of it , was breaking with sorrow !
" oh , mother ! " i cried .
" to london ? "
" first to brighton , that he may present you to the prince .
next day to london , where you will meet the great people , roddy , and learn to look down upon--to look down upon your poor , simple , old-fashioned father and mother . "
i put my arms about her to console her , but she wept so that , for all my seventeen years and pride of manhood , it set me weeping also , and with such a hiccoughing noise , since i had not a woman 's knack of quiet tears , that it finally turned her own grief to laughter .
" charles would be flattered if he could see the gracious way in which we receive his kindness , " said she .
" be still , roddy dear , or you will certainly wake him . "
" i 'll not go if it is to grieve you , " i cried .
" nay , dear , you must go , for it may be the one great chance of your life .
and think how proud it will make us all when we hear of you in the company of charles 's grand friends .
but you will promise me not to gamble , roddy ?
you heard to-night of the dreadful things which come from it . "
" i promise you , mother . "
" and you will be careful of wine , roddy ?
you are young and unused to it . "
" yes , mother . "
" and play-actresses also , roddy .
and you will not cast your underclothing until june is in .
young master overton came by his death through it .
think well of your dress , roddy , so as to do your uncle credit , for it is the thing for which he is himself most famed .
you have but to do what he will direct .
but if there is a time when you are not meeting grand people , you can wear out your country things , for your brown coat is as good as new , and the blue one , if it were ironed and relined , would take you through the summer .
i have put out your sunday clothes with the nankeen vest , since you are to see the prince to-morrow , and you will wear your brown silk stockings and buckle shoes .
be guarded in crossing the london streets , for i am told that the hackney coaches are past all imagining .
fold your clothes when you go to bed , roddy , and do not forget your evening prayers , for , oh , my dear boy , the days of temptation are at hand , when i will no longer be with you to help you . "
so with advice and guidance both for this world and the next did my mother , with her soft , warm arms around me , prepare me for the great step which lay before me .
my uncle did not appear at breakfast in the morning , but ambrose brewed him a dish of chocolate and took it to his room .
when at last , about midday , he did descend , he was so fine with his curled hair , his shining teeth , his quizzing glass , his snow-white ruffles , and his laughing eyes , that i could not take my gaze from him .
" well , nephew , " he cried , " what do you think of the prospect of coming to town with me ? "
" i thank you , sir , for the kind interest which you take in me , " said i .
" but you must be a credit to me .
my nephew must be of the best if he is to be in keeping with the rest of me . "
" you 'll find him a chip of good wood , sir , " said my father .
" we must make him a polished chip before we have done with him .
your aim , my dear nephew , must always be to be in bon ton .
it is not a case of wealth , you understand .
mere riches cannot do it .
golden price has forty thousand a year , but his clothes are disastrous . i assure you that i saw him come down st. james 's street the other day , and i was so shocked at his appearance that i had to step into vernet 's for a glass of orange brandy .
no , it is a question of natural taste , and of following the advice and example of those who are more experienced than yourself . "
" i fear , charles , that roddy 's wardrobe is country-made , " said my mother .
" we shall soon set that right when we get to town .
we shall see what stultz or weston can do for him , " my uncle answered .
" we must keep him quiet until he has some clothes to wear . "
this slight upon my best sunday suit brought a flush to my mother 's cheeks , which my uncle instantly observed , for he was quick in noticing trifles .
" the clothes are very well for friar 's oak , sister mary , " said he .
" and yet you can understand that they might seem rococo in the mall .
if you leave him in my hands i shall see to the matter . "
" on how much , sir , " asked my father , " can a young man dress in town ? "
" with prudence and reasonable care , a young man of fashion can dress upon eight hundred a year , " my uncle answered .
i saw my poor father 's face grow longer .
" i fear , sir , that roddy must keep his country clothes , " said he .
" even with my prize-money-- "
" tut , sir ! " cried my uncle .
" i already owe weston something over a thousand , so how can a few odd hundreds affect it ?
if my nephew comes with me , my nephew is my care .
the point is settled , and i must refuse to argue upon it . "
he waved his white hands as if to brush aside all opposition .
my parents tried to thank him , but he cut them short .
" by the way , now that i am in friar 's oak , there is another small piece of business which i have to perform , " said he .
" i believe that there is a fighting-man named harrison here , who at one time might have held the championship .
in those days poor avon and i were his principal backers .
i should like to have a word with him . "
you may think how proud i was to walk down the village street with my magnificent relative , and to note out of the corner of my eye how the folk came to the doors and windows to see us pass .
champion harrison was standing outside the smithy , and he pulled his cap off when he saw my uncle .
" god bless me , sir !
who 'd ha ' thought of seem ' you at friar 's oak ?
why , sir charles , it brings old memories back to look at your face again . "
" glad to see you looking so fit , harrison , " said my uncle , running his eyes over him .
" why , with a week 's training you would be as good a man as ever .
i don 't suppose you scale more than thirteen and a half ? "
" he cannot leave town at present .
he has other cases which engage his attention . "
" what a pity !
he might throw some light on that which is so dark to us .
but as to your own researches , if there is any possible way in which i can be of service to you i trust that you will command me .
if i had any indication of the nature of your suspicions or how you propose to investigate the case , i might perhaps even now give you some aid or advice . "
" i assure you that i am simply here upon a visit to my friend , sir henry , and that i need no help of any kind . "
" excellent ! " said stapleton .
" you are perfectly right to be wary and discreet .
i am justly reproved for what i feel was an unjustifiable intrusion , and i promise you that i will not mention the matter again . "
we had come to a point where a narrow grassy path struck off from the road and wound away across the moor .
a steep , boulder-sprinkled hill lay upon the right which had in bygone days been cut into a granite quarry .
the face which was turned towards us formed a dark cliff , with ferns and brambles growing in its niches .
from over a distant rise there floated a gray plume of smoke .
" a moderate walk along this moor-path brings us to merripit house , " said he .
" perhaps you will spare an hour that i may have the pleasure of introducing you to my sister . "
my first thought was that i should be by sir henry 's side .
but then i remembered the pile of papers and bills with which his study table was littered . it was certain that i could not help with those .
and holmes had expressly said that i should study the neighbours upon the moor .
i accepted stapleton 's invitation , and we turned together down the path .
" it is a wonderful place , the moor , " said he , looking round over the undulating downs , long green rollers , with crests of jagged granite foaming up into fantastic surges .
" you never tire of the moor .
you cannot think the wonderful secrets which it contains .
it is so vast , and so barren , and so mysterious . "
" you know it well , then ? "
" i have only been here two years .
the residents would call me a newcomer .
we came shortly after sir charles settled .
but my tastes led me to explore every part of the country round , and i should think that there are few men who know it better than i do . "
" is it hard to know ? "
" very hard .
you see , for example , this great plain to the north here with the queer hills breaking out of it .
do you observe anything remarkable about that ? "
" it would be a rare place for a gallop . "
" you would naturally think so and the thought has cost several their lives before now .
you notice those bright green spots scattered thickly over it ? "
" yes , they seem more fertile than the rest . "
stapleton laughed .
" that is the great grimpen mire , " said he .
" a false step yonder means death to man or beast .
only yesterday i saw one of the moor ponies wander into it . he never came out .
i saw his head for quite a long time craning out of the bog-hole , but it sucked him down at last .
even in dry seasons it is a danger to cross it , but after these autumn rains it is an awful place .
and yet i can find my way to the very heart of it and return alive .
by george , there is another of those miserable ponies ! "
something brown was rolling and tossing among the green sedges .
then a long , agonized , writhing neck shot upward and a dreadful cry echoed over the moor .
it turned me cold with horror , but my companion 's nerves seemed to be stronger than mine .
" it 's gone ! " said he .
" the mire has him .
two in two days , and many more , perhaps , for they get in the way of going there in the dry weather , and never know the difference until the mire has them in its clutches .
it 's a bad place , the great grimpen mire . "
" and you say you can penetrate it ? "
" yes , there are one or two paths which a very active man can take .
i have found them out . "
" but why should you wish to go into so horrible a place ? "
" well , you see the hills beyond ?
they are really islands cut off on all sides by the impassable mire , which has crawled round them in the course of years .
that is where the rare plants and the butterflies are , if you have the wit to reach them . "
" i shall try my luck some day . "
he looked at me with a surprised face .
" for god 's sake put such an idea out of your mind , " said he .
" your blood would be upon my head .
i assure you that there would not be the least chance of your coming back alive .
it is only by remembering certain complex landmarks that i am able to do it . "
" halloa ! " i cried .
" what is that ? "
a long , low moan , indescribably sad , swept over the moor .
it filled the whole air , and yet it was impossible to say whence it came .
from a dull murmur it swelled into a deep roar , and then sank back into a melancholy , throbbing murmur once again .
stapleton looked at me with a curious expression in his face .
" queer place , the moor ! " said he .
" but what is it ? "
" the peasants say it is the hound of the baskervilles calling for its prey .
i 've heard it once or twice before , but never quite so loud . "
i looked round , with a chill of fear in my heart , at the huge swelling plain , mottled with the green patches of rushes .
nothing stirred over the vast expanse save a pair of ravens , which croaked loudly from a tor behind us .
" you are an educated man .
you don 't believe such nonsense as that ? " said i .
" what do you think is the cause of so strange a sound ? "
" bogs make queer noises sometimes . it 's the mud settling , or the water rising , or something . "
" no , no , that was a living voice . "
" well , perhaps it was .
did you ever hear a bittern booming ? "
" no , i never did . "
" it 's a very rare bird--practically extinct--in england now , but all things are possible upon the moor .
yes , i should not be surprised to learn that what we have heard is the cry of the last of the bitterns . "
" it 's the weirdest , strangest thing that ever i heard in my life . "
" yes , it 's rather an uncanny place altogether .
look at the hill- side yonder .
what do you make of those ? "
the whole steep slope was covered with gray circular rings of stone , a score of them at least .
" what are they ? sheep-pens ? "
" no , they are the homes of our worthy ancestors .
prehistoric man lived thickly on the moor , and as no one in particular has lived there since , we find all his little arrangements exactly as he left them .
these are his wigwams with the roofs off .
you can even see his hearth and his couch if you have the curiosity to go inside .
" but it is quite a town .
when was it inhabited ? "
" neolithic man--no date . "
" what did he do ? "
" he grazed his cattle on these slopes , and he learned to dig for tin when the bronze sword began to supersede the stone axe .
look at the great trench in the opposite hill .
that is his mark .
yes , you will find some very singular points about the moor , dr. watson .
oh , excuse me an instant ! it is surely cyclopides . "
a small fly or moth had fluttered across our path , and in an instant stapleton was rushing with extraordinary energy and speed in pursuit of it .
to my dismay the creature flew straight for the great mire , and my acquaintance never paused for an instant , bounding from tuft to tuft behind it , his green net waving in the air .
his gray clothes and jerky , zigzag , irregular progress made him not unlike some huge moth himself .
i was standing watching his pursuit with a mixture of admiration for his extraordinary activity and fear lest he should lose his footing in the treacherous mire , when i heard the sound of steps , and turning round found a woman near me upon the path .
she had come from the direction in which the plume of smoke indicated the position of merripit house , but the dip of the moor had hid her until she was quite close .
i could not doubt that this was the miss stapleton of whom i had been told , since ladies of any sort must be few upon the moor , and i remembered that i had heard someone describe her as being a beauty .
the woman who approached me was certainly that , and of a most uncommon type .
there could not have been a greater contrast between brother and sister , for stapleton was neutral tinted , with light hair and gray eyes , while she was darker than any brunette whom i have seen in england--slim , elegant , and tall .
she had a proud , finely cut face , so regular that it might have seemed impassive were it not for the sensitive mouth and the beautiful dark , eager eyes .
with her perfect figure and elegant dress she was , indeed , a strange apparition upon a lonely moorland path .
her eyes were on her brother as i turned , and then she quickened her pace towards me .
i had raised my hat and was about to make some explanatory remark , when her own words turned all my thoughts into a new channel .
" go back ! " she said .
" go straight back to london , instantly . "
i could only stare at her in stupid surprise .
her eyes blazed at me , and she tapped the ground impatiently with her foot .
" why should i go back ? " i asked .
" i cannot explain . " she spoke in a low , eager voice , with a curious lisp in her utterance .
" but for god 's sake do what i ask you . go back and never set foot upon the moor again . "
" but i have only just come . "
" man , man ! " she cried .
" can you not tell when a warning is for your own good ?
go back to london !
start to-night !
get away from this place at all costs !
hush , my brother is coming !
not a word of what i have said .
would you mind getting that orchid for me among the mares-tails yonder ?
we are very rich in orchids on the moor , though , of course , you are rather late to see the beauties of the place . "
stapleton had abandoned the chase and came back to us breathing hard and flushed with his exertions .
" halloa , beryl ! " said he , and it seemed to me that the tone of his greeting was not altogether a cordial one .
" well , jack , you are very hot . "
" yes , i was chasing a cyclopides .
he is very rare and seldom found in the late autumn .
what a pity that i should have missed him ! " he spoke unconcernedly , but his small light eyes glanced incessantly from the girl to me .
" you have introduced yourselves , i can see . "
" yes .
i was telling sir henry that it was rather late for him to see the true beauties of the moor . "
" why , who do you think this is ? "
" i imagine that it must be sir henry baskerville . "
" no , no , " said i .
" only a humble commoner , but his friend .
my name is dr. watson . "
a flush of vexation passed over her expressive face .
" we have been talking at cross purposes , " said she .
" why , you had not very much time for talk , " her brother remarked with the same questioning eyes .
" i talked as if dr. watson were a resident instead of being merely a visitor , " said she .
" it cannot much matter to him whether it is early or late for the orchids .
but you will come on , will you not , and see merripit house ? "
a short walk brought us to it , a bleak moorland house , once the farm of some grazier in the old prosperous days , but now put into repair and turned into a modern dwelling .
an orchard surrounded it , but the trees , as is usual upon the moor , were stunted and nipped , and the effect of the whole place was mean and melancholy .
we were admitted by a strange , wizened , rusty-coated old manservant , who seemed in keeping with the house .
inside , however , there were large rooms furnished with an elegance in which i seemed to recognize the taste of the lady .
as i looked from their windows at the interminable granite-flecked moor rolling unbroken to the farthest horizon i could not but marvel at what could have brought this highly educated man and this beautiful woman to live in such a place .
" queer spot to choose , is it not ? " said he as if in answer to my thought .
" and yet we manage to make ourselves fairly happy , do we not , beryl ? "
" quite happy , " said she , but there was no ring of conviction in her words .
" i had a school , " said stapleton .
" it was in the north country . the work to a man of my temperament was mechanical and uninteresting , but the privilege of living with youth , of helping to mould those young minds , and of impressing them with one 's own character and ideals , was very dear to me .
however , the fates were against us .
a serious epidemic broke out in the school and three of the boys died .
it never recovered from the blow , and much of my capital was irretrievably swallowed up .
and yet , if it were not for the loss of the charming companionship of the boys , i could rejoice over my own misfortune , for , with my strong tastes for botany and zoology , i find an unlimited field of work here , and my sister is as devoted to nature as i am .
all this , dr. watson , has been brought upon your head by your expression as you surveyed the moor out of our window . "
" it certainly did cross my mind that it might be a little dull--less for you , perhaps , than for your sister . "
" no , no , i am never dull , " said she , quickly .
" we have books , we have our studies , and we have interesting neighbours .
dr. mortimer is a most learned man in his own line .
poor sir charles was also an admirable companion .
we knew him well , and miss him more than i can tell .
do you think that i should intrude if i were to call this afternoon and make the acquaintance of sir henry ? "
" i am sure that he would be delighted . "
" then perhaps you would mention that i propose to do so .
we may in our humble way do something to make things more easy for him until he becomes accustomed to his new surroundings .
will you come upstairs , dr. watson , and inspect my collection of lepidoptera ?
i think it is the most complete one in the south-west of england .
by the time that you have looked through them lunch will be almost ready . "
but i was eager to get back to my charge .
the melancholy of the moor , the death of the unfortunate pony , the weird sound which had been associated with the grim legend of the baskervilles , all these things tinged my thoughts with sadness .
then on the top of these more or less vague impressions there had come the definite and distinct warning of miss stapleton , delivered with such intense earnestness that i could not doubt that some grave and deep reason lay behind it .
i resisted all pressure to stay for lunch , and i set off at once upon my return journey , taking the grass-grown path by which we had come .
it seems , however , that there must have been some short cut for those who knew it , for before i had reached the road i was astounded to see miss stapleton sitting upon a rock by the side of the track .
her face was beautifully flushed with her exertions , and she held her hand to her side .
" i have run all the way in order to cut you off , dr. watson , " said she .
" i had not even time to put on my hat .
i must not stop , or my brother may miss me .
i wanted to say to you how sorry i am about the stupid mistake i made in thinking that you were sir henry .
please forget the words i said , which have no application whatever to you . "
" but i can 't forget them , miss stapleton , " said i .
" i am sir henry 's friend , and his welfare is a very close concern of mine .
tell me why it was that you were so eager that sir henry should return to london . "
" a woman 's whim , dr. watson .
when you know me better you will understand that i cannot always give reasons for what i say or do . "
" no , no .
i remember the thrill in your voice .
i remember the look in your eyes .
please , please , be frank with me , miss stapleton , for ever since i have been here i have been conscious of shadows all round me .
life has become like that great grimpen mire , with little green patches everywhere into which one may sink and with no guide to point the track .
tell me then what it was that you meant , and i will promise to convey your warning to sir henry . "
an expression of irresolution passed for an instant over her face , but her eyes had hardened again when she answered me .
" you make too much of it , dr. watson , " said she .
" my brother and i were very much shocked by the death of sir charles .
we knew him very intimately , for his favourite walk was over the moor to our house .
he was deeply impressed with the curse which hung over the family , and when this tragedy came i naturally felt that there must be some grounds for the fears which he had expressed .
i was distressed therefore when another member of the family came down to live here , and i felt that he should be warned of the danger which he will run .
that was all which i intended to convey .
" but what is the danger ? "
" you know the story of the hound ? "
" i do not believe in such nonsense . "
" but i do .
if you have any influence with sir henry , take him away from a place which has always been fatal to his family .
the world is wide .
why should he wish to live at the place of danger ? "
" because it is the place of danger .
that is sir henry 's nature .
i fear that unless you can give me some more definite information than this it would be impossible to get him to move . "
" i cannot say anything definite , for i do not know anything definite . "
" i would ask you one more question , miss stapleton .
if you meant no more than this when you first spoke to me , why should you not wish your brother to overhear what you said ?
there is nothing to which he , or anyone else , could object . "
" my brother is very anxious to have the hall inhabited , for he thinks it is for the good of the poor folk upon the moor .
he would be very angry if he knew that i have said anything which might induce sir henry to go away .
but i have done my duty now and i will say no more .
i must get back , or he will miss me and suspect that i have seen you .
good-bye ! "
she turned and had disappeared in a few minutes among the scattered boulders , while i , with my soul full of vague fears , pursued my way to baskerville hall .
chapter 8 first report of dr. watson
> from this point onward i will follow the course of events by transcribing my own letters to mr. sherlock holmes which lie before me on the table .
one page is missing , but otherwise they are exactly as written and show my feelings and suspicions of the moment more accurately than my memory , clear as it is upon these tragic events , can possibly do .
baskerville hall , october 13th .
my dear holmes , --my previous letters and telegrams have kept you pretty well up to date as to all that has occurred in this most god-forsaken corner of the world .
the longer one stays here the more does the spirit of the moor sink into one 's soul , its vastness , and also its grim charm .
when you are once out upon its bosom you have left all traces of modern england behind you , but on the other hand you are conscious everywhere of the homes and the work of the prehistoric people .
on all sides of you as you walk are the houses of these forgotten folk , with their graves and the huge monoliths which are supposed to have marked their temples .
as you look at their gray stone huts against the scarred hill-sides you leave your own age behind you , and if you were to see a skin-clad , hairy man crawl out from the low door fitting a flint-tipped arrow on to the string of his bow , you would feel that his presence there was more natural than your own .
the strange thing is that they should have lived so thickly on what must always have been most unfruitful soil .
i am no antiquarian , but i could imagine that they were some unwarlike and harried race who were forced to accept that which none other would occupy .
all this , however , is foreign to the mission on which you sent me and will probably be very uninteresting to your severely practical mind .
i can still remember your complete indifference as to whether the sun moved round the earth or the earth round the sun .
let me , therefore , return to the facts concerning sir henry baskerville .
if you have not had any report within the last few days it is because up to to-day there was nothing of importance to relate .
then a very surprising circumstance occurred , which i shall tell you in due course .
but , first of all , i must keep you in touch with some of the other factors in the situation .
one of these , concerning which i have said little , is the escaped convict upon the moor .
there is strong reason now to believe that he has got right away , which is a considerable relief to the lonely householders of this district .
a fortnight has passed since his flight , during which he has not been seen and nothing has been heard of him .
it is surely inconceivable that he could have held out upon the moor during all that time .
of course , so far as his concealment goes there is no difficulty at all . any one of these stone huts would give him a hiding-place .
but there is nothing to eat unless he were to catch and slaughter one of the moor sheep .
we think , therefore , that he has gone , and the outlying farmers sleep the better in consequence .
we are four able-bodied men in this household , so that we could take good care of ourselves , but i confess that i have had uneasy moments when i have thought of the stapletons .
they live miles from any help .
there are one maid , an old manservant , the sister , and the brother , the latter not a very strong man .
they would be helpless in the hands of a desperate fellow like this notting hill criminal , if he could once effect an entrance .
both sir henry and i were concerned at their situation , and it was suggested that perkins the groom should go over to sleep there , but stapleton would not hear of it .
the fact is that our friend , the baronet , begins to display a considerable interest in our fair neighbour .
it is not to be wondered at , for time hangs heavily in this lonely spot to an active man like him , and she is a very fascinating and beautiful woman .
there is something tropical and exotic about her which forms a singular contrast to her cool and unemotional brother .
yet he also gives the idea of hidden fires .
he has certainly a very marked influence over her , for i have seen her continually glance at him as she talked as if seeking approbation for what she said .
i trust that he is kind to her .
there is a dry glitter in his eyes , and a firm set of his thin lips , which goes with a positive and possibly a harsh nature .
you would find him an interesting study .
he came over to call upon baskerville on that first day , and the very next morning he took us both to show us the spot where the legend of the wicked hugo is supposed to have had its origin .
it was an excursion of some miles across the moor to a place which is so dismal that it might have suggested the story .
we found a short valley between rugged tors which led to an open , grassy space flecked over with the white cotton grass .
in the middle of it rose two great stones , worn and sharpened at the upper end , until they looked like the huge corroding fangs of some monstrous beast .
in every way it corresponded with the scene of the old tragedy .
sir henry was much interested and asked stapleton more than once whether he did really believe in the possibility of the interference of the supernatural in the affairs of men .
he spoke lightly , but it was evident that he was very much in earnest .
stapleton was guarded in his replies , but it was easy to see that he said less than he might , and that he would not express his whole opinion out of consideration for the feelings of the baronet .
he told us of similar cases , where families had suffered from some evil influence , and he left us with the impression that he shared the popular view upon the matter .
on our way back we stayed for lunch at merripit house , and it was there that sir henry made the acquaintance of miss stapleton . > from the first moment that he saw her he appeared to be strongly attracted by her , and i am much mistaken if the feeling was not mutual .
he referred to her again and again on our walk home , and since then hardly a day has passed that we have not seen something of the brother and sister .
they dine here to-night , and there is some talk of our going to them next week .
one would imagine that such a match would be very welcome to stapleton , and yet i have more than once caught a look of the strongest disapprobation in his face when sir henry has been paying some attention to his sister .
he is much attached to her , no doubt , and would lead a lonely life without her , but it would seem the height of selfishness if he were to stand in the way of her making so brilliant a marriage .
yet i am certain that he does not wish their intimacy to ripen into love , and i have several times observed that he has taken pains to prevent them from being t & circ ; te- & hellip ; -t & circ ; te .
by the way , your instructions to me never to allow sir henry to go out alone will become very much more onerous if a love affair were to be added to our other difficulties . my popularity would soon suffer if i were to carry out your orders to the letter .
the other day--thursday , to be more exact--dr . mortimer lunched with us .
he has been excavating a barrow at long down , and has got a prehistoric skull which fills him with great joy .
never was there such a single-minded enthusiast as he ! the stapletons came in afterwards , and the good doctor took us all to the yew alley , at sir henry 's request , to show us exactly how everything occurred upon that fatal night .
it is a long , dismal walk , the yew alley , between two high walls of clipped hedge , with a narrow band of grass upon either side .
at the far end is an old tumble-down summer-house .
half-way down is the moor-gate , where the old gentleman left his cigar-ash .
it is a white wooden gate with a latch .
beyond it lies the wide moor .
i remembered your theory of the affair and tried to picture all that had occurred .
as the old man stood there he saw something coming across the moor , something which terrified him so that he lost his wits , and ran and ran until he died of sheer horror and exhaustion .
there was the long , gloomy tunnel down which he fled .
and from what ?
a sheep-dog of the moor ?
or a spectral hound , black , silent , and monstrous ?
was there a human agency in the matter ?
did the pale , watchful barrymore know more than he cared to say ?
it was all dim and vague , but always there is the dark shadow of crime behind it .
one other neighbour i have met since i wrote last . this is mr. frankland , of lafter hall , who lives some four miles to the south of us .
he is an elderly man , red-faced , white-haired , and choleric .
his passion is for the british law , and he has spent a large fortune in litigation .
he fights for the mere pleasure of fighting and is equally ready to take up either side of a question , so that it is no wonder that he has found it a costly amusement .
sometimes he will shut up a right of way and defy the parish to make him open it .
at others he will with his own hands tear down some other man 's gate and declare that a path has existed there from time immemorial , defying the owner to prosecute him for trespass .
he is learned in old manorial and communal rights , and he applies his knowledge sometimes in favour of the villagers of fernworthy and sometimes against them , so that he is periodically either carried in triumph down the village street or else burned in effigy , according to his latest exploit .
he is said to have about seven lawsuits upon his hands at present , which will probably swallow up the remainder of his fortune and so draw his sting and leave him harmless for the future .
apart from the law he seems a kindly , good-natured person , and i only mention him because you were particular that i should send some description of the people who surround us .
he is curiously employed at present , for , being an amateur astronomer , he has an excellent telescope , with which he lies upon the roof of his own house and sweeps the moor all day in the hope of catching a glimpse of the escaped convict .
if he would confine his energies to this all would be well , but there are rumours that he intends to prosecute dr. mortimer for opening a grave without the consent of the next-of-kin , because he dug up the neolithic skull in the barrow on long down .
he helps to keep our lives from being monotonous and gives a little comic relief where it is badly needed .
and now , having brought you up to date in the escaped convict , the stapletons , dr. mortimer , and frankland , of lafter hall , let me end on that which is most important and tell you more about the barrymores , and especially about the surprising development of last night .
first of all about the test telegram , which you sent from london in order to make sure that barrymore was really here .
i have already explained that the testimony of the postmaster shows that the test was worthless and that we have no proof one way or the other .
i told sir henry how the matter stood , and he at once , in his downright fashion , had barrymore up and asked him whether he had received the telegram himself .
barrymore said that he had .
" did the boy deliver it into your own hands ? " asked sir henry .
barrymore looked surprised , and considered for a little time .
" no , " said he , " i was in the box-room at the time , and my wife brought it up to me . "
" did you answer it yourself ? "
" no ; i told my wife what to answer and she went down to write it . "
in the evening he recurred to the subject of his own accord .
" i could not quite understand the object of your questions this morning , sir henry , " said he .
" i trust that they do not mean that i have done anything to forfeit your confidence ? "
sir henry had to assure him that it was not so and pacify him by giving him a considerable part of his old wardrobe , the london outfit having now all arrived .
mrs. barrymore is of interest to me .
she is a heavy , solid person , very limited , intensely respectable , and inclined to be puritanical .
you could hardly conceive a less emotional subject .
yet i have told you how , on the first night here , i heard her sobbing bitterly , and since then i have more than once observed traces of tears upon her face .
some deep sorrow gnaws ever at her heart .
sometimes i wonder if she has a guilty memory which haunts her , and sometimes i suspect barrymore of being a domestic tyrant .
i have always felt that there was something singular and questionable in this man 's character , but the adventure of last night brings all my suspicions to a head .
and yet it may seem a small matter in itself .
you are aware that i am not a very sound sleeper , and since i have been on guard in this house my slumbers have been lighter than ever .
last night , about two in the morning , i was aroused by a stealthy step passing my room .
i rose , opened my door , and peeped out .
a long black shadow was trailing down the corridor . it was thrown by a man who walked softly down the passage with a candle held in his hand .
he was in shirt and trousers , with no covering to his feet .
i could merely see the outline , but his height told me that it was barrymore .
he walked very slowly and circumspectly , and there was something indescribably guilty and furtive in his whole appearance .
i have told you that the corridor is broken by the balcony which runs round the hall , but that it is resumed upon the farther side .
i waited until he had passed out of sight and then i followed him .
when i came round the balcony he had reached the end of the farther corridor , and i could see from the glimmer of light through an open door that he had entered one of the rooms .
now , all these rooms are unfurnished and unoccupied , so that his expedition became more mysterious than ever .
the light shone steadily as if he were standing motionless .
i crept down the passage as noiselessly as i could and peeped round the corner of the door .
barrymore was crouching at the window with the candle held against the glass .
his profile was half turned towards me , and his face seemed to be rigid with expectation as he stared out into the blackness of the moor .
for some minutes he stood watching intently .
then he gave a deep groan and with an impatient gesture he put out the light .
instantly i made my way back to my room , and very shortly came the stealthy steps passing once more upon their return journey .
long afterwards when i had fallen into a light sleep i heard a key turn somewhere in a lock , but i could not tell whence the sound came .
what it all means i cannot guess , but there is some secret business going on in this house of gloom which sooner or later we shall get to the bottom of .
i do not trouble you with my theories , for you asked me to furnish you only with facts .
i have had a long talk with sir henry this morning , and we have made a plan of campaign founded upon my observations of last night .
i will not speak about it just now , but it should make my next report interesting reading .
chapter 9 ( second report of dr. watson ) the light upon the moor
baskerville hall , oct. 15th .
my dear holmes , --if i was compelled to leave you without much news during the early days of my mission you must acknowledge that i am making up for lost time , and that events are now crowding thick and fast upon us .
in my last report i ended upon my top note with barrymore at the window , and now i have quite a budget already which will , unless i am much mistaken , considerably surprise you .
things have taken a turn which i could not have anticipated .
in some ways they have within the last forty-eight hours become much clearer and in some ways they have become more complicated .
but i will tell you all and you shall judge for yourself .
before breakfast on the morning following my adventure i went down the corridor and examined the room in which barrymore had been on the night before .
the western window through which he had stared so intently has , i noticed , one peculiarity above all other windows in the house--it commands the nearest outlook on the moor .
there is an opening between two trees which enables one from this point of view to look right down upon it , while from all the other windows it is only a distant glimpse which can be obtained .
it follows , therefore , that barrymore , since only this window would serve the purpose , must have been looking out for something or somebody upon the moor .
the night was very dark , so that i can hardly imagine how he could have hoped to see anyone .
it had struck me that it was possible that some love intrigue was on foot .
that would have accounted for his stealthy movements and also for the uneasiness of his wife .
the man is a striking-looking fellow , very well equipped to steal the heart of a country girl , so that this theory seemed to have something to support it .
that opening of the door which i had heard after i had returned to my room might mean that he had gone out to keep some clandestine appointment .
so i reasoned with myself in the morning , and i tell you the direction of my suspicions , however much the result may have shown that they were unfounded .
but whatever the true explanation of barrymore 's movements might be , i felt that the responsibility of keeping them to myself until i could explain them was more than i could bear .
i had an interview with the baronet in his study after breakfast , and i told him all that i had seen .
he was less surprised than i had expected .
" i knew that barrymore walked about nights , and i had a mind to speak to him about it , " said he .
" two or three times i have heard his steps in the passage , coming and going , just about the hour you name . "
" perhaps then he pays a visit every night to that particular window , " i suggested .
" perhaps he does .
if so , we should be able to shadow him , and see what it is that he is after .
i wonder what your friend holmes would do , if he were here . "
" i believe that he would do exactly what you now suggest , " said i .
" he would follow barrymore and see what he did . "
" then we shall do it together . "
" but surely he would hear us . "
" the man is rather deaf , and in any case we must take our chance of that .
we 'll sit up in my room to-night and wait until he passes . "
sir henry rubbed his hands with pleasure , and it was evident that he hailed the adventure as a relief to his somewhat quiet life upon the moor .
the baronet has been in communication with the architect who prepared the plans for sir charles , and with a contractor from london , so that we may expect great changes to begin here soon .
there have been decorators and furnishers up from plymouth , and it is evident that our friend has large ideas , and means to spare no pains or expense to restore the grandeur of his family .
when the house is renovated and refurnished , all that he will need will be a wife to make it complete .
between ourselves there are pretty clear signs that this will not be wanting if the lady is willing , for i have seldom seen a man more infatuated with a woman than he is with our beautiful neighbour , miss stapleton .
and yet the course of true love does not run quite as smoothly as one would under the circumstances expect .
to-day , for example , its surface was broken by a very unexpected ripple , which has caused our friend considerable perplexity and annoyance .
after the conversation which i have quoted about barrymore , sir henry put on his hat and prepared to go out .
as a matter of course i did the same .
" what , are you coming , watson ? " he asked , looking at me in a curious way .
" that depends on whether you are going on the moor , " said i .
" yes , i am . "
" well , you know what my instructions are .
i am sorry to intrude , but you heard how earnestly holmes insisted that i should not leave you , and especially that you should not go alone upon the moor . "
sir henry put his hand upon my shoulder with a pleasant smile .
" my dear fellow , " said he , " holmes , with all his wisdom , did not foresee some things which have happened since i have been on the moor .
you understand me ?
i am sure that you are the last man in the world who would wish to be a spoil-sport .
i must go out alone . "
it put me in a most awkward position . i was at a loss what to say or what to do , and before i had made up my mind he picked up his cane and was gone .
but when i came to think the matter over my conscience reproached me bitterly for having on any pretext allowed him to go out of my sight .
i imagined what my feelings would be if i had to return to you and to confess that some misfortune had occurred through my disregard for your instructions .
i assure you my cheeks flushed at the very thought .
it might not even now be too late to overtake him , so i set off at once in the direction of merripit house .
i hurried along the road at the top of my speed without seeing anything of sir henry , until i came to the point where the moor path branches off .
there , fearing that perhaps i had come in the wrong direction after all , i mounted a hill from which i could command a view--the same hill which is cut into the dark quarry .
thence i saw him at once .
he was on the moor path , about a quarter of a mile off , and a lady was by his side who could only be miss stapleton .
it was clear that there was already an understanding between them and that they had met by appointment .
they were walking slowly along in deep conversation , and i saw her making quick little movements of her hands as if she were very earnest in what she was saying , while he listened intently , and once or twice shook his head in strong dissent .
i stood among the rocks watching them , very much puzzled as to what i should do next .
to follow them and break into their intimate conversation seemed to be an outrage , and yet my clear duty was never for an instant to let him out of my sight .
to act the spy upon a friend was a hateful task .
still , i could see no better course than to observe him from the hill , and to clear my conscience by confessing to him afterwards what i had done .
it is true that if any sudden danger had threatened him i was too far away to be of use , and yet i am sure that you will agree with me that the position was very difficult , and that there was nothing more which i could do .
our friend , sir henry , and the lady had halted on the path and were standing deeply absorbed in their conversation , when i was suddenly aware that i was not the only witness of their interview .
a wisp of green floating in the air caught my eye , and another glance showed me that it was carried on a stick by a man who was moving among the broken ground .
it was stapleton with his butterfly-net .
he was very much closer to the pair than i was , and he appeared to be moving in their direction .
at this instant sir henry suddenly drew miss stapleton to his side . his arm was round her , but it seemed to me that she was straining away from him with her face averted .
he stooped his head to hers , and she raised one hand as if in protest .
next moment i saw them spring apart and turn hurriedly round .
stapleton was the cause of the interruption .
he was running wildly towards them , his absurd net dangling behind him .
he gesticulated and almost danced with excitement in front of the lovers .
what the scene meant i could not imagine , but it seemed to me that stapleton was abusing sir henry , who offered explanations , which became more angry as the other refused to accept them .
the lady stood by in haughty silence .
finally stapleton turned upon his heel and beckoned in a peremptory way to his sister , who , after an irresolute glance at sir henry , walked off by the side of her brother .
the naturalist 's angry gestures showed that the lady was included in his displeasure .
the baronet stood for a minute looking after them , and then he walked slowly back the way that he had come , his head hanging , the very picture of dejection .
what all this meant i could not imagine , but i was deeply ashamed to have witnessed so intimate a scene without my friend 's knowledge .
i ran down the hill therefore and met the baronet at the bottom .
his face was flushed with anger and his brows were wrinkled , like one who is at his wit 's ends what to do .
" halloa , watson !
where have you dropped from ? " said he .
" you don 't mean to say that you came after me in spite of all ? "
i explained everything to him : how i had found it impossible to remain behind , how i had followed him , and how i had witnessed all that had occurred .
for an instant his eyes blazed at me , but my frankness disarmed his anger , and he broke at last into a rather rueful laugh .
" you would have thought the middle of that prairie a fairly safe place for a man to be private , " said he , " but , by thunder , the whole country-side seems to have been out to see me do my wooing--and a mighty poor wooing at that !
where had you engaged a seat ? "
" i was on that hill . "
" quite in the back row , eh ?
but her brother was well up to the front .
did you see him come out on us ? "
" yes , i did . "
" did he ever strike you as being crazy--this brother of hers ? "
" i can 't say that he ever did . "
" i dare say not .
i always thought him sane enough until to-day , but you can take it from me that either he or i ought to be in a strait-jacket .
what 's the matter with me , anyhow ?
you 've lived near me for some weeks , watson .
tell me straight , now ! is there anything that would prevent me from making a good husband to a woman that i loved ? "
" i should say not . "
" he can 't object to my worldly position , so it must be myself that he has this down on .
what has he against me ?
i never hurt man or woman in my life that i know of .
and yet he would not so much as let me touch the tips of her fingers . "
" did he say so ? "
" that , and a deal more .
i tell you , watson , i 've only known her these few weeks , but from the first i just felt that she was made for me , and she , too--she was happy when she was with me , and that i 'll swear .
there 's a light in a woman 's eyes that speaks louder than words .
but he has never let us get together , and it was only to-day for the first time that i saw a chance of having a few words with her alone .
she was glad to meet me , but when she did it was not love that she would talk about , and she wouldn 't have let me talk about it either if she could have stopped it .
she kept coming back to it that this was a place of danger , and that she would never be happy until i had left it .
i told her that since i had seen her i was in no hurry to leave it , and that if she really wanted me to go , the only way to work it was for her to arrange to go with me .
with that i offered in as many words to marry her , but before she could answer , down came this brother of hers , running at us with a face on him like a madman . he was just white with rage , and those light eyes of his were blazing with fury .
what was i doing with the lady ? how dared i offer her attentions which were distasteful to her ?
did i think that because i was a baronet i could do what i liked ?
if he had not been her brother i should have known better how to answer him .
as it was i told him that my feelings towards his sister were such as i was not ashamed of , and that i hoped that she might honour me by becoming my wife .
that seemed to make the matter no better , so then i lost my temper too , and i answered him rather more hotly than i should perhaps , considering that she was standing by .
so it ended by his going off with her , as you saw , and here am i as badly puzzled a man as any in this county .
just tell me what it all means , watson , and i 'll owe you more than ever i can hope to pay . "
i tried one or two explanations , but , indeed , i was completely puzzled myself .
our friend 's title , his fortune , his age , his character , and his appearance are all in his favour , and i know nothing against him unless it be this dark fate which runs in his family .
that his advances should be rejected so brusquely without any reference to the lady 's own wishes , and that the lady should accept the situation without protest , is very amazing .
however , our conjectures were set at rest by a visit from stapleton himself that very afternoon . he had come to offer apologies for his rudeness of the morning , and after a long private interview with sir henry in his study , the upshot of their conversation was that the breach is quite healed , and that we are to dine at merripit house next friday as a sign of it .
" i don 't say now that he isn 't a crazy man , " said sir henry ; " i can 't forget the look in his eyes when he ran at me this morning , but i must allow that no man could make a more handsome apology than he has done . "
" did he give any explanation of his conduct ? "
" his sister is everything in his life , he says .
that is natural enough , and i am glad that he should understand her value .
they have always been together , and according to his account he has been a very lonely man with only her as a companion , so that the thought of losing her was really terrible to him .
he had not understood , he said , that i was becoming attached to her , but when he saw with his own eyes that it was really so , and that she might be taken away from him , it gave him such a shock that for a time he was not responsible for what he said or did .
he was very sorry for all that had passed , and he recognized how foolish and how selfish it was that he should imagine that he could hold a beautiful woman like his sister to himself for her whole life .
if she had to leave him he had rather it was to a neighbour like myself than to anyone else .
but in any case it was a blow to him , and it would take him some time before he could prepare himself to meet it .
he would withdraw all opposition upon his part if i would promise for three months to let the matter rest and to be content with cultivating the lady 's friendship during that time without claiming her love .
this i promised , and so the matter rests . "
so there is one of our small mysteries cleared up .
it is something to have touched bottom anywhere in this bog in which we are floundering .
we know now why stapleton looked with disfavour upon his sister 's suitor--even when that suitor was so eligible a one as sir henry .
and now i pass on to another thread which i have extricated out of the tangled skein , the mystery of the sobs in the night , of the tear-stained face of mrs. barrymore , of the secret journey of the butler to the western lattice window .
congratulate me , my dear holmes , and tell me that i have not disappointed you as an agent--that you do not regret the confidence which you showed in me when you sent me down .
all these things have by one night 's work been thoroughly cleared .
i have said " by one night 's work , " but , in truth , it was by two nights ' work , for on the first we drew entirely blank .
i sat up with sir henry in his rooms until nearly three o 'clock in the morning , but no sound of any sort did we hear except the chiming clock upon the stairs . it was a most melancholy vigil , and ended by each of us falling asleep in our chairs .
fortunately we were not discouraged , and we determined to try again .
the next night we lowered the lamp , and sat smoking cigarettes without making the least sound .
it was incredible how slowly the hours crawled by , and yet we were helped through it by the same sort of patient interest which the hunter must feel as he watches the trap into which he hopes the game may wander .
one struck , and two , and we had almost for the second time given it up in despair , when in an instant we both sat bolt upright in our chairs , with all our weary senses keenly on the alert once more .
we had heard the creak of a step in the passage .
very stealthily we heard it pass along until it died away in the distance . then the baronet gently opened his door and we set out in pursuit .
already our man had gone round the gallery , and the corridor was all in darkness .
softly we stole along until we had come into the other wing . we were just in time to catch a glimpse of the tall , black-bearded figure , his shoulders rounded , as he tip-toed down the passage .
then he passed through the same door as before , and the light of the candle framed it in the darkness and shot one single yellow beam across the gloom of the corridor . we shuffled cautiously towards it , trying every plank before we dared to put our whole weight upon it .
we had taken the precaution of leaving our boots behind us , but , even so , the old boards snapped and creaked beneath our tread .
sometimes it seemed impossible that he should fail to hear our approach .
however , the man is fortunately rather deaf , and he was entirely preoccupied in that which he was doing .
when at last we reached the door and peeped through we found him crouching at the window , candle in hand , his white , intent face pressed against the pane , exactly as i had seen him two nights before .
we had arranged no plan of campaign , but the baronet is a man to whom the most direct way is always the most natural .
he walked into the room , and as he did so barrymore sprang up from the window with a sharp hiss of his breath and stood , livid and trembling , before us .
his dark eyes , glaring out of the white mask of his face , were full of horror and astonishment as he gazed from sir henry to me .
" what are you doing here , barrymore ? "
" nothing , sir . " his agitation was so great that he could hardly speak , and the shadows sprang up and down from the shaking of his candle .
" it was the window , sir . i go round at night to see that they are fastened . "
" on the second floor ? "
" yes , sir , all the windows . "
" look here , barrymore , " said sir henry , sternly ; " we have made up our minds to have the truth out of you , so it will save you trouble to tell it sooner rather than later .
come , now !
no lies !
what were you doing at that window ? "
the fellow looked at us in a helpless way , and he wrung his hands together like one who is in the last extremity of doubt and misery .
" i was doing no harm , sir .
i was holding a candle to the window . "
" and why were you holding a candle to the window ? "
" don 't ask me , sir henry--don 't ask me !
i give you my word , sir , that it is not my secret , and that i cannot tell it .
if it concerned no one but myself i would not try to keep it from you . "
a sudden idea occurred to me , and i took the candle from the trembling hand of the butler .
" he must have been holding it as a signal , " said i .
" let us see if there is any answer . "
i held it as he had done , and stared out into the darkness of the night .
vaguely i could discern the black bank of the trees and the lighter expanse of the moor , for the moon was behind the clouds .
and then i gave a cry of exultation , for a tiny pin-point of yellow light had suddenly transfixed the dark veil , and glowed steadily in the centre of the black square framed by the window .
" there it is ! " i cried .
" no , no , sir , it is nothing--nothing at all ! " the butler broke in ; " i assure you , sir ---- "
" move your light across the window , watson ! " cried the baronet .
" see , the other moves also !
now , you rascal , do you deny that it is a signal ?
come , speak up !
who is your confederate out yonder , and what is this conspiracy that is going on ? "
the man 's face became openly defiant .
" it is my business , and not yours .
i will not tell . "
" then you leave my employment right away . "
" very good , sir .
if i must i must . "
" and you go in disgrace .
by thunder , you may well be ashamed of yourself .
your family has lived with mine for over a hundred years under this roof , and here i find you deep in some dark plot against me . "
" no , no , sir ; no , not against you ! "
it was a woman 's voice , and mrs. barrymore , paler and more horror-struck than her husband , was standing at the door .
her bulky figure in a shawl and skirt might have been comic were it not for the intensity of feeling upon her face .
" we have to go , eliza .
this is the end of it .
you can pack our things , " said the butler .
" oh , john , john , have i brought you to this ?
it is my doing , sir henry--all mine .
he has done nothing except for my sake and because i asked him . "
" speak out , then !
what does it mean ? "
" my unhappy brother is starving on the moor .
we cannot let him perish at our very gates .
the light is a signal to him that food is ready for him , and his light out yonder is to show the spot to which to bring it . "
" then your brother is -- "
" the escaped convict , sir--selden , the criminal . "
" that 's the truth , sir , " said barrymore .
" i said that it was not my secret and that i could not tell it to you .
but now you have heard it , and you will see that if there was a plot it was not against you . "
this , then , was the explanation of the stealthy expeditions at night and the light at the window .
sir henry and i both stared at the woman in amazement .
was it possible that this stolidly respectable person was of the same blood as one of the most notorious criminals in the country ?
" yes , sir , my name was selden , and he is my younger brother .
we humoured him too much when he was a lad , and gave him his own way in everything until he came to think that the world was made for his pleasure , and that he could do what he liked in it .
then as he grew older he met wicked companions , and the devil entered into him until he broke my mother 's heart and dragged our name in the dirt .
from crime to crime he sank lower and lower , until it is only the mercy of god which has snatched him from the scaffold ; but to me , sir , he was always the little curly-headed boy that i had nursed and played with , as an elder sister would .
that was why he broke prison , sir .
he knew that i was here and that we could not refuse to help him .
when he dragged himself here one night , weary and starving , with the warders hard at his heels , what could we do ?
we took him in and fed him and cared for him .
then you returned , sir , and my brother thought he would be safer on the moor than anywhere else until the hue and cry was over , so he lay in hiding there .
but every second night we made sure if he was still there by putting a light in the window , and if there was an answer my husband took out some bread and meat to him .
every day we hoped that he was gone , but as long as he was there we could not desert him .
that is the whole truth , as i am an honest christian woman , and you will see that if there is blame in the matter it does not lie with my husband , but with me , for whose sake he has done all that he has . "
the woman 's words came with an intense earnestness which carried conviction with them .
" is this true , barrymore ? "
" yes , sir henry .
every word of it . "
" well , i cannot blame you for standing by your own wife .
forget what i have said .
go to your room , you two , and we shall talk further about this matter in the morning . "
when they were gone we looked out of the window again .
sir henry had flung it open , and the cold night wind beat in upon our faces .
far away in the black distance there still glowed that one tiny point of yellow light .
" i wonder he dares , " said sir henry .
" it may be so placed as to be only visible from here . "
" very likely .
how far do you think it is ? "
" not more than a mile or two off . "
" hardly that . "
" well , it cannot be far if barrymore had to carry out the food to it .
and he is waiting , this villain , beside that candle .
by thunder , watson , i am going out to take that man ! "
the same thought had crossed my own mind .
it was not as if the barrymores had taken us into their confidence .
their secret had been forced from them .
the man was a danger to the community , an unmitigated scoundrel for whom there was neither pity nor excuse .
we were only doing our duty in taking this chance of putting him back where he could do no harm .
with his brutal and violent nature , others would have to pay the price if we held our hands .
any night , for example , our neighbours the stapletons might be attacked by him , and it may have been the thought of this which made sir henry so keen upon the adventure .
" i will come , " said i .
" then get your revolver and put on your boots .
the sooner we start the better , as the fellow may put out his light and be off . "
in five minutes we were outside the door , starting upon our expedition .
we hurried through the dark shrubbery , amid the dull moaning of the autumn wind and the rustle of the falling leaves .
the night air was heavy with the smell of damp and decay .
now and again the moon peeped out for an instant , but clouds were driving over the face of the sky , and just as we came out on the moor a thin rain began to fall .
the light still burned steadily in front .
" are you armed ? " i asked .
" i have a hunting-crop . "
" we must close in on him rapidly , for he is said to be a desperate fellow .
we shall take him by surprise and have him at our mercy before he can resist . "
" i say , watson , " said the baronet , " what would holmes say to this ?
how about that hour of darkness in which the power of evil is exalted ? "
as if in answer to his words there rose suddenly out of the vast gloom of the moor that strange cry which i had already heard upon the borders of the great grimpen mire .
it came with the wind through the silence of the night , a long , deep mutter , then a rising howl , and then the sad moan in which it died away .
again and again it sounded , the whole air throbbing with it , strident , wild , and menacing .
the baronet caught my sleeve and his face glimmered white through the darkness .
" my god , what 's that , watson ? "
" i don 't know .
it 's a sound they have on the moor .
i heard it once before . "
it died away , and an absolute silence closed in upon us .
we stood straining our ears , but nothing came .
" watson , " said the baronet , " it was the cry of a hound . "
my blood ran cold in my veins , for there was a break in his voice which told of the sudden horror which had seized him .
" what do they call this sound ? " he asked .
" who ? "
" the folk on the country-side . "
" oh , they are ignorant people .
why should you mind what they call it ? "
" tell me , watson .
what do they say of it ? "
i hesitated but could not escape the question .
" they say it is the cry of the hound of the baskervilles . "
he groaned and was silent for a few moments .
" a hound it was , " he said , at last , " but it seemed to come from miles away , over yonder , i think . "
" it was hard to say whence it came . "
" it rose and fell with the wind .
isn 't that the direction of the great grimpen mire ? "
" yes , it is . "
" well , it was up there .
come now , watson , didn 't you think yourself that it was the cry of a hound ?
i am not a child .
you need not fear to speak the truth . "
" stapleton was with me when i heard it last .
he said that it might be the calling of a strange bird . "
" no , no , it was a hound .
my god , can there be some truth in all these stories ?
is it possible that i am really in danger from so dark a cause ?
you don 't believe it , do you , watson ? "
" no , no . "
" and yet it was one thing to laugh about it in london , and it is another to stand out here in the darkness of the moor and to hear such a cry as that .
and my uncle !
there was the footprint of the hound beside him as he lay .
it all fits together .
i don 't think that i am a coward , watson , but that sound seemed to freeze my very blood .
feel my hand ! "
it was as cold as a block of marble .
" you 'll be all right to-morrow . "
" i don 't think i 'll get that cry out of my head .
what do you advise that we do now ? "
" shall we turn back ? "
" no , by thunder ; we have come out to get our man , and we will do it .
we after the convict , and a hell-hound , as likely as not , after us .
come on !
we 'll see it through if all the fiends of the pit were loose upon the moor . "
we stumbled slowly along in the darkness , with the black loom of the craggy hills around us , and the yellow speck of light burning steadily in front .
there is nothing so deceptive as the distance of a light upon a pitch-dark night , and sometimes the glimmer seemed to be far away upon the horizon and sometimes it might have been within a few yards of us .
but at last we could see whence it came , and then we knew that we were indeed very close .
a guttering candle was stuck in a crevice of the rocks which flanked it on each side so as to keep the wind from it and also to prevent it from being visible , save in the direction of baskerville hall .
a boulder of granite concealed our approach , and crouching behind it we gazed over it at the signal light .
it was strange to see this single candle burning there in the middle of the moor , with no sign of life near it--just the one straight yellow flame and the gleam of the rock on each side of it .
" what shall we do now ? " whispered sir henry .
" wait here .
he must be near his light .
let us see if we can get a glimpse of him . "
the words were hardly out of my mouth when we both saw him .
over the rocks , in the crevice of which the candle burned , there was thrust out an evil yellow face , a terrible animal face , all seamed and scored with vile passions .
foul with mire , with a bristling beard , and hung with matted hair , it might well have belonged to one of those old savages who dwelt in the burrows on the hillsides .
the light beneath him was reflected in his small , cunning eyes which peered fiercely to right and left through the darkness , like a crafty and savage animal who has heard the steps of the hunters .
something had evidently aroused his suspicions .
it may have been that barrymore had some private signal which we had neglected to give , or the fellow may have had some other reason for thinking that all was not well , but i could read his fears upon his wicked face .
any instant he might dash out the light and vanish in the darkness .
i sprang forward therefore , and sir henry did the same .
at the same moment the convict screamed out a curse at us and hurled a rock which splintered up against the boulder which had sheltered us .
i caught one glimpse of his short , squat , strongly- built figure as he sprang to his feet and turned to run .
at the same moment by a lucky chance the moon broke through the clouds .
we rushed over the brow of the hill , and there was our man running with great speed down the other side , springing over the stones in his way with the activity of a mountain goat .
a lucky long shot of my revolver might have crippled him , but i had brought it only to defend myself if attacked , and not to shoot an unarmed man who was running away .
we were both swift runners and in fairly good training , but we soon found that we had no chance of overtaking him .
we saw him for a long time in the moonlight until he was only a small speck moving swiftly among the boulders upon the side of a distant hill .
we ran and ran until we were completely blown , but the space between us grew ever wider .
finally we stopped and sat panting on two rocks , while we watched him disappearing in the distance .
and it was at this moment that there occurred a most strange and unexpected thing .
we had risen from our rocks and were turning to go home , having abandoned the hopeless chase .
the moon was low upon the right , and the jagged pinnacle of a granite tor stood up against the lower curve of its silver disc .
there , outlined as black as an ebony statue on that shining back-ground , i saw the figure of a man upon the tor .
do not think that it was a delusion , holmes .
i assure you that i have never in my life seen anything more clearly .
as far as i could judge , the figure was that of a tall , thin man . he stood with his legs a little separated , his arms folded , his head bowed , as if he were brooding over that enormous wilderness of peat and granite which lay before him .
he might have been the very spirit of that terrible place .
it was not the convict .
this man was far from the place where the latter had disappeared . besides , he was a much taller man .
with a cry of surprise i pointed him out to the baronet , but in the instant during which i had turned to grasp his arm the man was gone .
there was the sharp pinnacle of granite still cutting the lower edge of the moon , but its peak bore no trace of that silent and motionless figure .
i wished to go in that direction and to search the tor , but it was some distance away .
the baronet 's nerves were still quivering from that cry , which recalled the dark story of his family , and he was not in the mood for fresh adventures .
he had not seen this lonely man upon the tor and could not feel the thrill which his strange presence and his commanding attitude had given to me .
" a warder , no doubt , " said he .
" the moor has been thick with them since this fellow escaped . "
well , perhaps his explanation may be the right one , but i should like to have some further proof of it .
to-day we mean to communicate to the princetown people where they should look for their missing man , but it is hard lines that we have not actually had the triumph of bringing him back as our own prisoner .
such are the adventures of last night , and you must acknowledge , my dear holmes , that i have done you very well in the matter of a report .
much of what i tell you is no doubt quite irrelevant , but still i feel that it is best that i should let you have all the facts and leave you to select for yourself those which will be of most service to you in helping you to your conclusions .
we are certainly making some progress .
so far as the barrymores go we have found the motive of their actions , and that has cleared up the situation very much .
but the moor with its mysteries and its strange inhabitants remains as inscrutable as ever .
perhaps in my next i may be able to throw some light upon this also . best of all would it be if you could come down to us .
in any case you will hear from me again in the course of the next few days .
chapter 10 extract from the diary of dr. watson
so far i have been able to quote from the reports which i have forwarded during these early days to sherlock holmes .
now , however , i have arrived at a point in my narrative where i am compelled to abandon this method and to trust once more to my recollections , aided by the diary which i kept at the time .
a few extracts from the latter will carry me on to those scenes which are indelibly fixed in every detail upon my memory .
i proceed , then , from the morning which followed our abortive chase of the convict and our other strange experiences upon the moor .
october 16th.--a dull and foggy day with a drizzle of rain .
the house is banked in with rolling clouds , which rise now and then to show the dreary curves of the moor , with thin , silver veins upon the sides of the hills , and the distant boulders gleaming where the light strikes upon their wet faces .
it is melancholy outside and in .
the baronet is in a black reaction after the excitements of the night .
i am conscious myself of a weight at my heart and a feeling of impending danger--ever present danger , which is the more terrible because i am unable to define it .
and have i not cause for such a feeling ?
consider the long sequence of incidents which have all pointed to some sinister influence which is at work around us .
there is the death of the last occupant of the hall , fulfilling so exactly the conditions of the family legend , and there are the repeated reports from peasants of the appearance of a strange creature upon the moor .
twice i have with my own ears heard the sound which resembled the distant baying of a hound .
it is incredible , impossible , that it should really be outside the ordinary laws of nature .
a spectral hound which leaves material footmarks and fills the air with its howling is surely not to be thought of .
stapleton may fall in with such a superstition , and mortimer also ; but if i have one quality upon earth it is common-sense , and nothing will persuade me to believe in such a thing .
to do so would be to descend to the level of these poor peasants , who are not content with a mere fiend dog but must needs describe him with hell-fire shooting from his mouth and eyes .
holmes would not listen to such fancies , and i am his agent .
but facts are facts , and i have twice heard this crying upon the moor .
suppose that there were really some huge hound loose upon it ; that would go far to explain everything .
but where could such a hound lie concealed , where did it get its food , where did it come from , how was it that no one saw it by day ?
it must be confessed that the natural explanation offers almost as many difficulties as the other .
and always , apart from the hound , there is the fact of the human agency in london , the man in the cab , and the letter which warned sir henry against the moor .
this at least was real , but it might have been the work of a protecting friend as easily as of an enemy .
where is that friend or enemy now ?
has he remained in london , or has he followed us down here ?
could he--could he be the stranger whom i saw upon the tor ?
it is true that i have had only the one glance at him , and yet there are some things to which i am ready to swear . he is no one whom i have seen down here , and i have now met all the neighbours .
the figure was far taller than that of stapleton , far thinner than that of frankland .
barrymore it might possibly have been , but we had left him behind us , and i am certain that he could not have followed us .
a stranger then is still dogging us , just as a stranger dogged us in london .
we have never shaken him off .
if i could lay my hands upon that man , then at last we might find ourselves at the end of all our difficulties .
to this one purpose i must now devote all my energies .
my first impulse was to tell sir henry all my plans .
my second and wisest one is to play my own game and speak as little as possible to anyone .
he is silent and distrait .
his nerves have been strangely shaken by that sound upon the moor .
i will say nothing to add to his anxieties , but i will take my own steps to attain my own end .
we had a small scene this morning after breakfast .
barrymore asked leave to speak with sir henry , and they were closeted in his study some little time .
sitting in the billiard-room i more than once heard the sound of voices raised , and i had a pretty good idea what the point was which was under discussion .
after a time the baronet opened his door and called for me .
" barrymore considers that he has a grievance , " he said .
" he thinks that it was unfair on our part to hunt his brother-in-law down when he , of his own free will , had told us the secret . "
the butler was standing very pale but very collected before us .
" i may have spoken too warmly , sir , " said he , " and if i have , i am sure that i beg your pardon .
at the same time , i was very much surprised when i heard you two gentlemen come back this morning and learned that you had been chasing selden .
the poor fellow has enough to fight against without my putting more upon his track . "
" if you had told us of your own free will it would have been a different thing , " said the baronet , " you only told us , or rather your wife only told us , when it was forced from you and you could not help yourself . "
" i didn 't think you would have taken advantage of it , sir henry--indeed i didn 't . "
" the man is a public danger .
there are lonely houses scattered over the moor , and he is a fellow who would stick at nothing .
you only want to get a glimpse of his face to see that .
look at mr. stapleton 's house , for example , with no one but himself to defend it .
there 's no safety for anyone until he is under lock and key . "
" he 'll break into no house , sir .
i give you my solemn word upon that .
but he will never trouble anyone in this country again .
i assure you , sir henry , that in a very few days the necessary arrangements will have been made and he will be on his way to south america .
for god 's sake , sir , i beg of you not to let the police know that he is still on the moor .
they have given up the chase there , and he can lie quiet until the ship is ready for him .
you can 't tell on him without getting my wife and me into trouble .
i beg you , sir , to say nothing to the police . "
" what do you say , watson ? "
i shrugged my shoulders . " if he were safely out of the country it would relieve the tax-payer of a burden . "
" but how about the chance of his holding someone up before he goes ? "
" he would not do anything so mad , sir .
we have provided him with all that he can want .
to commit a crime would be to show where he was hiding . "
" that is true , " said sir henry .
" well , barrymore -- "
" god bless you , sir , and thank you from my heart !
it would have killed my poor wife had he been taken again . "
" i guess we are aiding and abetting a felony , watson ?
but , after what we have heard i don 't feel as if i could give the man up , so there is an end of it .
all right , barrymore , you can go . "
with a few broken words of gratitude the man turned , but he hesitated and then came back .
" you 've been so kind to us , sir , that i should like to do the best i can for you in return .
i know something , sir henry , and perhaps i should have said it before , but it was long after the inquest that i found it out .
i 've never breathed a word about it yet to mortal man .
it 's about poor sir charles 's death . "
the baronet and i were both upon our feet .
" do you know how he died ? "
" no , sir , i don 't know that . "
" what then ? "
" i know why he was at the gate at that hour .
it was to meet a woman . "
" to meet a woman !
he ? "
" yes , sir . "
" and the woman 's name ? "
" i can 't give you the name , sir , but i can give you the initials .
her initials were l. l. "
" how do you know this , barrymore ? "
" well , sir henry , your uncle had a letter that morning .
he had usually a great many letters , for he was a public man and well known for his kind heart , so that everyone who was in trouble was glad to turn to him .
but that morning , as it chanced , there was only this one letter , so i took the more notice of it .
it was from coombe tracey , and it was addressed in a woman 's hand . "
" well ? "
" well , sir , i thought no more of the matter , and never would have done had it not been for my wife .
only a few weeks ago she was cleaning out sir charles 's study--it had never been touched since his death--and she found the ashes of a burned letter in the back of the grate .
the greater part of it was charred to pieces , but one little slip , the end of a page , hung together , and the writing could still be read , though it was gray on a black ground .
it seemed to us to be a postscript at the end of the letter , and it said : ' please , please , as you are a gentleman , burn this letter , and be at the gate by ten o clock .
beneath it were signed the initials l. l. "
" have you got that slip ? "
" no , sir , it crumbled all to bits after we moved it . "
" had sir charles received any other letters in the same writing ? "
" well , sir , i took no particular notice of his letters .
i should not have noticed this one , only it happened to come alone . "
" and you have no idea who l. l. is ? "
" no , sir .
no more than you have .
but i expect if we could lay our hands upon that lady we should know more about sir charles 's death . "
" i cannot understand , barrymore , how you came to conceal this important information . "
" well , sir , it was immediately after that our own trouble came to us .
and then again , sir , we were both of us very fond of sir charles , as we well might be considering all that he has done for us .
to rake this up couldn 't help our poor master , and it 's well to go carefully when there 's a lady in the case .
even the best of us ---- "
" you thought it might injure his reputation ? "
" well , sir , i thought no good could come of it .
but now you have been kind to us , and i feel as if it would be treating you unfairly not to tell you all that i know about the matter . "
" very good , barrymore ; you can go . "
when the butler had left us sir henry turned to me .
" well , watson , what do you think of this new light ? "
" it seems to leave the darkness rather blacker than before . "
" so i think .
but if we can only trace l. l. it should clear up the whole business .
we have gained that much . we know that there is someone who has the facts if we can only find her .
what do you think we should do ? "
" let holmes know all about it at once .
it will give him the clue for which he has been seeking .
i am much mistaken if it does not bring him down . "
i went at once to my room and drew up my report of the morning 's conversation for holmes .
it was evident to me that he had been very busy of late , for the notes which i had from baker street were few and short , with no comments upon the information which i had supplied and hardly any reference to my mission .
no doubt his blackmailing case is absorbing all his faculties .
and yet this new factor must surely arrest his attention and renew his interest .
i wish that he were here .
october 17th.--all day to-day the rain poured down , rustling on the ivy and dripping from the eaves .
i thought of the convict out upon the bleak , cold , shelterless moor .
poor devil !
whatever his crimes , he has suffered something to atone for them .
and then i thought of that other one--the face in the cab , the figure against the moon .
was he also out in that deluged--the unseen watcher , the man of darkness ?
in the evening i put on my waterproof and i walked far upon the sodden moor , full of dark imaginings , the rain beating upon my face and the wind whistling about my ears .
god help those who wander into the great mire now , for even the firm uplands are becoming a morass .
i found the black tor upon which i had seen the solitary watcher , and from its craggy summit i looked out myself across the melancholy downs .
rain squalls drifted across their russet face , and the heavy , slate-coloured clouds hung low over the landscape , trailing in gray wreaths down the sides of the fantastic hills .
in the distant hollow on the left , half hidden by the mist , the two thin towers of baskerville hall rose above the trees .
they were the only signs of human life which i could see , save only those prehistoric huts which lay thickly upon the slopes of the hills .
nowhere was there any trace of that lonely man whom i had seen on the same spot two nights before .
as i walked back i was overtaken by dr. mortimer driving in his dog-cart over a rough moorland track which led from the outlying farmhouse of foulmire .
he has been very attentive to us , and hardly a day has passed that he has not called at the hall to see how we were getting on .
he insisted upon my climbing into his dog-cart , and he gave me a lift homeward .
i found him much troubled over the disappearance of his little spaniel . it had wandered on to the moor and had never come back .
i gave him such consolation as i might , but i thought of the pony on the grimpen mire , and i do not fancy that he will see his little dog again .
" by the way , mortimer , " said i as we jolted along the rough road , " i suppose there are few people living within driving distance of this whom you do not know ? "
" hardly any , i think . "
" can you , then , tell me the name of any woman whose initials are l. l. ? "
he thought for a few minutes .
" no , " said he .
" there are a few gipsies and labouring folk for whom i can 't answer , but among the farmers or gentry there is no one whose initials are those .
wait a bit though , " he added after a pause . " there is laura lyons--her initials are l. l.--but she lives in coombe tracey . "
" who is she ? " i asked .
" she is frankland 's daughter . "
" what ! old frankland the crank ? "
" exactly . she married an artist named lyons , who came sketching on the moor .
he proved to be a blackguard and deserted her .
the fault from what i hear may not have been entirely on one side .
her father refused to have anything to do with her because she had married without his consent , and perhaps for one or two other reasons as well .
so , between the old sinner and the young one the girl has had a pretty bad time . "
" how does she live ? "
" i fancy old frankland allows her a pittance , but it cannot be more , for his own affairs are considerably involved .
whatever she may have deserved one could not allow her to go hopelessly to the bad .
her story got about , and several of the people here did something to enable her to earn an honest living .
stapleton did for one , and sir charles for another .
i gave a trifle myself .
it was to set her up in a typewriting business . "
he wanted to know the object of my inquiries , but i managed to satisfy his curiosity without telling him too much , for there is no reason why we should take anyone into our confidence .
to-morrow morning i shall find my way to coombe tracey , and if i can see this mrs. laura lyons , of equivocal reputation , a long step will have been made towards clearing one incident in this chain of mysteries .
i am certainly developing the wisdom of the serpent , for when mortimer pressed his questions to an inconvenient extent i asked him casually to what type frankland 's skull belonged , and so heard nothing but craniology for the rest of our drive .
i have not lived for years with sherlock holmes for nothing .
i have only one other incident to record upon this tempestuous and melancholy day .
this was my conversation with barrymore just now , which gives me one more strong card which i can play in due time .
mortimer had stayed to dinner , and he and the baronet played ecart & sbquo ; afterwards .
the butler brought me my coffee into the library , and i took the chance to ask him a few questions .
" well , " said i , " has this precious relation of yours departed , or is he still lurking out yonder ? "
" i don 't know , sir .
i hope to heaven that he has gone , for he has brought nothing but trouble here !
i 've not heard of him since i left out food for him last , and that was three days ago . "
" did you see him then ? "
" no , sir , but the food was gone when next i went that way . "
" then he was certainly there ? "
" so you would think , sir , unless it was the other man who took it . "
i sat with my coffee-cup halfway to my lips and stared at barrymore .
" you know that there is another man then ? "
" yes , sir ; there is another man upon the moor . "
" have you seen him ? "
" no , sir . "
" how do you know of him then ? "
" selden told me of him , sir , a week ago or more .
he 's in hiding , too , but he 's not a convict as far as i can make out .
i don 't like it , dr. watson--i tell you straight , sir , that i don 't like it . "
he spoke with a sudden passion of earnestness .
" now , listen to me , barrymore !
i have no interest in this matter but that of your master .
i have come here with no object except to help him .
tell me , frankly , what it is that you don 't like . "
barrymore hesitated for a moment , as if he regretted his outburst , or found it difficult to express his own feelings in words .
" it 's all these goings-on , sir , " he cried at last , waving his hand towards the rain-lashed window which faced the moor .
" there 's foul play somewhere , and there 's black villainy brewing , to that i 'll swear !
very glad i should be , sir , to see sir henry on his way back to london again ! "
" but what is it that alarms you ? "
" look at sir charles 's death !
that was bad enough , for all that the coroner said .
look at the noises on the moor at night .
there 's not a man would cross it after sundown if he was paid for it .
look at this stranger hiding out yonder , and watching and waiting !
what 's he waiting for ?
what does it mean ?
it means no good to anyone of the name of baskerville , and very glad i shall be to be quit of it all on the day that sir henry 's new servants are ready to take over the hall . "
" but about this stranger , " said i. " can you tell me anything about him ?
what did selden say ?
did he find out where he hid , or what he was doing ? "
" he saw him once or twice , but he is a deep one , and gives nothing away .
at first he thought that he was the police , but soon he found that he had some lay of his own .
a kind of gentleman he was , as far as he could see , but what he was doing he could not make out . "
" and where did he say that he lived ? "
" among the old houses on the hillside--the stone huts where the old folk used to live . "
" but how about his food ? "
" selden found out that he has got a lad who works for him and brings him all he needs .
i dare say he goes to coombe tracey for what he wants . "
" very good , barrymore .
we may talk further of this some other time . "
when the butler had gone i walked over to the black window , and i looked through a blurred pane at the driving clouds and at the tossing outline of the wind-swept trees .
it is a wild night indoors , and what must it be in a stone hut upon the moor .
what passion of hatred can it be which leads a man to lurk in such a place at such a time !
and what deep and earnest purpose can he have which calls for such a trial !
there , in that hut upon the moor , seems to lie the very centre of that problem which has vexed me so sorely .
i swear that another day shall not have passed before i have done all that man can do to reach the heart of the mystery .
chapter 11 the man on the tor
the extract from my private diary which forms the last chapter has brought my narrative up to the 18th of october , a time when these strange events began to move swiftly towards their terrible conclusion .
the incidents of the next few days are indelibly graven upon my recollection , and i can tell them without reference to the notes made at the time .
i start then from the day which succeeded that upon which i had established two facts of great importance , the one that mrs. laura lyons of coombe tracey had written to sir charles baskerville and made an appointment with him at the very place and hour that he met his death , the other that the lurking man upon the moor was to be found among the stone huts upon the hill-side .
with these two facts in my possession i felt that either my intelligence or my courage must be deficient if i could not throw some further light upon these dark places .
i had no opportunity to tell the baronet what i had learned about mrs. lyons upon the evening before , for dr. mortimer remained with him at cards until it was very late .
at breakfast , however , i informed him about my discovery , and asked him whether he would care to accompany me to coombe tracey .
at first he was very eager to come , but on second thoughts it seemed to both of us that if i went alone the results might be better .
the more formal we made the visit the less information we might obtain .
i left sir henry behind , therefore , not without some prickings of conscience , and drove off upon my new quest .
when i reached coombe tracey i told perkins to put up the horses , and i made inquiries for the lady whom i had come to interrogate . i had no difficulty in finding her rooms , which were central and well appointed .
a maid showed me in without ceremony , and as i entered the sitting-room a lady , who was sitting before a remington typewriter , sprang up with a pleasant smile of welcome .
her face fell , however , when she saw that i was a stranger , and she sat down again and asked me the object of my visit .
the first impression left by mrs. lyons was one of extreme beauty .
her eyes and hair were of the same rich hazel colour , and her cheeks , though considerably freckled , were flushed with the exquisite bloom of the brunette , the dainty pink which lurks at the heart of the sulphur rose . admiration was , i repeat , the first impression .
but the second was criticism . there was something subtly wrong with the face , some coarseness of expression , some hardness , perhaps , of eye , some looseness of lip which marred its perfect beauty .
but these , of course , are after-thoughts . at the moment i was simply conscious that i was in the presence of a very handsome woman , and that she was asking me the reasons for my visit .
i had not quite understood until that instant how delicate my mission was .
" i have the pleasure , " said i , " of knowing your father . "
it was a clumsy introduction , and the lady made me feel it .
" there is nothing in common between my father and me , " she said .
" i owe him nothing , and his friends are not mine .
if it were not for the late sir charles baskerville and some other kind hearts i might have starved for all that my father cared . "
" it was about the late sir charles baskerville that i have come here to see you . "
the freckles started out on the lady 's face .
" what can i tell you about him ? " she asked , and her fingers played nervously over the stops of her typewriter .
" you knew him , did you not ? "
" i have already said that i owe a great deal to his kindness .
if i am able to support myself it is largely due to the interest which he took in my unhappy situation . "
" did you correspond with him ? "
the lady looked quickly up with an angry gleam in her hazel eyes .
" what is the object of these questions ? " she asked sharply .
" the object is to avoid a public scandal . it is better that i should ask them here than that the matter should pass outside our control . "
she was silent and her face was still very pale .
at last she looked up with something reckless and defiant in her manner .
" well , i 'll answer , " she said .
" what are your questions ? "
" did you correspond with sir charles ? "
" i certainly wrote to him once or twice to acknowledge his delicacy and his generosity . "
" have you the dates of those letters ? "
" no . "
" have you ever met him ? "
" yes , once or twice , when he came into coombe tracey .
he was a very retiring man , and he preferred to do good by stealth . "
" but if you saw him so seldom and wrote so seldom , how did he know enough about your affairs to be able to help you , as you say that he has done ? "
she met my difficulty with the utmost readiness .
" there were several gentlemen who knew my sad history and united to help me .
one was mr. stapleton , a neighbour and intimate friend of sir charles 's .
he was exceedingly kind , and it was through him that sir charles learned about my affairs . "
i knew already that sir charles baskerville had made stapleton his almoner upon several occasions , so the lady 's statement bore the impress of truth upon it .
" did you ever write to sir charles asking him to meet you ? " i continued .
mrs. lyons flushed with anger again .
" really , sir , this is a very extraordinary question . "
" i am sorry , madam , but i must repeat it . "
" then i answer , certainly not . "
" not on the very day of sir charles 's death ? "
the flush had faded in an instant , and a deathly face was before me .
her dry lips could not speak the " no " which i saw rather than heard .
" surely your memory deceives you , " said i .
" i could even quote a passage of your letter . it ran ' please , please , as you are a gentleman , burn this letter , and be at the gate by ten o 'clock . ' "
i thought that she had fainted , but she recovered herself by a supreme effort .
" is there no such thing as a gentleman ? " she gasped .
" you do sir charles an injustice .
he did burn the letter .
but sometimes a letter may be legible even when burned .
you acknowledge now that you wrote it ? "
" yes , i did write it , " she cried , pouring out her soul in a torrent of words .
" i did write it .
why should i deny it ?
i have no reason to be ashamed of it .
i wished him to help me .
i believed that if i had an interview i could gain his help , so i asked him to meet me . "
" but why at such an hour ? "
" because i had only just learned that he was going to london next day and might be away for months .
there were reasons why i could not get there earlier . "
" but why a rendezvous in the garden instead of a visit to the house ? "
" do you think a woman could go alone at that hour to a bachelor 's house ? "
" well , what happened when you did get there ? "
" i never went . "
" mrs. lyons ! "
" no , i swear it to you on all i hold sacred .
i never went .
something intervened to prevent my going . "
" what was that ? "
" that is a private matter .
i cannot tell it . "
" you acknowledge then that you made an appointment with sir charles at the very hour and place at which he met his death , but you deny that you kept the appointment . "
" that is the truth . "
again and again i cross-questioned her , but i could never get past that point .
" mrs. lyons , " said i , as i rose from this long and inconclusive interview , " you are taking a very great responsibility and putting yourself in a very false position by not making an absolutely clean breast of all that you know .
if i have to call in the aid of the police you will find how seriously you are compromised .
if your position is innocent , why did you in the first instance deny having written to sir charles upon that date ? "
" because i feared that some false conclusion might be drawn from it and that i might find myself involved in a scandal . "
" and why were you so pressing that sir charles should destroy your letter ? "
" if you have read the letter you will know . "
" i did not say that i had read all the letter . "
" you quoted some of it . "
" i quoted the postscript .
the letter had , as i said , been burned and it was not all legible .
i ask you once again why it was that you were so pressing that sir charles should destroy this letter which he received on the day of his death . "
" the matter is a very private one . "
" the more reason why you should avoid a public investigation . "
" i will tell you , then .
if you have heard anything of my unhappy history you will know that i made a rash marriage and had reason to regret it . "
" i have heard so much . "
" my life has been one incessant persecution from a husband whom i abhor .
the law is upon his side , and every day i am faced by the possibility that he may force me to live with him .
at the time that i wrote this letter to sir charles i had learned that there was a prospect of my regaining my freedom if certain expenses could be met .
it meant everything to me--peace of mind , happiness , self-respect--everything .
i knew sir charles 's generosity , and i thought that if he heard the story from my own lips he would help me . "
" then how is it that you did not go ? "
" because i received help in the interval from another source . "
" why then , did you not write to sir charles and explain this ? "
" so i should have done had i not seen his death in the paper next morning . "
the woman 's story hung coherently together , and all my questions were unable to shake it .
i could only check it by finding if she had , indeed , instituted divorce proceedings against her husband at or about the time of the tragedy .
it was unlikely that she would dare to say that she had not been to baskerville hall if she really had been , for a trap would be necessary to take her there , and could not have returned to coombe tracey until the early hours of the morning .
such an excursion could not be kept secret .
the probability was , therefore , that she was telling the truth , or , at least , a part of the truth .
i came away baffled and disheartened .
once again i had reached that dead wall which seemed to be built across every path by which i tried to get at the object of my mission .
and yet the more i thought of the lady 's face and of her manner the more i felt that something was being held back from me .
why should she turn so pale ?
why should she fight against every admission until it was forced from her ?
why should she have been so reticent at the time of the tragedy ?
surely the explanation of all this could not be as innocent as she would have me believe .
for the moment i could proceed no farther in that direction , but must turn back to that other clue which was to be sought for among the stone huts upon the moor .
and that was a most vague direction .
i realized it as i drove back and noted how hill after hill showed traces of the ancient people .
barrymore 's only indication had been that the stranger lived in one of these abandoned huts , and many hundreds of them are scattered throughout the length and breadth of the moor .
but i had my own experience for a guide since it had shown me the man himself standing upon the summit of the black tor .
that then should be the centre of my search .
from there i should explore every hut upon the moor until i lighted upon the right one .
if this man were inside it i should find out from his own lips , at the point of my revolver if necessary , who he was and why he had dogged us so long .
he might slip away from us in the crowd of regent street , but it would puzzle him to do so upon the lonely moor .
on the other hand , if i should find the hut and its tenant should not be within it i must remain there , however long the vigil , until he returned .
holmes had missed him in london .
it would indeed be a triumph for me if i could run him to earth , where my master had failed .
luck had been against us again and again in this inquiry , but now at last it came to my aid . and the messenger of good fortune was none other than mr. frankland , who was standing , gray-whiskered and red-faced , outside the gate of his garden , which opened on to the high road along which i travelled .
" good-day , dr. watson , " cried he with unwonted good humour , " you must really give your horses a rest , and come in to have a glass of wine and to congratulate me . "
my feelings towards him were very far from being friendly after what i had heard of his treatment of his daughter , but i was anxious to send perkins and the wagonette home , and the opportunity was a good one .
i alighted and sent a message to sir henry that i should walk over in time for dinner .
then i followed frankland into his dining-room .
" it is a great day for me , sir--one of the red-letter days of my life , " he cried with many chuckles .
" i have brought off a double event .
i mean to teach them in these parts that law is law , and that there is a man here who does not fear to invoke it .
i have established a right of way through the centre of old middleton 's park , slap across it , sir , within a hundred yards of his own front door .
what do you think of that ?
we 'll teach these magnates that they cannot ride roughshod over the rights of the commoners , confound them !
and i 've closed the wood where the fernworthy folk used to picnic .
these infernal people seem to think that there are no rights of property , and that they can swarm where they like with their papers and their bottles .
both cases decided , dr. watson , and both in my favour .
i haven 't had such a day since i had sir john morland for trespass , because he shot in his own warren . "
" how on earth did you do that ? "
" look it up in the books , sir .
it will repay reading--frankland v. morland , court of queen 's bench . it cost me 200 pounds , but i got my verdict . "
" did it do you any good ? "
" none , sir , none .
i am proud to say that i had no interest in the matter .
i act entirely from a sense of public duty .
i have no doubt , for example , that the fernworthy people will burn me in effigy to-night .
i told the police last time they did it that they should stop these disgraceful exhibitions .
the county constabulary is in a scandalous state , sir , and it has not afforded me the protection to which i am entitled .
the case of frankland v. regina will bring the matter before the attention of the public .
i told them that they would have occasion to regret their treatment of me , and already my words have come true . "
" how so ? " i asked .
the old man put on a very knowing expression .
" because i could tell them what they are dying to know ; but nothing would induce me to help the rascals in any way . "
i had been casting round for some excuse by which i could get away from his gossip , but now i began to wish to hear more of it .
i had seen enough of the contrary nature of the old sinner to understand that any strong sign of interest would be the surest way to stop his confidences .
" some poaching case , no doubt ? " said i , with an indifferent manner .
" ha , ha , my boy , a very much more important matter than that !
what about the convict on the moor ? "
i started .
" you don 't mean that you know where he is ? " said i .
" i may not know exactly where he is , but i am quite sure that i could help the police to lay their hands on him .
has it never struck you that the way to catch that man was to find out where he got his food , and so trace it to him ? "
he certainly seemed to be getting uncomfortably near the truth .
" no doubt , " said i ; " but how do you know that he is anywhere upon the moor ? "
" i know it because i have seen with my own eyes the messenger who takes him his food . "
my heart sank for barrymore .
it was a serious thing to be in the power of this spiteful old busybody .
but his next remark took a weight from my mind .
" you 'll be surprised to hear that his food is taken to him by a child .
i see him every day through my telescope upon the roof .
he passes along the same path at the same hour , and to whom should he be going except to the convict ? "
here was luck indeed !
and yet i suppressed all appearance of interest .
a child !
barrymore had said that our unknown was supplied by a boy .
it was on his track , and not upon the convict 's , that frankland had stumbled .
if i could get his knowledge it might save me a long and weary hunt .
but incredulity and indifference were evidently my strongest cards .
" i should say that it was much more likely that it was the son of one of the moorland shepherds taking out his father 's dinner . "
the least appearance of opposition struck fire out of the old autocrat .
his eyes looked malignantly at me , and his gray whiskers bristled like those of an angry cat .
" indeed , sir ! " said he , pointing out over the wide-stretching moor .
" do you see that black tor over yonder ?
well , do you see the low hill beyond with the thornbush upon it ?
it is the stoniest part of the whole moor .
is that a place where a shepherd would be likely to take his station ?
your suggestion , sir , is a most absurd one . "
i meekly answered that i had spoken without knowing all the facts .
my submission pleased him and led him to further confidences .
" you may be sure , sir , that i have very good grounds before i come to an opinion .
i have seen the boy again and again with his bundle .
every day , and sometimes twice a day , i have been able--but wait a moment , dr. watson .
do my eyes deceive me , or is there at the present moment something moving upon that hill- side ? "
it was several miles off , but i could distinctly see a small dark dot against the dull green and gray .
" come , sir , come ! " cried frankland , rushing upstairs .
" you will see with your own eyes and judge for yourself . "
the telescope , a formidable instrument mounted upon a tripod , stood upon the flat leads of the house .
frankland clapped his eye to it and gave a cry of satisfaction .
" quick , dr. watson , quick , before he passes over the hill ! "
there he was , sure enough , a small urchin with a little bundle upon his shoulder , toiling slowly up the hill .
when he reached the crest i saw the ragged uncouth figure outlined for an instant against the cold blue sky .
he looked round him with a furtive and stealthy air , as one who dreads pursuit .
then he vanished over the hill .
" well ! am i right ? "
" certainly , there is a boy who seems to have some secret errand . "
" and what the errand is even a county constable could guess .
but not one word shall they have from me , and i bind you to secrecy also , dr. watson .
not a word !
you understand ! "
" just as you wish . "
" they have treated me shamefully--shamefully .
when the facts come out in frankland v. regina i venture to think that a thrill of indignation will run through the country .
nothing would induce me to help the police in any way .
for all they cared it might have been me , instead of my effigy , which these rascals burned at the stake .
surely you are not going !
you will help me to empty the decanter in honour of this great occasion ! "
but i resisted all his solicitations and succeeded in dissuading him from his announced intention of walking home with me .
i kept the road as long as his eye was on me , and then i struck off across the moor and made for the stony hill over which the boy had disappeared .
everything was working in my favour , and i swore that it should not be through lack of energy or perseverance that i should miss the chance which fortune had thrown in my way .
the sun was already sinking when i reached the summit of the hill , and the long slopes beneath me were all golden-green on one side and gray shadow on the other .
a haze lay low upon the farthest sky-line , out of which jutted the fantastic shapes of belliver and vixen tor .
over the wide expanse there was no sound and no movement .
one great gray bird , a gull or curlew , soared aloft in the blue heaven .
he and i seemed to be the only living things between the huge arch of the sky and the desert beneath it .
the barren scene , the sense of loneliness , and the mystery and urgency of my task all struck a chill into my heart .
the boy was nowhere to be seen .
but down beneath me in a cleft of the hills there was a circle of the old stone huts , and in the middle of them there was one which retained sufficient roof to act as a screen against the weather .
my heart leaped within me as i saw it .
this must be the burrow where the stranger lurked .
at last my foot was on the threshold of his hiding place--his secret was within my grasp .
as i approached the hut , walking as warily as stapleton would do when with poised net he drew near the settled butterfly , i satisfied myself that the place had indeed been used as a habitation .
a vague pathway among the boulders led to the dilapidated opening which served as a door .
all was silent within .
the unknown might be lurking there , or he might be prowling on the moor .
my nerves tingled with the sense of adventure .
throwing aside my cigarette , i closed my hand upon the butt of my revolver and , walking swiftly up to the door , i looked in .
the place was empty .
but there were ample signs that i had not come upon a false scent .
this was certainly where the man lived .
some blankets rolled in a waterproof lay upon that very stone slab upon which neolithic man had once slumbered .
the ashes of a fire were heaped in a rude grate . beside it lay some cooking utensils and a bucket half-full of water .
a litter of empty tins showed that the place had been occupied for some time , and i saw , as my eyes became accustomed to the checkered light , a pannikin and a half-full bottle of spirits standing in the corner .
in the middle of the hut a flat stone served the purpose of a table , and upon this stood a small cloth bundle--the same , no doubt , which i had seen through the telescope upon the shoulder of the boy .
it contained a loaf of bread , a tinned tongue , and two tins of preserved peaches .
as i set it down again , after having examined it , my heart leaped to see that beneath it there lay a sheet of paper with writing upon it .
i raised it , and this was what i read , roughly scrawled in pencil : --
dr. watson has gone to coombe tracey .
for a minute i stood there with the paper in my hands thinking out the meaning of this curt message .
it was i , then , and not sir henry , who was being dogged by this secret man .
he had not followed me himself , but he had set an agent--the boy , perhaps--upon my track , and this was his report .
possibly i had taken no step since i had been upon the moor which had not been observed and reported .
always there was this feeling of an unseen force , a fine net drawn round us with infinite skill and delicacy , holding us so lightly that it was only at some supreme moment that one realized that one was indeed entangled in its meshes .
if there was one report there might be others , so i looked round the hut in search of them .
there was no trace , however , of anything of the kind , nor could i discover any sign which might indicate the character or intentions of the man who lived in this singular place , save that he must be of spartan habits and cared little for the comforts of life .
when i thought of the heavy rains and looked at the gaping roof i understood how strong and immutable must be the purpose which had kept him in that inhospitable abode .
was he our malignant enemy , or was he by chance our guardian angel ?
i swore that i would not leave the hut until i knew .
outside the sun was sinking low and the west was blazing with scarlet and gold . its reflection was shot back in ruddy patches by the distant pools which lay amid the great grimpen mire .
there were the two towers of baskerville hall , and there a distant blur of smoke which marked the village of grimpen .
between the two , behind the hill , was the house of the stapletons .
all was sweet and mellow and peaceful in the golden evening light , and yet as i looked at them my soul shared none of the peace of nature but quivered at the vagueness and the terror of that interview which every instant was bringing nearer .
with tingling nerves , but a fixed purpose , i sat in the dark recess of the hut and waited with sombre patience for the coming of its tenant .
and then at last i heard him .
far away came the sharp clink of a boot striking upon a stone . then another and yet another , coming nearer and nearer .
i shrank back into the darkest corner , and cocked the pistol in my pocket , determined not to discover myself until i had an opportunity of seeing something of the stranger .
there was a long pause which showed that he had stopped .
then once more the footsteps approached and a shadow fell across the opening of the hut .
" it is a lovely evening , my dear watson , " said a well-known voice .
" i really think that you will be more comfortable outside than in . "
chapter 12 death on the moor
for a moment or two i sat breathless , hardly able to believe my ears .
then my senses and my voice came back to me , while a crushing weight of responsibility seemed in an instant to be lifted from my soul .
that cold , incisive , ironical voice could belong to but one man in all the world .
" holmes ! "
i cried-- " holmes ! "
" come out , " said he , " and please be careful with the revolver . "
i stooped under the rude lintel , and there he sat upon a stone outside , his gray eyes dancing with amusement as they fell upon my astonished features .
he was thin and worn , but clear and alert , his keen face bronzed by the sun and roughened by the wind .
in his tweed suit and cloth cap he looked like any other tourist upon the moor , and he had contrived , with that cat-like love of personal cleanliness which was one of his characteristics , that his chin should be as smooth and his linen as perfect as if he were in baker street .
" i never was more glad to see anyone in my life , " said i , as i wrung him by the hand .
" or more astonished , eh ? "
" well , i must confess to it . "
" the surprise was not all on one side , i assure you .
i had no idea that you had found my occasional retreat , still less that you were inside it , until i was within twenty paces of the door . "
" my footprint , i presume ? "
" no , watson ; i fear that i could not undertake to recognize your footprint amid all the footprints of the world .
if you seriously desire to deceive me you must change your tobacconist ; for when i see the stub of a cigarette marked bradley , oxford street , i know that my friend watson is in the neighbourhood .
you will see it there beside the path .
you threw it down , no doubt , at that supreme moment when you charged into the empty hut . "
" exactly . "
" i thought as much--and knowing your admirable tenacity i was convinced that you were sitting in ambush , a weapon within reach , waiting for the tenant to return .
so you actually thought that i was the criminal ? "
" i did not know who you were , but i was determined to find out . "
" excellent , watson !
and how did you localize me ?
you saw me , perhaps , on the night of the convict hunt , when i was so imprudent as to allow the moon to rise behind me ? "
" yes , i saw you then . "
" and have no doubt searched all the huts until you came to this one ? "
" no , your boy had been observed , and that gave me a guide where to look . "
" the old gentleman with the telescope , no doubt .
i could not make it out when first i saw the light flashing upon the lens . " he rose and peeped into the hut .
" ha , i see that cartwright has brought up some supplies .
what 's this paper ?
so you have been to coombe tracey , have you ? "
" yes . "
" to see mrs. laura lyons ? "
" exactly . "
" well done !
our researches have evidently been running on parallel lines , and when we unite our results i expect we shall have a fairly full knowledge of the case . "
" well , i am glad from my heart that you are here , for indeed the responsibility and the mystery were both becoming too much for my nerves .
but how in the name of wonder did you come here , and what have you been doing ?
i thought that you were in baker street working out that case of blackmailing . "
" that was what i wished you to think . "
" then you use me , and yet do not trust me ! " i cried with some bitterness .
" i think that i have deserved better at your hands , holmes . "
" my dear fellow , you have been invaluable to me in this as in many other cases , and i beg that you will forgive me if i have seemed to play a trick upon you .
in truth , it was partly for your own sake that i did it , and it was my appreciation of the danger which you ran which led me to come down and examine the matter for myself .
had i been with sir henry and you it is confident that my point of view would have been the same as yours , and my presence would have warned our very formidable opponents to be on their guard .
as it is , i have been able to get about as i could not possibly have done had i been living in the hall , and i remain an unknown factor in the business , ready to throw in all my weight at a critical moment . "
" but why keep me in the dark ? "
" for you to know could not have helped us , and might possibly have led to my discovery .
you would have wished to tell me something , or in your kindness you would have brought me out some comfort or other , and so an unnecessary risk would be run .
i brought cartwright down with me--you remember the little chap at the express office--and he has seen after my simple wants : a loaf of bread and a clean collar .
what does man want more ?
he has given me an extra pair of eyes upon a very active pair of feet , and both have been invaluable . "
" then my reports have all been wasted ! " --my voice trembled as i recalled the pains and the pride with which i had composed them .
holmes took a bundle of papers from his pocket .
" here are your reports , my dear fellow , and very well thumbed , i assure you .
i made excellent arrangements , and they are only delayed one day upon their way .
i must compliment you exceedingly upon the zeal and the intelligence which you have shown over an extraordinarily difficult case . "
i was still rather raw over the deception which had been practised upon me , but the warmth of holmes 's praise drove my anger from my mind .
i felt also in my heart that he was right in what he said and that it was really best for our purpose that i should not have known that he was upon the moor .
" that 's better , " said he , seeing the shadow rise from my face .
" and now tell me the result of your visit to mrs. laura lyons--it was not difficult for me to guess that it was to see her that you had gone , for i am already aware that she is the one person in coombe tracey who might be of service to us in the matter .
in fact , if you had not gone to-day it is exceedingly probable that i should have gone to-morrow . "
the sun had set and dusk was settling over the moor .
the air had turned chill and we withdrew into the hut for warmth .
there , sitting together in the twilight , i told holmes of my conversation with the lady .
so interested was he that i had to repeat some of it twice before he was satisfied .
" this is most important , " said he when i had concluded . " it fills up a gap which i had been unable to bridge , in this most complex affair .
you are aware , perhaps , that a close intimacy exists between this lady and the man stapleton ? "
" i did not know of a close intimacy . "
" there can be no doubt about the matter .
they meet , they write , there is a complete understanding between them .
now , this puts a very powerful weapon into our hands .
if i could only use it to detach his wife---- "
" his wife ? "
" i am giving you some information now , in return for all that you have given me .
the lady who has passed here as miss stapleton is in reality his wife . "
" good heavens , holmes !
are you sure of what you say ?
how could he have permitted sir henry to fall in love with her ? "
" sir henry 's falling in love could do no harm to anyone except sir henry .
he took particular care that sir henry did not make love to her , as you have yourself observed .
i repeat that the lady is his wife and not his sister . "
" but why this elaborate deception ? "
" because he foresaw that she would be very much more useful to him in the character of a free woman . "
all my unspoken instincts , my vague suspicions , suddenly took shape and centred upon the naturalist .
in that impassive , colourless man , with his straw hat and his butterfly-net , i seemed to see something terrible--a creature of infinite patience and craft , with a smiling face and a murderous heart .
" it is he , then , who is our enemy--it is he who dogged us in london ? "
" so i read the riddle . "
" and the warning--it must have come from her ! "
" exactly . "
the shape of some monstrous villainy , half seen , half guessed , loomed through the darkness which had girt me so long .
" but are you sure of this , holmes ?
how do you know that the woman is his wife ? "
" because he so far forgot himself as to tell you a true piece of autobiography upon the occasion when he first met you , and i dare say he has many a time regretted it since .
he was once a schoolmaster in the north of england .
now , there is no one more easy to trace than a schoolmaster .
there are scholastic agencies by which one may identify any man who has been in the profession .
a little investigation showed me that a school had come to grief under atrocious circumstances , and that the man who had owned it--the name was different--had disappeared with his wife .
the descriptions agreed .
when i learned that the missing man was devoted to entomology the identification was complete . "
the darkness was rising , but much was still hidden by the shadows .
" if this woman is in truth his wife , where does mrs. laura lyons come in ? " i asked .
" that is one of the points upon which your own researches have shed a light .
your interview with the lady has cleared the situation very much .
i did not know about a projected divorce between herself and her husband .
in that case , regarding stapleton as an unmarried man , she counted no doubt upon becoming his wife . "
" and when she is undeceived ? "
" why , then we may find the lady of service .
it must be our first duty to see her--both of us--to-morrow .
don 't you think , watson , that you are away from your charge rather long ?
your place should be at baskerville hall . "
the last red streaks had faded away in the west and night had settled upon the moor .
a few faint stars were gleaming in a violet sky .
" one last question , holmes , " i said , as i rose .
" surely there is no need of secrecy between you and me .
what is the meaning of it all ?
what is he after ? "
holmes 's voice sank as he answered : ----
" it is murder , watson--refined , cold-blooded , deliberate murder .
do not ask me for particulars .
my nets are closing upon him , even as his are upon sir henry , and with your help he is already almost at my mercy .
there is but one danger which can threaten us .
it is that he should strike before we are ready to do so .
another day--two at the most--and i have my case complete , but until then guard your charge as closely as ever a fond mother watched her ailing child .
your mission to-day has justified itself , and yet i could almost wish that you had not left his side . hark ! "
a terrible scream--a prolonged yell of horror and anguish--burst out of the silence of the moor . that frightful cry turned the blood to ice in my veins .
" oh , my god ! " i gasped .
" what is it ?
what does it mean ? "
holmes had sprung to his feet , and i saw his dark , athletic outline at the door of the hut , his shoulders stooping , his head thrust forward , his face peering into the darkness .
" hush ! " he whispered . " hush ! "
the cry had been loud on account of its vehemence , but it had pealed out from somewhere far off on the shadowy plain .
now it burst upon our ears , nearer , louder , more urgent than before .
" where is it ? "
holmes whispered ; and i knew from the thrill of his voice that he , the man of iron , was shaken to the soul .
" where is it , watson ? "
" there , i think . " i pointed into the darkness .
" no , there ! "
again the agonized cry swept through the silent night , louder and much nearer than ever .
and a new sound mingled with it , a deep , muttered rumble , musical and yet menacing , rising and falling like the low , constant murmur of the sea .
" the hound ! " cried holmes .
" come , watson , come !
great heavens , if we are too late ! "
he had started running swiftly over the moor , and i had followed at his heels .
but now from somewhere among the broken ground immediately in front of us there came one last despairing yell , and then a dull , heavy thud .
we halted and listened .
not another sound broke the heavy silence of the windless night .
i saw holmes put his hand to his forehead like a man distracted .
he stamped his feet upon the ground .
" he has beaten us , watson .
we are too late . "
" no , no , surely not ! "
" fool that i was to hold my hand .
and you , watson , see what comes of abandoning your charge !
but , by heaven , if the worst has happened , we 'll avenge him ! "
blindly we ran through the gloom , blundering against boulders , forcing our way through gorse bushes , panting up hills and rushing down slopes , heading always in the direction whence those dreadful sounds had come .
at every rise holmes looked eagerly round him , but the shadows were thick upon the moor , and nothing moved upon its dreary face .
" can you see anything ? "
" nothing . "
" but , hark , what is that ? "
a low moan had fallen upon our ears .
there it was again upon our left ! on that side a ridge of rocks ended in a sheer cliff which overlooked a stone-strewn slope .
on its jagged face was spread-eagled some dark , irregular object .
as we ran towards it the vague outline hardened into a definite shape . it was a prostrate man face downward upon the ground , the head doubled under him at a horrible angle , the shoulders rounded and the body hunched together as if in the act of throwing a somersault .
so grotesque was the attitude that i could not for the instant realize that that moan had been the passing of his soul .
not a whisper , not a rustle , rose now from the dark figure over which we stooped .
holmes laid his hand upon him , and held it up again , with an exclamation of horror .
the gleam of the match which he struck shone upon his clotted fingers and upon the ghastly pool which widened slowly from the crushed skull of the victim .
and it shone upon something else which turned our hearts sick and faint within us--the body of sir henry baskerville !
there was no chance of either of us forgetting that peculiar ruddy tweed suit--the very one which he had worn on the first morning that we had seen him in baker street .
we caught the one clear glimpse of it , and then the match flickered and went out , even as the hope had gone out of our souls .
holmes groaned , and his face glimmered white through the darkness .
" the brute ! the brute ! "
i cried with clenched hands .
" oh holmes , i shall never forgive myself for having left him to his fate . "
" i am more to blame than you , watson .
in order to have my case well rounded and complete , i have thrown away the life of my client .
it is the greatest blow which has befallen me in my career .
but how could i know--how could l know--that he would risk his life alone upon the moor in the face of all my warnings ? "
" that we should have heard his screams--my god , those screams ! --and yet have been unable to save him !
where is this brute of a hound which drove him to his death ?
it may be lurking among these rocks at this instant . and stapleton , where is he ?
he shall answer for this deed . "
" he shall .
i will see to that .
uncle and nephew have been murdered--the one frightened to death by the very sight of a beast which he thought to be supernatural , the other driven to his end in his wild flight to escape from it .
but now we have to prove the connection between the man and the beast .
save from what we heard , we cannot even swear to the existence of the latter , since sir henry has evidently died from the fall .
but , by heavens , cunning as he is , the fellow shall be in my power before another day is past ! "
we stood with bitter hearts on either side of the mangled body , overwhelmed by this sudden and irrevocable disaster which had brought all our long and weary labours to so piteous an end .
then , as the moon rose we climbed to the top of the rocks over which our poor friend had fallen , and from the summit we gazed out over the shadowy moor , half silver and half gloom .
far away , miles off , in the direction of grimpen , a single steady yellow light was shining . it could only come from the lonely abode of the stapletons .
with a bitter curse i shook my fist at it as i gazed .
" why should we not seize him at once ? "
" our case is not complete .
the fellow is wary and cunning to the last degree .
it is not what we know , but what we can prove .
if we make one false move the villain may escape us yet . "
" what can we do ? "
" there will be plenty for us to do to-morrow .
to-night we can only perform the last offices to our poor friend . "
together we made our way down the precipitous slope and approached the body , black and clear against the silvered stones .
the agony of those contorted limbs struck me with a spasm of pain and blurred my eyes with tears .
" we must send for help , holmes !
we cannot carry him all the way to the hall .
good heavens , are you mad ? "
he had uttered a cry and bent over the body . now he was dancing and laughing and wringing my hand .
could this be my stern , self-contained friend ?
these were hidden fires , indeed !
" a beard ! a beard !
the man has a beard ! "
" it is not the baronet--it is--why , it is my neighbour , the convict ! "
with feverish haste we had turned the body over , and that dripping beard was pointing up to the cold , clear moon .
there could be no doubt about the beetling forehead , the sunken animal eyes . it was indeed the same face which had glared upon me in the light of the candle from over the rock--the face of selden , the criminal .
then in an instant it was all clear to me .
i remembered how the baronet had told me that he had handed his old wardrobe to barrymore .
barrymore had passed it on in order to help selden in his escape .
boots , shirt , cap--it was all sir henry 's .
the tragedy was still black enough , but this man had at least deserved death by the laws of his country .
i told holmes how the matter stood , my heart bubbling over with thankfulness and joy .
" then the clothes have been the poor devil 's death , " said he .
" it is clear enough that the hound has been laid on from some article of sir henry 's--the boot which was abstracted in the hotel , in all probability--and so ran this man down .
there is one very singular thing , however : how came selden , in the darkness , to know that the hound was on his trail ? "
" he heard him . "
" to hear a hound upon the moor would not work a hard man like this convict into such a paroxysm of terror that he would risk recapture by screaming wildly for help .
by his cries he must have run a long way after he knew the animal was on his track .
how did he know ? "
" a greater mystery to me is why this hound , presuming that all our conjectures are correct -- "
" i presume nothing . "
" well , then , why this hound should be loose to-night .
i suppose that it does not always run loose upon the moor .
stapleton would not let it go unless he had reason to think that sir henry would be there . "
" my difficulty is the more formidable of the two , for i think that we shall very shortly get an explanation of yours , while mine may remain forever a mystery .
the question now is , what shall we do with this poor wretch 's body ?
we cannot leave it here to the foxes and the ravens . "
" i suggest that we put it in one of the huts until we can communicate with the police . "
" exactly .
i have no doubt that you and i could carry it so far .
halloa , watson , what 's this ?
it 's the man himself , by all that 's wonderful and audacious !
not a word to show your suspicions--not a word , or my plans crumble to the ground . "
a figure was approaching us over the moor , and i saw the dull red glow of a cigar .
the moon shone upon him , and i could distinguish the dapper shape and jaunty walk of the naturalist .
he stopped when he saw us , and then came on again .
" why , dr. watson , that 's not you , is it ?
you are the last man that i should have expected to see out on the moor at this time of night .
but , dear me , what 's this ?
somebody hurt ?
not--don 't tell me that it is our friend sir henry ! "
he hurried past me and stooped over the dead man .
i heard a sharp intake of his breath and the cigar fell from his fingers .
" who--who 's this ? " he stammered .
" it is selden , the man who escaped from princetown . "
stapleton turned a ghastly face upon us , but by a supreme effort he had overcome his amazement and his disappointment .
he looked sharply from holmes to me .
" dear me !
what a very shocking affair !
how did he die ? "
" he appears to have broken his neck by falling over these rocks .
my friend and i were strolling on the moor when we heard a cry . "
" i heard a cry also .
that was what brought me out .
i was uneasy about sir henry . "
" why about sir henry in particular ? " i could not help asking .
" because i had suggested that he should come over .
when he did not come i was surprised , and i naturally became alarmed for his safety when i heard cries upon the moor .
by the way " --his eyes darted again from my face to holmes 's-- " did you hear anything else besides a cry ? "
" no , " said holmes ; " did you ? "
" no . "
" what do you mean , then ? "
" oh , you know the stories that the peasants tell about a phantom hound , and so on .
it is said to be heard at night upon the moor .
i was wondering if there were any evidence of such a sound to-night . "
" we heard nothing of the kind , " said i .
" and what is your theory of this poor fellow 's death ? "
" i have no doubt that anxiety and exposure have driven him off his head .
he has rushed about the moor in a crazy state and eventually fallen over here and broken his neck . "
" that seems the most reasonable theory , " said stapleton , and he gave a sigh which i took to indicate his relief .
" what do you think about it , mr. sherlock holmes ? "
my friend bowed his compliments .
" you are quick at identification , " said he .
" we have been expecting you in these parts since dr. watson came down .
you are in time to see a tragedy . "
" yes , indeed .
i have no doubt that my friend 's explanation will cover the facts .
i will take an unpleasant remembrance back to london with me to-morrow . "
" oh , you return to-morrow ? "
" that is my intention . "
" i hope your visit has cast some light upon those occurrences which have puzzled us ? "
holmes shrugged his shoulders .
" one cannot always have the success for which one hopes .
an investigator needs facts , and not legends or rumours .
it has not been a satisfactory case . "
my friend spoke in his frankest and most unconcerned manner .
stapleton still looked hard at him .
then he turned to me .
" i would suggest carrying this poor fellow to my house , but it would give my sister such a fright that i do not feel justified in doing it .
i think that if we put something over his face he will be safe until morning . "
and so it was arranged .
resisting stapleton 's offer of hospitality , holmes and i set off to baskerville hall , leaving the naturalist to return alone .
looking back we saw the figure moving slowly away over the broad moor , and behind him that one black smudge on the silvered slope which showed where the man was lying who had come so horribly to his end . chapter 13 fixing the nets
" we 're at close grips at last , " said holmes as we walked together across the moor .
" what a nerve the fellow has !
how he pulled himself together in the face of what must have been a paralyzing shock when he found that the wrong man had fallen a victim to his plot .
i told you in london , watson , and i tell you now again , that we have never had a foeman more worthy of our steel . "
" i am sorry that he has seen you . "
" and so was i at first .
but there was no getting out of it . "
" what effect do you think it will have upon his plans now that he knows you are here ? "
" it may cause him to be more cautious , or it may drive him to desperate measures at once .
like most clever criminals , he may be too confident in his own cleverness and imagine that he has completely deceived us . "
" why should we not arrest him at once ? "
" my dear watson , you were born to be a man of action .
your instinct is always to do something energetic .
but supposing , for argument 's sake , that we had him arrested to-night , what on earth the better off should we be for that ?
we could prove nothing against him .
there 's the devilish cunning of it !
if he were acting through a human agent we could get some evidence , but if we were to drag this great dog to the light of day it would not help us in putting a rope round the neck of its master . "
" surely we have a case . "
" not a shadow of one--only surmise and conjecture .
we should be laughed out of court if we came with such a story and such evidence . "
" there is sir charles 's death . "
" found dead without a mark upon him .
you and i know that he died of sheer fright , and we know also what frightened him ; but how are we to get twelve stolid jurymen to know it ?
what signs are there of a hound ?
where are the marks of its fangs ?
of course we know that a hound does not bite a dead body and that sir charles was dead before ever the brute overtook him .
but we have to prove all this , and we are not in a position to do it . "
" well , then , to-night ? "
" we are not much better off to-night .
again , there was no direct connection between the hound and the man 's death .
we never saw the hound .
we heard it ; but we could not prove that it was running upon this man 's trail .
there is a complete absence of motive . no , my dear fellow ; we must reconcile ourselves to the fact that we have no case at present , and that it is worth our while to run any risk in order to establish one . "
" and how do you propose to do so ? "
" i have great hopes of what mrs. laura lyons may do for us when the position of affairs is made clear to her .
and i have my own plan as well .
sufficient for to-morrow is the evil thereof ; but i hope before the day is past to have the upper hand at last . "
i could draw nothing further from him , and he walked , lost in thought , as far as the baskerville gates .
" are you coming up ? "
" yes ; i see no reason for further concealment .
but one last word , watson .
say nothing of the hound to sir henry .
let him think that selden 's death was as stapleton would have us believe .
he will have a better nerve for the ordeal which he will have to undergo to-morrow , when he is engaged , if i remember your report aright , to dine with these people . "
" and so am i. "
" then you must excuse yourself and he must go alone .
that will be easily arranged .
and now , if we are too late for dinner , i think that we are both ready for our suppers . "
sir henry was more pleased than surprised to see sherlock holmes , for he had for some days been expecting that recent events would bring him down from london .
he did raise his eyebrows , however , when he found that my friend had neither any luggage nor any explanations for its absence .
between us we soon supplied his wants , and then over a belated supper we explained to the baronet as much of our experience as it seemed desirable that he should know .
but first i had the unpleasant duty of breaking the news to barrymore and his wife .
to him it may have been an unmitigated relief , but she wept bitterly in her apron .
to all the world he was the man of violence , half animal and half demon ; but to her he always remained the little wilful boy of her own girlhood , the child who had clung to her hand .
evil indeed is the man who has not one woman to mourn him .
" i 've been moping in the house all day since watson went off in the morning , " said the baronet .
" i guess i should have some credit , for i have kept my promise .
if i hadn 't sworn not to go about alone i might have had a more lively evening , for i had a message from stapleton asking me over there . "
" i have no doubt that you would have had a more lively evening , " said holmes drily .
" by the way , i don 't suppose you appreciate that we have been mourning over you as having broken your neck ? "
sir henry opened his eyes .
" how was that ? "
" this poor wretch was dressed in your clothes .
i fear your servant who gave them to him may get into trouble with the police . "
" that is unlikely .
there was no mark on any of them , as far as i know . "
" that 's lucky for him--in fact , it 's lucky for all of you , since you are all on the wrong side of the law in this matter .
i am not sure that as a conscientious detective my first duty is not to arrest the whole household .
watson 's reports are most incriminating documents . "
" but how about the case ? " asked the baronet . " have you made anything out of the tangle ?
i don 't know that watson and i are much the wiser since we came down . "
" i think that i shall be in a position to make the situation rather more clear to you before long .
it has been an exceedingly difficult and most complicated business .
there are several points upon which we still want light--but it is coming all the same . "
" we 've had one experience , as watson has no doubt told you .
we heard the hound on the moor , so i can swear that it is not all empty superstition .
i had something to do with dogs when i was out west , and i know one when i hear one .
if you can muzzle that one and put him on a chain i 'll be ready to swear you are the greatest detective of all time . "
" i think i will muzzle him and chain him all right if you will give me your help . "
" whatever you tell me to do i will do . "
" very good ; and i will ask you also to do it blindly , without always asking the reason . "
" just as you like . "
" if you will do this i think the chances are that our little problem will soon be solved .
i have no doubt---- "
he stopped suddenly and stared fixedly up over my head into the air .
the lamp beat upon his face , and so intent was it and so still that it might have been that of a clear-cut classical statue , a personification of alertness and expectation .
" what is it ? " we both cried .
i could see as he looked down that he was repressing some internal emotion .
his features were still composed , but his eyes shone with amused exultation .
" excuse the admiration of a connoisseur , " said he as he waved his hand towards the line of portraits which covered the opposite wall .
" watson won 't allow that i know anything of art , but that is mere jealousy , because our views upon the subject differ .
now , these are a really very fine series of portraits . "
" well , i 'm glad to hear you say so , " said sir henry , glancing with some surprise at my friend .
" i don 't pretend to know much about these things , and i 'd be a better judge of a horse or a steer than of a picture .
i didn 't know that you found time for such things . "
" i know what is good when i see it , and i see it now .
that 's a kneller , i 'll swear , that lady in the blue silk over yonder , and the stout gentleman with the wig ought to be a reynolds .
they are all family portraits , i presume ? "
" every one . "
" do you know the names ? "
" barrymore has been coaching me in them , and i think i can say my lessons fairly well . "
" who is the gentleman with the telescope ? "
" that is rear-admiral baskerville , who served under rodney in the west indies .
the man with the blue coat and the roll of paper is sir william baskerville , who was chairman of committees of the house of commons under pitt . "
" and this cavalier opposite to me--the one with the black velvet and the lace ? "
" ah , you have a right to know about him .
that is the cause of all the mischief , the wicked hugo , who started the hound of the baskervilles .
we 're not likely to forget him . "
i gazed with interest and some surprise upon the portrait .
" dear me ! " said holmes , " he seems a quiet , meek-mannered man enough , but i dare say that there was a lurking devil in his eyes .
i had pictured him as a more robust and ruffianly person . "
" there 's no doubt about the authenticity , for the name and the date , 1647 , are on the back of the canvas . "
holmes said little more , but the picture of the old roysterer seemed to have a fascination for him , and his eyes were continually fixed upon it during supper .
it was not until later , when sir henry had gone to his room , that i was able to follow the trend of his thoughts .
he led me back into the banqueting-hall , his bedroom candle in his hand , and he held it up against the time-stained portrait on the wall .
" do you see anything there ? "
i looked at the broad plumed hat , the curling love-locks , the white lace collar , and the straight , severe face which was framed between them .
it was not a brutal countenance , but it was prim , hard , and stern , with a firm-set , thin-lipped mouth , and a coldly intolerant eye .
" is it like anyone you know ? "
" there is something of sir henry about the jaw . "
" just a suggestion , perhaps .
but wait an instant ! "
he stood upon a chair , and , holding up the light in his left hand , he curved his right arm over the broad hat and round the long ringlets .
" good heavens ! " i cried , in amazement .
the face of stapleton had sprung out of the canvas .
" ha , you see it now .
my eyes have been trained to examine faces and not their trimmings .
it is the first quality of a criminal investigator that he should see through a disguise . "
" but this is marvellous .
it might be his portrait . "
" yes , it is an interesting instance of a throwback , which appears to be both physical and spiritual .
a study of family portraits is enough to convert a man to the doctrine of reincarnation .
the fellow is a baskerville--that is evident . "
" with designs upon the succession . "
" exactly .
this chance of the picture has supplied us with one of our most obvious missing links .
we have him , watson , we have him , and i dare swear that before to-morrow night he will be fluttering in our net as helpless as one of his own butterflies .
a pin , a cork , and a card , and we add him to the baker street collection ! "
he burst into one of his rare fits of laughter as he turned away from the picture .
i have not heard him laugh often , and it has always boded ill to somebody .
i was up betimes in the morning , but holmes was afoot earlier still , for i saw him as i dressed , coming up the drive .
" yes , we should have a full day to-day , " he remarked , and he rubbed his hands with the joy of action .
" the nets are all in place , and the drag is about to begin .
we 'll know before the day is out whether we have caught our big , lean-jawed pike , or whether he has got through the meshes . "
" have you been on the moor already ? "
" i have sent a report from grimpen to princetown as to the death of selden .
i think i can promise that none of you will be troubled in the matter .
and i have also communicated with my faithful cartwright , who would certainly have pined away at the door of my hut , as a dog does at his master 's grave , if i had not set his mind at rest about my safety . "
" what is the next move ? "
" to see sir henry .
ah , here he is ! "
" good morning , holmes , " said the baronet .
" you look like a general who is planning a battle with his chief of the staff . "
" that is the exact situation .
watson was asking for orders . "
" and so do i. "
" very good .
you are engaged , as i understand , to dine with our friends the stapletons to-night . "
" i hope that you will come also .
they are very hospitable people , and i am sure that they would be very glad to see you . "
" i fear that watson and i must go to london . "
" to london ? "
" yes , i think that we should be more useful there at the present juncture . "
the baronet 's face perceptibly lengthened .
" i hoped that you were going to see me through this business .
the hall and the moor are not very pleasant places when one is alone . "
" my dear fellow , you must trust me implicitly and do exactly what i tell you .
you can tell your friends that we should have been happy to have come with you , but that urgent business required us to be in town . we hope very soon to return to devonshire .
will you remember to give them that message ? "
" if you insist upon it . "
" there is no alternative , i assure you . "
i saw by the baronet 's clouded brow that he was deeply hurt by what he regarded as our desertion .
" when do you desire to go ? " he asked coldly .
" immediately after breakfast .
we will drive in to coombe tracey , but watson will leave his things as a pledge that he will come back to you .
watson , you will send a note to stapleton to tell him that you regret that you cannot come . "
" i have a good mind to go to london with you , " said the baronet .
" why should i stay here alone ? "
" because it is your post of duty .
because you gave me your word that you would do as you were told , and i tell you to stay . "
" all right , then , i 'll stay . "
" one more direction ! i wish you to drive to merripit house .
send back your trap , however , and let them know that you intend to walk home . "
" to walk across the moor ? "
" yes . "
" but that is the very thing which you have so often cautioned me not to do . "
" this time you may do it with safety .
if i had not every confidence in your nerve and courage i would not suggest it , but it is essential that you should do it . "
" then i will do it . "
" and as you value your life do not go across the moor in any direction save along the straight path which leads from merripit house to the grimpen road , and is your natural way home . "
" i will do just what you say . "
" very good .
i should be glad to get away as soon after breakfast as possible , so as to reach london in the afternoon . "
i was much astounded by this programme , though i remembered that holmes had said to stapleton on the night before that his visit would terminate next day .
it had not crossed my mind , however , that he would wish me to go with him , nor could i understand how we could both be absent at a moment which he himself declared to be critical .
there was nothing for it , however , but implicit obedience ; so we bade good-bye to our rueful friend , and a couple of hours afterwards we were at the station of coombe tracey and had dispatched the trap upon its return journey .
a small boy was waiting upon the platform .
" any orders , sir ? "
" you will take this train to town , cartwright .
the moment you arrive you will send a wire to sir henry baskerville , in my name , to say that if he finds the pocket-book which i have dropped he is to send it by registered post to baker street . "
" yes , sir . "
" and ask at the station office if there is a message for me . "
the boy returned with a telegram , which holmes handed to me .
it ran : " wire received .
coming down with unsigned warrant . arrive five-forty.--lestrade. "
" that is in answer to mine of this morning .
he is the best of the professionals , i think , and we may need his assistance .
now , watson , i think that we cannot employ our time better than by calling upon your acquaintance , mrs. laura lyons . "
his plan of campaign was beginning to be evident .
he would use the baronet in order to convince the stapletons that we were really gone , while we should actually return at the instant when we were likely to be needed .
that telegram from london , if mentioned by sir henry to the stapletons , must remove the last suspicions from their minds .
already i seemed to see our nets drawing closer around that lean-jawed pike .
mrs. laura lyons was in her office , and sherlock holmes opened his interview with a frankness and directness which considerably amazed her .
" i am investigating the circumstances which attended the death of the late sir charles baskerville , " said he .
" my friend here , dr. watson , has informed me of what you have communicated , and also of what you have withheld in connection with that matter . "
" what have i withheld ? " she asked defiantly .
" you have confessed that you asked sir charles to be at the gate at ten o 'clock .
we know that that was the place and hour of his death .
you have withheld what the connection is between these events . "
" there is no connection . "
" in that case the coincidence must indeed be an extraordinary one .
but i think that we shall succeed in establishing a connection after all .
i wish to be perfectly frank with you , mrs. lyons .
we regard this case as one of murder , and the evidence may implicate not only your friend mr. stapleton , but his wife as well . "
the lady sprang from her chair .
" his wife ! " she said again .
" his wife !
he is not a married man . "
sherlock holmes shrugged his shoulders .
" prove it to me ! prove it to me !
and if you can do so -- ! " the fierce flash of her eyes said more than any words .
" i have come prepared to do so , " said holmes , drawing several papers from his pocket .
" here is a photograph of the couple taken in york four years ago .
it is indorsed ' mr. and mrs. vandeleur , ' but you will have no difficulty in recognizing him , and her also , if you know her by sight .
here are three written descriptions by trustworthy witnesses of mr. and mrs. vandeleur , who at that time kept st. oliver 's private school .
read them and see if you can doubt the identity of these people . "
she glanced at them , and then looked up at us with the set , rigid face of a desperate woman .
" mr. holmes , " she said , " this man had offered me marriage on condition that i could get a divorce from my husband .
he has lied to me , the villain , in every conceivable way .
not one word of truth has he ever told me .
and why--why ?
i imagined that all was for my own sake .
but now i see that i was never anything but a tool in his hands .
why should i preserve faith with him who never kept any with me ?
why should i try to shield him from the consequences of his own wicked acts ?
ask me what you like , and there is nothing which i shall hold back .
one thing i swear to you , and that is that when i wrote the letter i never dreamed of any harm to the old gentleman , who had been my kindest friend . "
" i entirely believe you , madam , " said sherlock holmes .
" the recital of these events must be very painful to you , and perhaps it will make it easier if i tell you what occurred , and you can check me if i make any material mistake .
the sending of this letter was suggested to you by stapleton ? "
" he dictated it . "
" i presume that the reason he gave was that you would receive help from sir charles for the legal expenses connected with your divorce ? "
" exactly . "
" and then after you had sent the letter he dissuaded you from keeping the appointment ? "
" he told me that it would hurt his self-respect that any other man should find the money for such an object , and that though he was a poor man himself he would devote his last penny to removing the obstacles which divided us . "
" he appears to be a very consistent character .
and then you heard nothing until you read the reports of the death in the paper ? "
" no . "
" and he made you swear to say nothing about your appointment with sir charles ? "
" he did .
he said that the death was a very mysterious one , and that i should certainly be suspected if the facts came out .
he frightened me into remaining silent . "
" quite so .
but you had your suspicions ? "
she hesitated and looked down .
" i knew him , " she said .
" but if he had kept faith with me i should always have done so with him . "
" i think that on the whole you have had a fortunate escape , " said sherlock holmes .
" you have had him in your power and he knew it , and yet you are alive .
you have been walking for some months very near to the edge of a precipice .
we must wish you good-morning now , mrs. lyons , and it is probable that you will very shortly hear from us again . "
" our case becomes rounded off , and difficulty after difficulty thins away in front of us , " said holmes as we stood waiting for the arrival of the express from town .
" i shall soon be in the position of being able to put into a single connected narrative one of the most singular and sensational crimes of modern times .
students of criminology will remember the analogous incidents in godno , in little russia , in the year ' 66 , and of course there are the anderson murders in north carolina , but this case possesses some features which are entirely its own .
even now we have no clear case against this very wily man .
but i shall be very much surprised if it is not clear enough before we go to bed this night . "
the london express came roaring into the station , and a small , wiry bulldog of a man had sprung from a first-class carriage .
we all three shook hands , and i saw at once from the reverential way in which lestrade gazed at my companion that he had learned a good deal since the days when they had first worked together .
i could well remember the scorn which the theories of the reasoner used then to excite in the practical man .
" anything good ? " he asked .
" the biggest thing for years , " said holmes .
" we have two hours before we need think of starting .
i think we might employ it in getting some dinner and then , lestrade , we will take the london fog out of your throat by giving you a breath of the pure night air of dartmoor .
never been there ?
ah , well , i don 't suppose you will forget your first visit . "
chapter 14 the hound of the baskervilles
one of sherlock holmes 's defects--if , indeed , one may call it a defect--was that he was exceedingly loath to communicate his full plans to any other person until the instant of their fulfilment .
partly it came no doubt from his own masterful nature , which loved to dominate and surprise those who were around him .
partly also from his professional caution , which urged him never to take any chances .
the result , however , was very trying for those who were acting as his agents and assistants .
i had often suffered under it , but never more so than during that long drive in the darkness .
the great ordeal was in front of us ; at last we were about to make our final effort , and yet holmes had said nothing , and i could only surmise what his course of action would be .
my nerves thrilled with anticipation when at last the cold wind upon our faces and the dark , void spaces on either side of the narrow road told me that we were back upon the moor once again .
every stride of the horses and every turn of the wheels was taking us nearer to our supreme adventure .
our conversation was hampered by the presence of the driver of the hired wagonette , so that we were forced to talk of trivial matters when our nerves were tense with emotion and anticipation .
it was a relief to me , after that unnatural restraint , when we at last passed frankland 's house and knew that we were drawing near to the hall and to the scene of action .
we did not drive up to the door but got down near the gate of the avenue .
the wagonette was paid off and ordered to return to coombe tracey forthwith , while we started to walk to merripit house .
" are you armed , lestrade ? "
the little detective smiled .
" as long as i have my trousers i have a hip-pocket , and as long as i have my hip-pocket i have something in it . "
" good !
my friend and i are also ready for emergencies . "
" you 're mighty close about this affair , mr. holmes .
what 's the game now ? "
" a waiting game . "
" my word , it does not seem a very cheerful place , " said the detective with a shiver , glancing round him at the gloomy slopes of the hill and at the huge lake of fog which lay over the grimpen mire .
" i see the lights of a house ahead of us . "
" that is merripit house and the end of our journey .
i must request you to walk on tiptoe and not to talk above a whisper . "
we moved cautiously along the track as if we were bound for the house , but holmes halted us when we were about two hundred yards from it .
" this will do , " said he .
" these rocks upon the right make an admirable screen . "
" we are to wait here ? "
" yes , we shall make our little ambush here .
get into this hollow , lestrade .
you have been inside the house , have you not , watson ?
can you tell the position of the rooms ?
what are those latticed windows at this end ? "
" i think they are the kitchen windows . "
" and the one beyond , which shines so brightly ? "
" that is certainly the dining-room . "
" the blinds are up .
you know the lie of the land best .
creep forward quietly and see what they are doing--but for heaven 's sake don 't let them know that they are watched ! "
i tiptoed down the path and stooped behind the low wall which surrounded the stunted orchard .
creeping in its shadow i reached a point whence i could look straight through the uncurtained window .
there were only two men in the room , sir henry and stapleton .
they sat with their profiles towards me on either side of the round table .
both of them were smoking cigars , and coffee and wine were in front of them .
stapleton was talking with animation , but the baronet looked pale and distrait .
perhaps the thought of that lonely walk across the ill-omened moor was weighing heavily upon his mind .
as i watched them stapleton rose and left the room , while sir henry filled his glass again and leaned back in his chair , puffing at his cigar .
i heard the creak of a door and the crisp sound of boots upon gravel .
the steps passed along the path on the other side of the wall under which i crouched .
looking over , i saw the naturalist pause at the door of an out-house in the corner of the orchard .
a key turned in a lock , and as he passed in there was a curious scuffling noise from within .
he was only a minute or so inside , and then i heard the key turn once more and he passed me and re-entered the house .
i saw him rejoin his guest , and i crept quietly back to where my companions were waiting to tell them what i had seen .
" you say , watson , that the lady is not there ? " holmes asked , when i had finished my report .
" no . "
" where can she be , then , since there is no light in any other room except the kitchen ? "
" i cannot think where she is . "
i have said that over the great grimpen mire there hung a dense , white fog .
it was drifting slowly in our direction , and banked itself up like a wall on that side of us , low , but thick and well defined .
the moon shone on it , and it looked like a great shimmering ice-field , with the heads of the distant tors as rocks borne upon its surface .
holmes 's face was turned towards it , and he muttered impatiently as he watched its sluggish drift .
" it 's moving towards us , watson . "
" is that serious ? "
" very serious , indeed--the one thing upon earth which could have disarranged my plans .
he can 't be very long , now .
it is already ten o 'clock .
our success and even his life may depend upon his coming out before the fog is over the path . "
the night was clear and fine above us .
the stars shone cold and bright , while a half-moon bathed the whole scene in a soft , uncertain light .
before us lay the dark bulk of the house , its serrated roof and bristling chimneys hard outlined against the silver-spangled sky .
broad bars of golden light from the lower windows stretched across the orchard and the moor .
one of them was suddenly shut off .
the servants had left the kitchen .
there only remained the lamp in the dining-room where the two men , the murderous host and the unconscious guest , still chatted over their cigars .
every minute that white woolly plain which covered one half of the moor was drifting closer and closer to the house .
already the first thin wisps of it were curling across the golden square of the lighted window .
the farther wall of the orchard was already invisible , and the trees were standing out of a swirl of white vapour .
as we watched it the fog-wreaths came crawling round both corners of the house and rolled slowly into one dense bank , on which the upper floor and the roof floated like a strange ship upon a shadowy sea .
holmes struck his hand passionately upon the rock in front of us and stamped his feet in his impatience .
" if he isn 't out in a quarter of an hour the path will be covered . in half an hour we won 't be able to see our hands in front of us . "
" shall we move farther back upon higher ground ? "
" yes , i think it would be as well . "
so as the fog-bank flowed onward we fell back before it until we were half a mile from the house , and still that dense white sea , with the moon silvering its upper edge , swept slowly and inexorably on .
" we are going too far , " said holmes .
" we dare not take the chance of his being overtaken before he can reach us . at all costs we must hold our ground where we are . "
he dropped on his knees and clapped his ear to the ground . " thank god , i think that i hear him coming . "
a sound of quick steps broke the silence of the moor .
crouching among the stones we stared intently at the silver-tipped bank in front of us .
the steps grew louder , and through the fog , as through a curtain , there stepped the man whom we were awaiting .
he looked round him in surprise as he emerged into the clear , starlit night .
then he came swiftly along the path , passed close to where we lay , and went on up the long slope behind us .
as he walked he glanced continually over either shoulder , like a man who is ill at ease .
" hist ! " cried holmes , and i heard the sharp click of a cocking pistol .
" look out !
it 's coming ! "
there was a thin , crisp , continuous patter from somewhere in the heart of that crawling bank .
the cloud was within fifty yards of where we lay , and we glared at it , all three , uncertain what horror was about to break from the heart of it . i was at holmes 's elbow , and i glanced for an instant at his face .
it was pale and exultant , his eyes shining brightly in the moonlight . but suddenly they started forward in a rigid , fixed stare , and his lips parted in amazement .
at the same instant lestrade gave a yell of terror and threw himself face downward upon the ground .
i sprang to my feet , my inert hand grasping my pistol , my mind paralyzed by the dreadful shape which had sprung out upon us from the shadows of the fog .
a hound it was , an enormous coal-black hound , but not such a hound as mortal eyes have ever seen .
fire burst from its open mouth , its eyes glowed with a smouldering glare , its muzzle and hackles and dewlap were outlined in flickering flame .
never in the delirious dream of a disordered brain could anything more savage , more appalling , more hellish be conceived than that dark form and savage face which broke upon us out of the wall of fog .
with long bounds the huge black creature was leaping down the track , following hard upon the footsteps of our friend .
so paralyzed were we by the apparition that we allowed him to pass before we had recovered our nerve .
then holmes and i both fired together , and the creature gave a hideous howl , which showed that one at least had hit him .
he did not pause , however , but bounded onward .
far away on the path we saw sir henry looking back , his face white in the moonlight , his hands raised in horror , glaring helplessly at the frightful thing which was hunting him down .
but that cry of pain from the hound had blown all our fears to the winds .
if he was vulnerable he was mortal , and if we could wound him we could kill him .
never have i seen a man run as holmes ran that night .
i am reckoned fleet of foot , but he outpaced me as much as i outpaced the little professional .
in front of us as we flew up the track we heard scream after scream from sir henry and the deep roar of the hound .
i was in time to see the beast spring upon its victim , hurl him to the ground , and worry at his throat .
but the next instant holmes had emptied five barrels of his revolver into the creature 's flank .
with a last howl of agony and a vicious snap in the air , it rolled upon its back , four feet pawing furiously , and then fell limp upon its side .
i stooped , panting , and pressed my pistol to the dreadful , shimmering head , but it was useless to press the trigger . the giant hound was dead .
sir henry lay insensible where he had fallen .
we tore away his collar , and holmes breathed a prayer of gratitude when we saw that there was no sign of a wound and that the rescue had been in time .
already our friend 's eyelids shivered and he made a feeble effort to move .
lestrade thrust his brandy-flask between the baronet 's teeth , and two frightened eyes were looking up at us .
" my god ! " he whispered .
" what was it ?
what , in heaven 's name , was it ? "
" it 's dead , whatever it is , " said holmes .
" we 've laid the family ghost once and forever . "
in mere size and strength it was a terrible creature which was lying stretched before us . it was not a pure bloodhound and it was not a pure mastiff ; but it appeared to be a combination of the two--gaunt , savage , and as large as a small lioness .
even now , in the stillness of death , the huge jaws seemed to be dripping with a bluish flame and the small , deep-set , cruel eyes were ringed with fire .
i placed my hand upon the glowing muzzle , and as i held them up my own fingers smouldered and gleamed in the darkness .
" phosphorus , " i said .
" a cunning preparation of it , " said holmes , sniffing at the dead animal .
" there is no smell which might have interfered with his power of scent .
we owe you a deep apology , sir henry , for having exposed you to this fright .
i was prepared for a hound , but not for such a creature as this .
and the fog gave us little time to receive him . "
" you have saved my life . "
" having first endangered it .
are you strong enough to stand ? "
" give me another mouthful of that brandy and i shall be ready for anything .
so !
now , if you will help me up .
what do you propose to do ? "
" to leave you here .
you are not fit for further adventures to-night .
if you will wait , one or other of us will go back with you to the hall . "
he tried to stagger to his feet ; but he was still ghastly pale and trembling in every limb .
we helped him to a rock , where he sat shivering with his face buried in his hands .
" we must leave you now , " said holmes .
" the rest of our work must be done , and every moment is of importance .
we have our case , and now we only want our man .
" it 's a thousand to one against our finding him at the house , " he continued as we retraced our steps swiftly down the path .
" those shots must have told him that the game was up . "
" we were some distance off , and this fog may have deadened them . "
" he followed the hound to call him off--of that you may be certain .
no , no , he 's gone by this time !
but we 'll search the house and make sure . "
the front door was open , so we rushed in and hurried from room to room to the amazement of a doddering old manservant , who met us in the passage .
there was no light save in the dining-room , but holmes caught up the lamp and left no corner of the house unexplored .
no sign could we see of the man whom we were chasing .
on the upper floor , however , one of the bedroom doors was locked .
" there 's someone in here , " cried lestrade .
" i can hear a movement .
open this door ! "
a faint moaning and rustling came from within .
holmes struck the door just over the lock with the flat of his foot and it flew open .
pistol in hand , we all three rushed into the room .
but there was no sign within it of that desperate and defiant villain whom we expected to see . instead we were faced by an object so strange and so unexpected that we stood for a moment staring at it in amazement .
the room had been fashioned into a small museum , and the walls were lined by a number of glass-topped cases full of that collection of butterflies and moths the formation of which had been the relaxation of this complex and dangerous man .
in the centre of this room there was an upright beam , which had been placed at some period as a support for the old worm-eaten baulk of timber which spanned the roof .
to this post a figure was tied , so swathed and muffled in the sheets which had been used to secure it that one could not for the moment tell whether it was that of a man or a woman .
one towel passed round the throat and was secured at the back of the pillar .
another covered the lower part of the face , and over it two dark eyes--eyes full of grief and shame and a dreadful questioning--stared back at us .
in a minute we had torn off the gag , unswathed the bonds , and mrs. stapleton sank upon the floor in front of us .
as her beautiful head fell upon her chest i saw the clear red weal of a whiplash across her neck .
" the brute ! " cried holmes .
" here , lestrade , your brandy-bottle !
put her in the chair !
she has fainted from ill-usage and exhaustion . "
she opened her eyes again .
" is he safe ? " she asked .
" has he escaped ? "
" he cannot escape us , madam . "
" no , no , i did not mean my husband .
sir henry ?
is he safe ? "
" yes . "
" and the hound ? "
" it is dead . "
she gave a long sigh of satisfaction .
" thank god !
thank god ! oh , this villain !
see how he has treated me ! " she shot her arms out from her sleeves , and we saw with horror that they were all mottled with bruises .
" but this is nothing--nothing !
it is my mind and soul that he has tortured and defiled .
i could endure it all , ill-usage , solitude , a life of deception , everything , as long as i could still cling to the hope that i had his love , but now i know that in this also i have been his dupe and his tool . "
she broke into passionate sobbing as she spoke .
" you bear him no good will , madam , " said holmes .
" tell us then where we shall find him .
if you have ever aided him in evil , help us now and so atone . "
" there is but one place where he can have fled , " she answered .
" there is an old tin mine on an island in the heart of the mire .
it was there that he kept his hound and there also he had made preparations so that he might have a refuge .
that is where he would fly . "
the fog-bank lay like white wool against the window .
holmes held the lamp towards it .
" see , " said he .
" no one could find his way into the grimpen mire to-night . "
she laughed and clapped her hands .
her eyes and teeth gleamed with fierce merriment .
" he may find his way in , but never out , " she cried .
" how can he see the guiding wands to-night ?
we planted them together , he and i , to mark the pathway through the mire .
oh , if i could only have plucked them out to-day .
then indeed you would have had him at your mercy ! "
it was evident to us that all pursuit was in vain until the fog had lifted .
meanwhile we left lestrade in possession of the house while holmes and i went back with the baronet to baskerville hall .
the story of the stapletons could no longer be withheld from him , but he took the blow bravely when he learned the truth about the woman whom he had loved .
but the shock of the night 's adventures had shattered his nerves , and before morning he lay delirious in a high fever , under the care of dr. mortimer .
the two of them were destined to travel together round the world before sir henry had become once more the hale , hearty man that he had been before he became master of that ill-omened estate .
and now i come rapidly to the conclusion of this singular narrative , in which i have tried to make the reader share those dark fears and vague surmises which clouded our lives so long and ended in so tragic a manner .
on the morning after the death of the hound the fog had lifted and we were guided by mrs. stapleton to the point where they had found a pathway through the bog .
it helped us to realize the horror of this woman 's life when we saw the eagerness and joy with which she laid us on her husband 's track .
we left her standing upon the thin peninsula of firm , peaty soil which tapered out into the widespread bog .
from the end of it a small wand planted here and there showed where the path zigzagged from tuft to tuft of rushes among those green-scummed pits and foul quagmires which barred the way to the stranger .
rank reeds and lush , slimy water-plants sent an odour of decay and a heavy miasmatic vapour onto our faces , while a false step plunged us more than once thigh-deep into the dark , quivering mire , which shook for yards in soft undulations around our feet .
its tenacious grip plucked at our heels as we walked , and when we sank into it it was as if some malignant hand was tugging us down into those obscene depths , so grim and purposeful was the clutch in which it held us .
once only we saw a trace that someone had passed that perilous way before us .
from amid a tuft of cotton grass which bore it up out of the slime some dark thing was projecting .
holmes sank to his waist as he stepped from the path to seize it , and had we not been there to drag him out he could never have set his foot upon firm land again .
he held an old black boot in the air . " meyers , toronto , " was printed on the leather inside .
" it is worth a mud bath , " said he .
" it is our friend sir henry 's missing boot . "
" thrown there by stapleton in his flight . "
" exactly .
he retained it in his hand after using it to set the hound upon the track .
he fled when he knew the game was up , still clutching it .
and he hurled it away at this point of his flight .
we know at least that he came so far in safety . "
but more than that we were never destined to know , though there was much which we might surmise .
there was no chance of finding footsteps in the mire , for the rising mud oozed swiftly in upon them , but as we at last reached firmer ground beyond the morass we all looked eagerly for them . but no slightest sign of them ever met our eyes .
if the earth told a true story , then stapleton never reached that island of refuge towards which he struggled through the fog upon that last night .
somewhere in the heart of the great grimpen mire , down in the foul slime of the huge morass which had sucked him in , this cold and cruel-hearted man is forever buried .
many traces we found of him in the bog-girt island where he had hid his savage ally .
a huge driving-wheel and a shaft half-filled with rubbish showed the position of an abandoned mine .
beside it were the crumbling remains of the cottages of the miners , driven away no doubt by the foul reek of the surrounding swamp .
in one of these a staple and chain with a quantity of gnawed bones showed where the animal had been confined .
a skeleton with a tangle of brown hair adhering to it lay among the debris .
" a dog ! " said holmes .
" by jove , a curly-haired spaniel .
poor mortimer will never see his pet again . well , i do not know that this place contains any secret which we have not already fathomed .
he could hide his hound , but he could not hush its voice , and hence came those cries which even in daylight were not pleasant to hear .
on an emergency he could keep the hound in the out-house at merripit , but it was always a risk , and it was only on the supreme day , which he regarded as the end of all his efforts , that he dared do it .
this paste in the tin is no doubt the luminous mixture with which the creature was daubed .
it was suggested , of course , by the story of the family hell-hound , and by the desire to frighten old sir charles to death .
no wonder the poor devil of a convict ran and screamed , even as our friend did , and as we ourselves might have done , when he saw such a creature bounding through the darkness of the moor upon his track .
it was a cunning device , for , apart from the chance of driving your victim to his death , what peasant would venture to inquire too closely into such a creature should he get sight of it , as many have done , upon the moor ?
i said it in london , watson , and i say it again now , that never yet have we helped to hunt down a more dangerous man than he who is lying yonder " --he swept his long arm towards the huge mottled expanse of green-splotched bog which stretched away until it merged into the russet slopes of the moor .
chapter 15 a retrospection
it was the end of november and holmes and i sat , upon a raw and foggy night , on either side of a blazing fire in our sitting-room in baker street .
since the tragic upshot of our visit to devonshire he had been engaged in two affairs of the utmost importance , in the first of which he had exposed the atrocious conduct of colonel upwood in connection with the famous card scandal of the nonpareil club , while in the second he had defended the unfortunate mme. montpensier from the charge of murder which hung over her in connection with the death of her step-daughter , mlle. carere , the young lady who , as it will be remembered , was found six months later alive and married in new york .
my friend was in excellent spirits over the success which had attended a succession of difficult and important cases , so that i was able to induce him to discuss the details of the baskerville mystery .
i had waited patiently for the opportunity , for i was aware that he would never permit cases to overlap , and that his clear and logical mind would not be drawn from its present work to dwell upon memories of the past .
sir henry and dr. mortimer were , however , in london , on their way to that long voyage which had been recommended for the restoration of his shattered nerves . they had called upon us that very afternoon , so that it was natural that the subject should come up for discussion .
" the whole course of events , " said holmes , " from the point of view of the man who called himself stapleton was simple and direct , although to us , who had no means in the beginning of knowing the motives of his actions and could only learn part of the facts , it all appeared exceedingly complex .
i have had the advantage of two conversations with mrs. stapleton , and the case has now been so entirely cleared up that i am not aware that there is anything which has remained a secret to us .
you will find a few notes upon the matter under the heading b in my indexed list of cases . "
" perhaps you would kindly give me a sketch of the course of events from memory . "
" certainly , though i cannot guarantee that i carry all the facts in my mind .
intense mental concentration has a curious way of blotting out what has passed .
the barrister who has his case at his fingers ' ends , and is able to argue with an expert upon his own subject finds that a week or two of the courts will drive it all out of his head once more .
so each of my cases displaces the last , and mlle. carere has blurred my recollection of baskerville hall .
to-morrow some other little problem may be submitted to my notice which will in turn dispossess the fair french lady and the infamous upwood .
so far as the case of the hound goes , however , i will give you the course of events as nearly as i can , and you will suggest anything which i may have forgotten .
" my inquiries show beyond all question that the family portrait did not lie , and that this fellow was indeed a baskerville .
he was a son of that rodger baskerville , the younger brother of sir charles , who fled with a sinister reputation to south america , where he was said to have died unmarried .
he did , as a matter of fact , marry , and had one child , this fellow , whose real name is the same as his father 's .
he married beryl garcia , one of the beauties of costa rica , and , having purloined a considerable sum of public money , he changed his name to vandeleur and fled to england , where he established a school in the east of yorkshire .
his reason for attempting this special line of business was that he had struck up an acquaintance with a consumptive tutor upon the voyage home , and that he had used this man 's ability to make the undertaking a success .
fraser , the tutor , died however , and the school which had begun well sank from disrepute into infamy .
the vandeleurs found it convenient to change their name to stapleton , and he brought the remains of his fortune , his schemes for the future , and his taste for entomology to the south of england .
i learned at the british museum that he was a recognized authority upon the subject , and that the name of vandeleur has been permanently attached to a certain moth which he had , in his yorkshire days , been the first to describe .
" we now come to that portion of his life which has proved to be of such intense interest to us .
the fellow had evidently made inquiry and found that only two lives intervened between him and a valuable estate .
when he went to devonshire his plans were , i believe , exceedingly hazy , but that he meant mischief from the first is evident from the way in which he took his wife with him in the character of his sister .
the idea of using her as a decoy was clearly already in his mind , though he may not have been certain how the details of his plot were to be arranged .
he meant in the end to have the estate , and he was ready to use any tool or run any risk for that end .
his first act was to establish himself as near to his ancestral home as he could , and his second was to cultivate a friendship with sir charles baskerville and with the neighbours .
" the baronet himself told him about the family hound , and so prepared the way for his own death .
stapleton , as i will continue to call him , knew that the old man 's heart was weak and that a shock would kill him .
so much he had learned from dr. mortimer .
he had heard also that sir charles was superstitious and had taken this grim legend very seriously .
his ingenious mind instantly suggested a way by which the baronet could be done to death , and yet it would be hardly possible to bring home the guilt to the real murderer .
" having conceived the idea he proceeded to carry it out with considerable finesse .
an ordinary schemer would have been content to work with a savage hound .
the use of artificial means to make the creature diabolical was a flash of genius upon his part .
the dog he bought in london from ross and mangles , the dealers in fulham road . it was the strongest and most savage in their possession .
he brought it down by the north devon line and walked a great distance over the moor so as to get it home without exciting any remarks .
he had already on his insect hunts learned to penetrate the grimpen mire , and so had found a safe hiding-place for the creature .
here he kennelled it and waited his chance .
" but it was some time coming .
the old gentleman could not be decoyed outside of his grounds at night .
several times stapleton lurked about with his hound , but without avail .
it was during these fruitless quests that he , or rather his ally , was seen by peasants , and that the legend of the demon dog received a new confirmation .
he had hoped that his wife might lure sir charles to his ruin , but here she proved unexpectedly independent .
she would not endeavour to entangle the old gentleman in a sentimental attachment which might deliver him over to his enemy .
threats and even , i am sorry to say , blows refused to move her .
she would have nothing to do with it , and for a time stapleton was at a deadlock .
" he found a way out of his difficulties through the chance that sir charles , who had conceived a friendship for him , made him the minister of his charity in the case of this unfortunate woman , mrs. laura lyons .
by representing himself as a single man he acquired complete influence over her , and he gave her to understand that in the event of her obtaining a divorce from her husband he would marry her .
his plans were suddenly brought to a head by his knowledge that sir charles was about to leave the hall on the advice of dr. mortimer , with whose opinion he himself pretended to coincide .
he must act at once , or his victim might get beyond his power .
he therefore put pressure upon mrs. lyons to write this letter , imploring the old man to give her an interview on the evening before his departure for london .
he then , by a specious argument , prevented her from going , and so had the chance for which he had waited .
" driving back in the evening from coombe tracey he was in time to get his hound , to treat it with his infernal paint , and to bring the beast round to the gate at which he had reason to expect that he would find the old gentleman waiting .
the dog , incited by its master , sprang over the wicket-gate and pursued the unfortunate baronet , who fled screaming down the yew alley .
in that gloomy tunnel it must indeed have been a dreadful sight to see that huge black creature , with its flaming jaws and blazing eyes , bounding after its victim .
he fell dead at the end of the alley from heart disease and terror .
the hound had kept upon the grassy border while the baronet had run down the path , so that no track but the man 's was visible .
on seeing him lying still the creature had probably approached to sniff at him , but finding him dead had turned away again . it was then that it left the print which was actually observed by dr. mortimer .
the hound was called off and hurried away to its lair in the grimpen mire , and a mystery was left which puzzled the authorities , alarmed the country-side , and finally brought the case within the scope of our observation .
" so much for the death of sir charles baskerville .
you perceive the devilish cunning of it , for really it would be almost impossible to make a case against the real murderer .
his only accomplice was one who could never give him away , and the grotesque , inconceivable nature of the device only served to make it more effective .
both of the women concerned in the case , mrs. stapleton and mrs. laura lyons , were left with a strong suspicion against stapleton .
mrs. stapleton knew that he had designs upon the old man , and also of the existence of the hound .
mrs. lyons knew neither of these things , but had been impressed by the death occurring at the time of an uncancelled appointment which was only known to him .
however , both of them were under his influence , and he had nothing to fear from them .
the first half of his task was successfully accomplished but the more difficult still remained .
" it is possible that stapleton did not know of the existence of an heir in canada .
in any case he would very soon learn it from his friend dr. mortimer , and he was told by the latter all details about the arrival of henry baskerville .
stapleton 's first idea was that this young stranger from canada might possibly be done to death in london without coming down to devonshire at all .
he distrusted his wife ever since she had refused to help him in laying a trap for the old man , and he dared not leave her long out of his sight for fear he should lose his influence over her .
it was for this reason that he took her to london with him .
they lodged , i find , at the mexborough private hotel , in craven street , which was actually one of those called upon by my agent in search of evidence .
here he kept his wife imprisoned in her room while he , disguised in a beard , followed dr. mortimer to baker street and afterwards to the station and to the northumberland hotel .
his wife had some inkling of his plans ; but she had such a fear of her husband--a fear founded upon brutal ill-treatment--that she dare not write to warn the man whom she knew to be in danger .
if the letter should fall into stapleton 's hands her own life would not be safe .
eventually , as we know , she adopted the expedient of cutting out the words which would form the message , and addressing the letter in a disguised hand .
it reached the baronet , and gave him the first warning of his danger .
" it was very essential for stapleton to get some article of sir henry 's attire so that , in case he was driven to use the dog , he might always have the means of setting him upon his track .
with characteristic promptness and audacity he set about this at once , and we cannot doubt that the boots or chamber-maid of the hotel was well bribed to help him in his design .
by chance , however , the first boot which was procured for him was a new one and , therefore , useless for his purpose .
he then had it returned and obtained another--a most instructive incident , since it proved conclusively to my mind that we were dealing with a real hound , as no other supposition could explain this anxiety to obtain an old boot and this indifference to a new one .
the more outre and grotesque an incident is the more carefully it deserves to be examined , and the very point which appears to complicate a case is , when duly considered and scientifically handled , the one which is most likely to elucidate it .
" then we had the visit from our friends next morning , shadowed always by stapleton in the cab .
from his knowledge of our rooms and of my appearance , as well as from his general conduct , i am inclined to think that stapleton 's career of crime has been by no means limited to this single baskerville affair .
it is suggestive that during the last three years there have been four considerable burglaries in the west country , for none of which was any criminal ever arrested .
the last of these , at folkestone court , in may , was remarkable for the cold-blooded pistoling of the page , who surprised the masked and solitary burglar .
i cannot doubt that stapleton recruited his waning resources in this fashion , and that for years he has been a desperate and dangerous man .
" we had an example of his readiness of resource that morning when he got away from us so successfully , and also of his audacity in sending back my own name to me through the cabman .
from that moment he understood that i had taken over the case in london , and that therefore there was no chance for him there .
he returned to dartmoor and awaited the arrival of the baronet . "
" one moment ! " said i .
" you have , no doubt , described the sequence of events correctly , but there is one point which you have left unexplained . what became of the hound when its master was in london ? "
" i have given some attention to this matter and it is undoubtedly of importance .
there can be no question that stapleton had a confidant , though it is unlikely that he ever placed himself in his power by sharing all his plans with him .
there was an old manservant at merripit house , whose name was anthony .
his connection with the stapletons can be traced for several years , as far back as the schoolmastering days , so that he must have been aware that his master and mistress were really husband and wife .
this man has disappeared and has escaped from the country .
it is suggestive that anthony is not a common name in england , while antonio is so in all spanish or spanish-american countries .
the man , like mrs. stapleton herself , spoke good english , but with a curious lisping accent .
i have myself seen this old man cross the grimpen mire by the path which stapleton had marked out .
it is very probable , therefore , that in the absence of his master it was he who cared for the hound , though he may never have known the purpose for which the beast was used .
" the stapletons then went down to devonshire , whither they were soon followed by sir henry and you .
one word now as to how i stood myself at that time .
it may possibly recur to your memory that when i examined the paper upon which the printed words were fastened i made a close inspection for the water-mark .
in doing so i held it within a few inches of my eyes , and was conscious of a faint smell of the scent known as white jessamine .
there are seventy-five perfumes , which it is very necessary that a criminal expert should be able to distinguish from each other , and cases have more than once within my own experience depended upon their prompt recognition .
the scent suggested the presence of a lady , and already my thoughts began to turn towards the stapletons .
thus i had made certain of the hound , and had guessed at the criminal before ever we went to the west country .
" it was my game to watch stapleton .
it was evident , however , that i could not do this if i were with you , since he would be keenly on his guard .
i deceived everybody , therefore , yourself included , and i came down secretly when i was supposed to be in london .
my hardships were not so great as you imagined , though such trifling details must never interfere with the investigation of a case .
i stayed for the most part at coombe tracey , and only used the hut upon the moor when it was necessary to be near the scene of action .
cartwright had come down with me , and in his disguise as a country boy he was of great assistance to me .
i was dependent upon him for food and clean linen .
when i was watching stapleton , cartwright was frequently watching you , so that i was able to keep my hand upon all the strings .
" i have already told you that your reports reached me rapidly , being forwarded instantly from baker street to coombe tracey .
they were of great service to me , and especially that one incidentally truthful piece of biography of stapleton 's .
i was able to establish the identity of the man and the woman and knew at last exactly how i stood .
the case had been considerably complicated through the incident of the escaped convict and the relations between him and the barrymores .
this also you cleared up in a very effective way , though i had already come to the same conclusions from my own observations .
" by the time that you discovered me upon the moor i had a complete knowledge of the whole business , but i had not a case which could go to a jury .
even stapleton 's attempt upon sir henry that night which ended in the death of the unfortunate convict did not help us much in proving murder against our man .
there seemed to be no alternative but to catch him red-handed , and to do so we had to use sir henry , alone and apparently unprotected , as a bait .
we did so , and at the cost of a severe shock to our client we succeeded in completing our case and driving stapleton to his destruction .
that sir henry should have been exposed to this is , i must confess , a reproach to my management of the case , but we had no means of foreseeing the terrible and paralyzing spectacle which the beast presented , nor could we predict the fog which enabled him to burst upon us at such short notice .
we succeeded in our object at a cost which both the specialist and dr. mortimer assure me will be a temporary one .
a long journey may enable our friend to recover not only from his shattered nerves but also from his wounded feelings .
his love for the lady was deep and sincere , and to him the saddest part of all this black business was that he should have been deceived by her .
" it only remains to indicate the part which she had played throughout .
there can be no doubt that stapleton exercised an influence over her which may have been love or may have been fear , or very possibly both , since they are by no means incompatible emotions .
it was , at least , absolutely effective . at his command she consented to pass as his sister , though he found the limits of his power over her when he endeavoured to make her the direct accessory to murder .
she was ready to warn sir henry so far as she could without implicating her husband , and again and again she tried to do so .
stapleton himself seems to have been capable of jealousy , and when he saw the baronet paying court to the lady , even though it was part of his own plan , still he could not help interrupting with a passionate outburst which revealed the fiery soul which his self-contained manner so cleverly concealed .
by encouraging the intimacy he made it certain that sir henry would frequently come to merripit house and that he would sooner or later get the opportunity which he desired .
on the day of the crisis , however , his wife turned suddenly against him .
she had learned something of the death of the convict , and she knew that the hound was being kept in the out-house on the evening that sir henry was coming to dinner .
she taxed her husband with his intended crime , and a furious scene followed , in which he showed her for the first time that she had a rival in his love .
her fidelity turned in an instant to bitter hatred and he saw that she would betray him .
he tied her up , therefore , that she might have no chance of warning sir henry , and he hoped , no doubt , that when the whole country-side put down the baronet 's death to the curse of his family , as they certainly would do , he could win his wife back to accept an accomplished fact and to keep silent upon what she knew .
in this i fancy that in any case he made a miscalculation , and that , if we had not been there , his doom would none the less have been sealed .
a woman of spanish blood does not condone such an injury so lightly .
and now , my dear watson , without referring to my notes , i cannot give you a more detailed account of this curious case .
i do not know that anything essential has been left unexplained . "
" he could not hope to frighten sir henry to death as he had done the old uncle with his bogie hound . "
" the beast was savage and half-starved .
if its appearance did not frighten its victim to death , at least it would paralyze the resistance which might be offered . "
" no doubt .
there only remains one difficulty .
if stapleton came into the succession , how could he explain the fact that he , the heir , had been living unannounced under another name so close to the property ?
how could he claim it without causing suspicion and inquiry ? "
" it is a formidable difficulty , and i fear that you ask too much when you expect me to solve it .
the past and the present are within the field of my inquiry , but what a man may do in the future is a hard question to answer .
mrs. stapleton has heard her husband discuss the problem on several occasions .
there were three possible courses .
he might claim the property from south america , establish his identity before the british authorities there and so obtain the fortune without ever coming to england at all ; or he might adopt an elaborate disguise during the short time that he need be in london ; or , again , he might furnish an accomplice with the proofs and papers , putting him in as heir , and retaining a claim upon some proportion of his income .
we cannot doubt from what we know of him that he would have found some way out of the difficulty .
and now , my dear watson , we have had some weeks of severe work , and for one evening , i think , we may turn our thoughts into more pleasant channels .
i have a box for ' les huguenots . '
have you heard the de reszkes ?
might i trouble you then to be ready in half an hour , and we can stop at marcini 's for a little dinner on the way ? "
rodney stone
arthur conan doyle
chapter i--friar 's oak
on this , the first of january of the year 1851 , the nineteenth century has reached its midway term , and many of us who shared its youth have already warnings which tell us that it has outworn us .
we put our grizzled heads together , we older ones , and we talk of the great days that we have known ; but we find that when it is with our children that we talk it is a hard matter to make them understand .
we and our fathers before us lived much the same life , but they with their railway trains and their steamboats belong to a different age .
it is true that we can put history-books into their hands , and they can read from them of our weary struggle of two and twenty years with that great and evil man .
they can learn how freedom fled from the whole broad continent , and how nelson 's blood was shed , and pitt 's noble heart was broken in striving that she should not pass us for ever to take refuge with our brothers across the atlantic .
all this they can read , with the date of this treaty or that battle , but i do not know where they are to read of ourselves , of the folk we were , and the lives we led , and how the world seemed to our eyes when they were young as theirs are now .
if i take up my pen to tell you about this , you must not look for any story at my hands , for i was only in my earliest manhood when these things befell ; and although i saw something of the stories of other lives , i could scarce claim one of my own .
it is the love of a woman that makes the story of a man , and many a year was to pass before i first looked into the eyes of the mother of my children .
to us it seems but an affair of yesterday , and yet those children can now reach the plums in the garden whilst we are seeking for a ladder , and where we once walked with their little hands in ours , we are glad now to lean upon their arms .
but i shall speak of a time when the love of a mother was the only love i knew , and if you seek for something more , then it is not for you that i write .
but if you would come out with me into that forgotten world ; if you would know boy jim and champion harrison ; if you would meet my father , one of nelson 's own men ; if you would catch a glimpse of that great seaman himself , and of george , afterwards the unworthy king of england ; if , above all , you would see my famous uncle , sir charles tregellis , the king of the bucks , and the great fighting men whose names are still household words amongst you , then give me your hand and let us start .
but i must warn you also that , if you think you will find much that is of interest in your guide , you are destined to disappointment .
when i look over my bookshelves , i can see that it is only the wise and witty and valiant who have ventured to write down their experiences .
for my own part , if i were only assured that i was as clever and brave as the average man about me , i should be well satisfied .
men of their hands have thought well of my brains , and men of brains of my hands , and that is the best that i can say of myself .
save in the one matter of having an inborn readiness for music , so that the mastery of any instrument comes very easily and naturally to me , i cannot recall any single advantage which i can boast over my fellows .
in all things i have been a half-way man , for i am of middle height , my eyes are neither blue nor grey , and my hair , before nature dusted it with her powder , was betwixt flaxen and brown .
i may , perhaps , claim this : that through life i have never felt a touch of jealousy as i have admired a better man than myself , and that i have always seen all things as they are , myself included , which should count in my favour now that i sit down in my mature age to write my memories .
with your permission , then , we will push my own personality as far as possible out of the picture .
if you can conceive me as a thin and colourless cord upon which my would-be pearls are strung , you will be accepting me upon the terms which i should wish .
our family , the stones , have for many generations belonged to the navy , and it has been a custom among us for the eldest son to take the name of his father 's favourite commander .
thus we can trace our lineage back to old vernon stone , who commanded a high-sterned , peak-nosed , fifty-gun ship against the dutch .
through hawke stone and benbow stone we came down to my father , anson stone , who in his turn christened me rodney , at the parish church of st. thomas at portsmouth in the year of grace 1786 .
out of my window as i write i can see my own great lad in the garden , and if i were to call out " nelson ! " you would see that i have been true to the traditions of our family .
my dear mother , the best that ever a man had , was the second daughter of the reverend john tregellis , vicar of milton , which is a small parish upon the borders of the marshes of langstone .
she came of a poor family , but one of some position , for her elder brother was the famous sir charles tregellis , who , having inherited the money of a wealthy east indian merchant , became in time the talk of the town and the very particular friend of the prince of wales .
of him i shall have more to say hereafter ; but you will note now that he was my own uncle , and brother to my mother .
i can remember her all through her beautiful life for she was but a girl when she married , and little more when i can first recall her busy fingers and her gentle voice .
i see her as a lovely woman with kind , dove 's eyes , somewhat short of stature it is true , but carrying herself very bravely .
in my memories of those days she is clad always in some purple shimmering stuff , with a white kerchief round her long white neck , and i see her fingers turning and darting as she works at her knitting .
i see her again in her middle years , sweet and loving , planning , contriving , achieving , with the few shillings a day of a lieutenant 's pay on which to support the cottage at friar 's oak , and to keep a fair face to the world .
and now , if i do but step into the parlour , i can see her once more , with over eighty years of saintly life behind her , silver-haired , placid-faced , with her dainty ribboned cap , her gold-rimmed glasses , and her woolly shawl with the blue border .
i loved her young and i love her old , and when she goes she will take something with her which nothing in the world can ever make good to me again .
you may have many friends , you who read this , and you may chance to marry more than once , but your mother is your first and your last .
cherish her , then , whilst you may , for the day will come when every hasty deed or heedless word will come back with its sting to hive in your own heart .
such , then , was my mother ; and as to my father , i can describe him best when i come to the time when he returned to us from the mediterranean .
during all my childhood he was only a name to me , and a face in a miniature hung round my mother 's neck .
at first they told me he was fighting the french , and then after some years one heard less about the french and more about general buonaparte .
i remember the awe with which one day in thomas street , portsmouth , i saw a print of the great corsican in a bookseller 's window .
this , then , was the arch enemy with whom my father spent his life in terrible and ceaseless contest .
to my childish imagination it was a personal affair , and i for ever saw my father and this clean-shaven , thin-lipped man swaying and reeling in a deadly , year-long grapple .
it was not until i went to the grammar school that i understood how many other little boys there were whose fathers were in the same case .
only once in those long years did my father return home , which will show you what it meant to be the wife of a sailor in those days .
it was just after we had moved from portsmouth to friar 's oak , whither he came for a week before he set sail with admiral jervis to help him to turn his name into lord st. vincent .
i remember that he frightened as well as fascinated me with his talk of battles , and i can recall as if it were yesterday the horror with which i gazed upon a spot of blood upon his shirt ruffle , which had come , as i have no doubt , from a mischance in shaving .
at the time i never questioned that it had spurted from some stricken frenchman or spaniard , and i shrank from him in terror when he laid his horny hand upon my head .
my mother wept bitterly when he was gone , but for my own part i was not sorry to see his blue back and white shorts going down the garden walk , for i felt , with the heedless selfishness of a child , that we were closer together , she and i , when we were alone .
i was in my eleventh year when we moved from portsmouth to friar 's oak , a little sussex village to the north of brighton , which was recommended to us by my uncle , sir charles tregellis , one of whose grand friends , lord avon , had had his seat near there .
the reason of our moving was that living was cheaper in the country , and that it was easier for my mother to keep up the appearance of a gentlewoman when away from the circle of those to whom she could not refuse hospitality .
they were trying times those to all save the farmers , who made such profits that they could , as i have heard , afford to let half their land lie fallow , while living like gentlemen upon the rest .
wheat was at a hundred and ten shillings a quarter , and the quartern loaf at one and ninepence .
even in the quiet of the cottage of friar 's oak we could scarce have lived , were it not that in the blockading squadron in which my father was stationed there was the occasional chance of a little prize-money .
the line-of-battle ships themselves , tacking on and off outside brest , could earn nothing save honour ; but the frigates in attendance made prizes of many coasters , and these , as is the rule of the service , were counted as belonging to the fleet , and their produce divided into head-money .
in this manner my father was able to send home enough to keep the cottage and to pay for me at the day school of mr. joshua allen , where for four years i learned all that he had to teach .
it was at allen 's school that i first knew jim harrison , boy jim as he has always been called , the nephew of champion harrison of the village smithy .
i can see him as he was in those days with great , floundering , half-formed limbs like a newfoundland puppy , and a face that set every woman 's head round as he passed her .
it was in those days that we began our lifelong friendship , a friendship which still in our waning years binds us closely as two brothers .
i taught him his exercises , for he never loved the sight of a book , and he in turn made me box and wrestle , tickle trout on the adur , and snare rabbits on ditching down , for his hands were as active as his brain was slow .
he was two years my elder , however , so that , long before i had finished my schooling , he had gone to help his uncle at the smithy .
friar 's oak is in a dip of the downs , and the forty-third milestone between london and brighton lies on the skirt of the village .
it is but a small place , with an ivied church , a fine vicarage , and a row of red-brick cottages each in its own little garden .
at one end was the forge of champion harrison , with his house behind it , and at the other was mr. allen 's school .
the yellow cottage , standing back a little from the road , with its upper story bulging forward and a crisscross of black woodwork let into the plaster , is the one in which we lived .
i do not know if it is still standing , but i should think it likely , for it was not a place much given to change .
just opposite to us , at the other side of the broad , white road , was the friar 's oak inn , which was kept in my day by john cummings , a man of excellent repute at home , but liable to strange outbreaks when he travelled , as will afterwards become apparent .
though there was a stream of traffic upon the road , the coaches from brighton were too fresh to stop , and those from london too eager to reach their journey 's end , so that if it had not been for an occasional broken trace or loosened wheel , the landlord would have had only the thirsty throats of the village to trust to .
those were the days when the prince of wales had just built his singular palace by the sea , and so from may to september , which was the brighton season , there was never a day that from one to two hundred curricles , chaises , and phaetons did not rattle past our doors .
many a summer evening have boy jim and i lain upon the grass , watching all these grand folk , and cheering the london coaches as they came roaring through the dust clouds , leaders and wheelers stretched to their work , the bugles screaming and the coachmen with their low-crowned , curly-brimmed hats , and their faces as scarlet as their coats .
the passengers used to laugh when boy jim shouted at them , but if they could have read his big , half-set limbs and his loose shoulders aright , they would have looked a little harder at him , perhaps , and given him back his cheer .
boy jim had never known a father or a mother , and his whole life had been spent with his uncle , champion harrison .
harrison was the friar 's oak blacksmith , and he had his nickname because he fought tom johnson when he held the english belt , and would most certainly have beaten him had the bedfordshire magistrates not appeared to break up the fight .
for years there was no such glutton to take punishment and no more finishing hitter than harrison , though he was always , as i understand , a slow one upon his feet .
at last , in a fight with black baruk the jew , he finished the battle with such a lashing hit that he not only knocked his opponent over the inner ropes , but he left him betwixt life and death for long three weeks .
during all this time harrison lived half demented , expecting every hour to feel the hand of a bow street runner upon his collar , and to be tried for his life .
this experience , with the prayers of his wife , made him forswear the ring for ever , and carry his great muscles into the one trade in which they seemed to give him an advantage .
there was a good business to be done at friar 's oak from the passing traffic and the sussex farmers , so that he soon became the richest of the villagers ; and he came to church on a sunday with his wife and his nephew , looking as respectable a family man as one would wish to see .
he was not a tall man , not more than five feet seven inches , and it was often said that if he had had an extra inch of reach he would have been a match for jackson or belcher at their best .
his chest was like a barrel , and his forearms were the most powerful that i have ever seen , with deep groves between the smooth-swelling muscles like a piece of water-worn rock .
in spite of his strength , however , he was of a slow , orderly , and kindly disposition , so that there was no man more beloved over the whole country side .
his heavy , placid , clean-shaven face could set very sternly , as i have seen upon occasion ; but for me and every child in the village there was ever a smile upon his lips and a greeting in his eyes .
there was not a beggar upon the country side who did not know that his heart was as soft as his muscles were hard .
there was nothing that he liked to talk of more than his old battles , but he would stop if he saw his little wife coming , for the one great shadow in her life was the ever-present fear that some day he would throw down sledge and rasp and be off to the ring once more .
and you must be reminded here once for all that that former calling of his was by no means at that time in the debased condition to which it afterwards fell .
public opinion has gradually become opposed to it , for the reason that it came largely into the hands of rogues , and because it fostered ringside ruffianism .
even the honest and brave pugilist was found to draw villainy round him , just as the pure and noble racehorse does .
for this reason the ring is dying in england , and we may hope that when caunt and bendigo have passed away , they may have none to succeed them .
but it was different in the days of which i speak .
public opinion was then largely in its favour , and there were good reasons why it should be so .
it was a time of war , when england with an army and navy composed only of those who volunteered to fight because they had fighting blood in them , had to encounter , as they would now have to encounter , a power which could by despotic law turn every citizen into a soldier .
if the people had not been full of this lust for combat , it is certain that england must have been overborne .
and it was thought , and is , on the face of it , reasonable , that a struggle between two indomitable men , with thirty thousand to view it and three million to discuss it , did help to set a standard of hardihood and endurance .
brutal it was , no doubt , and its brutality is the end of it ; but it is not so brutal as war , which will survive it .
whether it is logical now to teach the people to be peaceful in an age when their very existence may come to depend upon their being warlike , is a question for wiser heads than mine .
but that was what we thought of it in the days of your grandfathers , and that is why you might find statesmen and philanthropists like windham , fox , and althorp at the side of the ring .
the mere fact that solid men should patronize it was enough in itself to prevent the villainy which afterwards crept in .
for over twenty years , in the days of jackson , brain , cribb , the belchers , pearce , gully , and the rest , the leaders of the ring were men whose honesty was above suspicion ; and those were just the twenty years when the ring may , as i have said , have served a national purpose .
you have heard how pearce saved the bristol girl from the burning house , how jackson won the respect and friendship of the best men of his age , and how gully rose to a seat in the first reformed parliament .
these were the men who set the standard , and their trade carried with it this obvious recommendation , that it is one in which no drunken or foul-living man could long succeed .
there were exceptions among them , no doubt--bullies like hickman and brutes like berks ; in the main , i say again that they were honest men , brave and enduring to an incredible degree , and a credit to the country which produced them .
it was , as you will see , my fate to see something of them , and i speak of what i know .
in our own village , i can assure you that we were very proud of the presence of such a man as champion harrison , and if folks stayed at the inn , they would walk down as far as the smithy just to have the sight of him .
and he was worth seeing , too , especially on a winter 's night when the red glare of the forge would beat upon his great muscles and upon the proud , hawk-face of boy jim as they heaved and swayed over some glowing plough coulter , framing themselves in sparks with every blow .
he would strike once with his thirty-pound swing sledge , and jim twice with his hand hammer ; and the " clunk--clink , clink ! clunk--clink , clink ! " would bring me flying down the village street , on the chance that , since they were both at the anvil , there might be a place for me at the bellows .
only once during those village years can i remember champion harrison showing me for an instant the sort of man that he had been .
it chanced one summer morning , when boy jim and i were standing by the smithy door , that there came a private coach from brighton , with its four fresh horses , and its brass-work shining , flying along with such a merry rattle and jingling , that the champion came running out with a hall-fullered shoe in his tongs to have a look at it .
a gentleman in a white coachman 's cape--a corinthian , as we would call him in those days--was driving , and half a dozen of his fellows , laughing and shouting , were on the top behind him .
it may have been that the bulk of the smith caught his eye , and that he acted in pure wantonness , or it may possibly have been an accident , but , as he swung past , the twenty-foot thong of the driver 's whip hissed round , and we heard the sharp snap of it across harrison 's leather apron .
" halloa , master ! " shouted the smith , looking after him . " you 're not to be trusted on the box until you can handle your whip better 'n that . "
" what 's that ? " cried the driver , pulling up his team .
" i bid you have a care , master , or there will be some one-eyed folk along the road you drive . "
" oh , you say that , do you ? " said the driver , putting his whip into its socket and pulling off his driving-gloves .
" i 'll have a little talk with you , my fine fellow . "
the sporting gentlemen of those days were very fine boxers for the most part , for it was the mode to take a course of mendoza , just as a few years afterwards there was no man about town who had not had the mufflers on with jackson .
knowing their own prowess , they never refused the chance of a wayside adventure , and it was seldom indeed that the bargee or the navigator had much to boast of after a young blood had taken off his coat to him .
this one swung himself off the box-seat with the alacrity of a man who has no doubts about the upshot of the quarrel , and after hanging his caped coat upon the swingle-bar , he daintily turned up the ruffled cuffs of his white cambric shirt . " i 'll pay you for your advice , my man , " said he .
i am sure that the men upon the coach knew who the burly smith was , and looked upon it as a prime joke to see their companion walk into such a trap .
they roared with delight , and bellowed out scraps of advice to him .
" knock some of the soot off him , lord frederick ! " they shouted .
" give the johnny raw his breakfast .
chuck him in among his own cinders !
sharp 's the word , or you 'll see the back of him . "
encouraged by these cries , the young aristocrat advanced upon his man .
the smith never moved , but his mouth set grim and hard , while his tufted brows came down over his keen , grey eyes .
the tongs had fallen , and his hands were hanging free .
" have a care , master , " said he .
" you 'll get pepper if you don 't . "
something in the assured voice , and something also in the quiet pose , warned the young lord of his danger .
i saw him look hard at his antagonist , and as he did so , his hands and his jaw dropped together .
" by gad ! " he cried , " it 's jack harrison ! " " my name , master ! "
" and i thought you were some essex chaw-bacon !
why , man , i haven 't seen you since the day you nearly killed black baruk , and cost me a cool hundred by doing it . "
how they roared on the coach .
" smoked !
smoked , by gad ! " they yelled . " it 's jack harrison the bruiser !
lord frederick was going to take on the ex-champion .
give him one on the apron , fred , and see what happens . "
but the driver had already climbed back into his perch , laughing as loudly as any of his companions .
" we 'll let you off this time , harrison , " said he .
" are those your sons down there ? "
" this is my nephew , master . "
" here 's a guinea for him !
he shall never say i robbed him of his uncle . "
and so , having turned the laugh in his favour by his merry way of taking it , he cracked his whip , and away they flew to make london under the five hours ; while jack harrison , with his half- fullered shoe in his hand , went whistling back to the forge .
chapter ii--the walker of cliffe royal
so much for champion harrison !
now , i wish to say something more about boy jim , not only because he was the comrade of my youth , but because you will find as you go on that this book is his story rather than mine , and that there came a time when his name and his fame were in the mouths of all england .
you will bear with me , therefore , while i tell you of his character as it was in those days , and especially of one very singular adventure which neither of us are likely to forget .
it was strange to see jim with his uncle and his aunt , for he seemed to be of another race and breed to them .
often i have watched them come up the aisle upon a sunday , first the square , thick-set man , and then the little , worn , anxious-eyed woman , and last this glorious lad with his clear-cut face , his black curls , and his step so springy and light that it seemed as if he were bound to earth by some lesser tie than the heavy-footed villagers round him .
he had not yet attained his full six foot of stature , but no judge of a man ( and every woman , at least , is one ) could look at his perfect shoulders , his narrow loins , and his proud head that sat upon his neck like an eagle upon its perch , without feeling that sober joy which all that is beautiful in nature gives to us--a vague self- content , as though in some way we also had a hand in the making of it .
but we are used to associate beauty with softness in a man .
i do not know why they should be so coupled , and they never were with jim .
of all men that i have known , he was the most iron-hard in body and in mind .
who was there among us who could walk with him , or run with him , or swim with him ?
who on all the country side , save only boy jim , would have swung himself over wolstonbury cliff , and clambered down a hundred feet with the mother hawk flapping at his ears in the vain struggle to hold him from her nest ?
he was but sixteen , with his gristle not yet all set into bone , when he fought and beat gipsy lee , of burgess hill , who called himself the " cock of the south downs . "
it was after this that champion harrison took his training as a boxer in hand .
" i 'd rather you left millin ' alone , boy jim , " said he , " and so had the missus ; but if mill you must , it will not be my fault if you cannot hold up your hands to anything in the south country . "
and it was not long before he made good his promise .
i have said already that boy jim had no love for his books , but by that i meant school-books , for when it came to the reading of romances or of anything which had a touch of gallantry or adventure , there was no tearing him away from it until it was finished .
when such a book came into his hands , friar 's oak and the smithy became a dream to him , and his life was spent out upon the ocean or wandering over the broad continents with his heroes .
and he would draw me into his enthusiasms also , so that i was glad to play friday to his crusoe when he proclaimed that the clump at clayton was a desert island , and that we were cast upon it for a week .
but when i found that we were actually to sleep out there without covering every night , and that he proposed that our food should be the sheep of the downs ( wild goats he called them ) cooked upon a fire , which was to be made by the rubbing together of two sticks , my heart failed me , and on the very first night i crept away to my mother .
but jim stayed out there for the whole weary week--a wet week it was , too ! -- and came back at the end of it looking a deal wilder and dirtier than his hero does in the picture-books .
it is well that he had only promised to stay a week , for , if it had been a month , he would have died of cold and hunger before his pride would have let him come home .
his pride ! --that was the deepest thing in all jim 's nature .
it is a mixed quality to my mind , half a virtue and half a vice : a virtue in holding a man out of the dirt ; a vice in making it hard for him to rise when once he has fallen .
jim was proud down to the very marrow of his bones .
you remember the guinea that the young lord had thrown him from the box of the coach ?
two days later somebody picked it from the roadside mud .
jim only had seen where it had fallen , and he would not deign even to point it out to a beggar .
even at school he was the same , with such a sense of his own dignity , that other folk had to think of it too .
he might say , as he did say , that a right angle was a proper sort of angle , or put panama in sicily , but old joshua allen would as soon have thought of raising his cane against him as he would of letting me off if i had said as much .
and so it was that , although jim was the son of nobody , and i of a king 's officer , it always seemed to me to have been a condescension on his part that he should have chosen me as his friend .
it was this pride of boy jim 's which led to an adventure which makes me shiver now when i think of it .
it happened in the august of ' 99 , or it may have been in the early days of september ; but i remember that we heard the cuckoo in patcham wood , and that jim said that perhaps it was the last of him . i was still at school , but jim had left , he being nigh sixteen and i thirteen .
it was my saturday half-holiday , and we spent it , as we often did , out upon the downs .
our favourite place was beyond wolstonbury , where we could stretch ourselves upon the soft , springy , chalk grass among the plump little southdown sheep , chatting with the shepherds , as they leaned upon their queer old pyecombe crooks , made in the days when sussex turned out more iron than all the counties of england .
it was there that we lay upon that glorious afternoon .
if we chose to roll upon our right sides , the whole weald lay in front of us , with the north downs curving away in olive-green folds , with here and there the snow-white rift of a chalk-pit ; if we turned upon our left , we overlooked the huge blue stretch of the channel .
a convoy , as i can well remember , was coming up it that day , the timid flock of merchantmen in front ; the frigates , like well-trained dogs , upon the skirts ; and two burly drover line-of-battle ships rolling along behind them .
my fancy was soaring out to my father upon the waters , when a word from jim brought it back on to the grass like a broken- winged gull .
" roddy , " said he , " have you heard that cliffe royal is haunted ? "
had i heard it ?
of course i had heard it .
who was there in all the down country who had not heard of the walker of cliffe royal ?
" do you know the story of it , roddy ? "
" why , " said i , with some pride , " i ought to know it , seeing that my mother 's brother , sir charles tregellis , was the nearest friend of lord avon , and was at this card-party when the thing happened .
i heard the vicar and my mother talking about it last week , and it was all so clear to me that i might have been there when the murder was done . "
" it is a strange story , " said jim , thoughtfully ; " but when i asked my aunt about it , she would give me no answer ; and as to my uncle , he cut me short at the very mention of it . "
" there is a good reason for that , " said i , " for lord avon was , as i have heard , your uncle 's best friend ; and it is but natural that he would not wish to speak of his disgrace . "
" tell me the story , roddy . "
" it is an old one now--fourteen years old--and yet they have not got to the end of it .
there were four of them who had come down from london to spend a few days in lord avon 's old house .
one was his own young brother , captain barrington ; another was his cousin , sir lothian hume ; sir charles tregellis , my uncle , was the third ; and lord avon the fourth .
they are fond of playing cards for money , these great people , and they played and played for two days and a night .
lord avon lost , and sir lothian lost , and my uncle lost , and captain barrington won until he could win no more .
he won their money , but above all he won papers from his elder brother which meant a great deal to him .
it was late on a monday night that they stopped playing .
on the tuesday morning captain barrington was found dead beside his bed with his throat cut .
" and lord avon did it ? "
" his papers were found burned in the grate , his wristband was clutched in the dead man 's hand , and his knife lay beside the body . "
" did they hang him , then ? "
" they were too slow in laying hands upon him .
he waited until he saw that they had brought it home to him , and then he fled .
he has never been seen since , but it is said that he reached america . "
" and the ghost walks ? "
" there are many who have seen it . "
" why is the house still empty ? "
" because it is in the keeping of the law .
lord avon had no children , and sir lothian hume--the same who was at the card-party-- is his nephew and heir .
but he can touch nothing until he can prove lord avon to be dead . "
jim lay silent for a bit , plucking at the short grass with his fingers .
" roddy , " said he at last , " will you come with me to-night and look for the ghost ? "
it turned me cold , the very thought of it .
" my mother would not let me . "
" slip out when she 's abed .
i 'll wait for you at the smithy . "
" cliffe royal is locked . "
" i 'll open a window easy enough . "
" i 'm afraid , jim . "
" but you are not afraid if you are with me , roddy .
i 'll promise you that no ghost shall hurt you . "
so i gave him my word that i would come , and then all the rest of the day i went about the most sad-faced lad in sussex .
it was all very well for boy jim !
it was that pride of his which was taking him there .
he would go because there was no one else on the country side that would dare .
but i had no pride of that sort .
i was quite of the same way of thinking as the others , and would as soon have thought of passing my night at jacob 's gibbet on ditchling common as in the haunted house of cliffe royal .
still , i could not bring myself to desert jim ; and so , as i say , i slunk about the house with so pale and peaky a face that my dear mother would have it that i had been at the green apples , and sent me to bed early with a dish of camomile tea for my supper .
england went to rest betimes in those days , for there were few who could afford the price of candles .
when i looked out of my window just after the clock had gone ten , there was not a light in the village save only at the inn .
it was but a few feet from the ground , so i slipped out , and there was jim waiting for me at the smithy corner .
we crossed john 's common together , and so past ridden 's farm , meeting only one or two riding officers upon the way .
there was a brisk wind blowing , and the moon kept peeping through the rifts of the scud , so that our road was sometimes silver-clear , and sometimes so black that we found ourselves among the brambles and gorse-bushes which lined it .
we came at last to the wooden gate with the high stone pillars by the roadside , and , looking through between the rails , we saw the long avenue of oaks , and at the end of this ill-boding tunnel , the pale face of the house glimmered in the moonshine .
that would have been enough for me , that one glimpse of it , and the sound of the night wind sighing and groaning among the branches .
but jim swung the gate open , and up we went , the gravel squeaking beneath our tread .
it towered high , the old house , with many little windows in which the moon glinted , and with a strip of water running round three sides of it .
the arched door stood right in the face of us , and on one side a lattice hung open upon its hinges .
" we 're in luck , roddy , " whispered jim .
" here 's one of the windows open . "
" don 't you think we 've gone far enough , jim ? " said i , with my teeth chattering .
" i 'll lift you in first . "
" no , no , i 'll not go first . "
" then i will . "
he gripped the sill , and had his knee on it in an instant .
" now , roddy , give me your hands . "
with a pull he had me up beside him , and a moment later we were both in the haunted house .
how hollow it sounded when we jumped down on to the wooden floor !
there was such a sudden boom and reverberation that we both stood silent for a moment .
then jim burst out laughing .
" what an old drum of a place it is ! " he cried ; " we 'll strike a light , roddy , and see where we are . "
he had brought a candle and a tinder-box in his pocket .
when the flame burned up , we saw an arched stone roof above our heads , and broad deal shelves all round us covered with dusty dishes .
it was the pantry .
" i 'll show you round , " said jim , merrily ; and , pushing the door open , he led the way into the hall .
i remember the high , oak- panelled walls , with the heads of deer jutting out , and a single white bust , which sent my heart into my mouth , in the corner .
many rooms opened out of this , and we wandered from one to the other--the kitchens , the still-room , the morning-room , the dining-room , all filled with the same choking smell of dust and of mildew .
" this is where they played the cards , jim , " said i , in a hushed voice . " it was on that very table . "
" why , here are the cards themselves ! " cried he ; and he pulled a brown towel from something in the centre of the sideboard .
sure enough it was a pile of playing-cards--forty packs , i should think , at the least--which had lain there ever since that tragic game which was played before i was born .
" i wonder whence that stair leads ? " said jim .
" don 't go up there , jim ! "
i cried , clutching at his arm .
" that must lead to the room of the murder . "
" how do you know that ? "
" the vicar said that they saw on the ceiling--oh , jim , you can see it even now ! "
he held up his candle , and there was a great , dark smudge upon the white plaster above us .
" i believe you 're right , " said he ; " but anyhow i 'm going to have a look at it . "
" don 't , jim , don 't ! " i cried .
" tut , roddy ! you can stay here if you are afraid .
i won 't be more than a minute .
there 's no use going on a ghost hunt unless--great lord , there 's something coming down the stairs ! "
i heard it too--a shuffling footstep in the room above , and then a creak from the steps , and then another creak , and another .
i saw jim 's face as if it had been carved out of ivory , with his parted lips and his staring eyes fixed upon the black square of the stair opening .
he still held the light , but his fingers twitched , and with every twitch the shadows sprang from the walls to the ceiling .
as to myself , my knees gave way under me , and i found myself on the floor crouching down behind jim , with a scream frozen in my throat .
and still the step came slowly from stair to stair .
then , hardly daring to look and yet unable to turn away my eyes , i saw a figure dimly outlined in the corner upon which the stair opened .
there was a silence in which i could hear my poor heart thumping , and then when i looked again the figure was gone , and the low creak , creak was heard once more upon the stairs .
jim sprang after it , and i was left half-fainting in the moonlight .
but it was not for long .
he was down again in a minute , and , passing his hand under my arm , he half led and half carried me out of the house .
it was not until we were in the fresh night air again that he opened his mouth .
" can you stand , roddy ? "
" yes , but i 'm shaking . "
" so am i , " said he , passing his hand over his forehead .
" i ask your pardon , roddy .
i was a fool to bring you on such an errand .
but i never believed in such things . i know better now . "
" could it have been a man , jim ? " i asked , plucking up my courage now that i could hear the dogs barking on the farms .
" it was a spirit , rodney . "
" how do you know ? "
" because i followed it and saw it vanish into a wall , as easily as an eel into sand .
why , roddy , what 's amiss now ? "
my fears were all back upon me , and every nerve creeping with horror .
" take me away , jim !
take me away ! " i cried .
i was glaring down the avenue , and his eyes followed mine .
amid the gloom of the oak trees something was coming towards us .
" quiet , roddy ! " whispered jim .
" by heavens , come what may , my arms are going round it this time . "
we crouched as motionless as the trunks behind us .
heavy steps ploughed their way through the soft gravel , and a broad figure loomed upon us in the darkness .
jim sprang upon it like a tiger .
" you 're not a spirit , anyway ! " he cried .
the man gave a shout of surprise , and then a growl of rage .
" what the deuce ! " he roared , and then , " i 'll break your neck if you don 't let go . "
the threat might not have loosened jim 's grip , but the voice did .
" why , uncle ! " he cried .
" well , i 'm blessed if it isn 't boy jim !
and what 's this ?
why , it 's young master rodney stone , as i 'm a living sinner !
what in the world are you two doing up at cliffe royal at this time of night ? "
we had all moved out into the moonlight , and there was champion harrison with a big bundle on his arm , --and such a look of amazement upon his face as would have brought a smile back on to mine had my heart not still been cramped with fear .
" we 're exploring , " said jim .
" exploring , are you ?
well , i don 't think you were meant to be captain cooks , either of you , for i never saw such a pair of peeled- turnip faces .
why , jim , what are you afraid of ? "
" i 'm not afraid , uncle . i never was afraid ; but spirits are new to me , and-- "
" spirits ? "
" i 've been in cliffe royal , and we 've seen the ghost . "
the champion gave a whistle .
" that 's the game , is it ? " said he .
" did you have speech with it ? "
" it vanished first . "
the champion whistled once more .
" i 've heard there is something of the sort up yonder , " said he ; " but it 's not a thing as i would advise you to meddle with .
there 's enough trouble with the folk of this world , boy jim , without going out of your way to mix up with those of another .
as to young master rodney stone , if his good mother saw that white face of his , she 'd never let him come to the smithy more .
walk slowly on , and i 'll see you back to friar 's oak . "
we had gone half a mile , perhaps , when the champion overtook us , and i could not but observe that the bundle was no longer under his arm .
we were nearly at the smithy before jim asked the question which was already in my mind .
" what took you up to cliffe royal , uncle ? "
" well , as a man gets on in years , " said the champion , " there 's many a duty turns up that the likes of you have no idea of .
when you 're near forty yourself , you 'll maybe know the truth of what i say . "
so that was all we could draw from him ; but , young as i was , i had heard of coast smuggling and of packages carried to lonely places at night , so that from that time on , if i had heard that the preventives had made a capture , i was never easy until i saw the jolly face of champion harrison looking out of his smithy door .
chapter iii--the play-actress of anstey cross
i have told you something about friar 's oak , and about the life that we led there .
now that my memory goes back to the old place it would gladly linger , for every thread which i draw from the skein of the past brings out half a dozen others that were entangled with it .
i was in two minds when i began whether i had enough in me to make a book of , and now i know that i could write one about friar 's oak alone , and the folk whom i knew in my childhood .
they were hard and uncouth , some of them , i doubt not ; and yet , seen through the golden haze of time , they all seem sweet and lovable .
there was our good vicar , mr. jefferson , who loved the whole world save only mr. slack , the baptist minister of clayton ; and there was kindly mr. slack , who was all men 's brother save only of mr. jefferson , the vicar of friar 's oak .
then there was monsieur rudin , the french royalist refugee who lived over on the pangdean road , and who , when the news of a victory came in , was convulsed with joy because we had beaten buonaparte , and shaken with rage because we had beaten the french , so that after the nile he wept for a whole day out of delight and then for another one out of fury , alternately clapping his hands and stamping his feet .
well i remember his thin , upright figure and the way in which he jauntily twirled his little cane ; for cold and hunger could not cast him down , though we knew that he had his share of both .
yet he was so proud and had such a grand manner of talking , that no one dared to offer him a cloak or a meal .
i can see his face now , with a flush over each craggy cheek-bone when the butcher made him the present of some ribs of beef .
he could not but take it , and yet whilst he was stalking off he threw a proud glance over his shoulder at the butcher , and he said , " monsieur , i have a dog ! "
yet it was monsieur rudin and not his dog who looked plumper for a week to come .
then i remember mr. paterson , the farmer , who was what you would now call a radical , though at that time some called him a priestley-ite , and some a fox-ite , and nearly everybody a traitor .
it certainly seemed to me at the time to be very wicked that a man should look glum when he heard of a british victory ; and when they burned his straw image at the gate of his farm , boy jim and i were among those who lent a hand .
but we were bound to confess that he was game , though he might be a traitor , for down he came , striding into the midst of us with his brown coat and his buckled shoes , and the fire beating upon his grim , schoolmaster face .
my word , how he rated us , and how glad we were at last to sneak quietly away .
" you livers of a lie ! " said he . " you and those like you have been preaching peace for nigh two thousand years , and cutting throats the whole time .
if the money that is lost in taking french lives were spent in saving english ones , you would have more right to burn candles in your windows .
who are you that dare to come here to insult a law-abiding man ? "
" we are the people of england ! " cried young master ovington , the son of the tory squire .
" you ! you horse-racing , cock-fighting ne 'er-do-weel !
do you presume to talk for the people of england ?
they are a deep , strong , silent stream , and you are the scum , the bubbles , the poor , silly froth that floats upon the surface . "
we thought him very wicked then , but , looking back , i am not sure that we were not very wicked ourselves .
and then there were the smugglers !
the downs swarmed with them , for since there might be no lawful trade betwixt france and england , it had all to run in that channel .
i have been up on st. john 's common upon a dark night , and , lying among the bracken , i have seen as many as seventy mules and a man at the head of each go flitting past me as silently as trout in a stream .
not one of them but bore its two ankers of the right french cognac , or its bale of silk of lyons and lace of valenciennes .
i knew dan scales , the head of them , and i knew tom hislop , the riding officer , and i remember the night they met .
" do you fight , dan ? " asked tom .
" yes , tom ; thou must fight for it . "
on which tom drew his pistol , and blew dan 's brains out .
" it was a sad thing to do , " he said afterwards , " but i knew dan was too good a man for me , for we tried it out before . "
it was tom who paid a poet from brighton to write the lines for the tombstone , which we all thought were very true and good , beginning - " alas ! swift flew the fatal lead which pierced through the young man 's head .
he instantly fell , resigned his breath , and closed his languid eyes in death . " there was more of it , and i dare say it is all still to be read in patcham churchyard .
one day , about the time of our cliffe royal adventure , i was seated in the cottage looking round at the curios which my father had fastened on to the walls , and wishing , like the lazy lad that i was , that mr. lilly had died before ever he wrote his latin grammar , when my mother , who was sitting knitting in the window , gave a little cry of surprise .
" good gracious ! " she cried . " what a vulgar-looking woman ! "
it was so rare to hear my mother say a hard word against anybody ( unless it were general buonaparte ) that i was across the room and at the window in a jump .
a pony-chaise was coming slowly down the village street , and in it was the queerest-looking person that i had ever seen .
she was very stout , with a face that was of so dark a red that it shaded away into purple over the nose and cheeks .
she wore a great hat with a white curling ostrich feather , and from under its brim her two bold , black eyes stared out with a look of anger and defiance as if to tell the folk that she thought less of them than they could do of her .
she had some sort of scarlet pelisse with white swans-down about her neck , and she held the reins slack in her hands , while the pony wandered from side to side of the road as the fancy took him .
each time the chaise swayed , her head with the great hat swayed also , so that sometimes we saw the crown of it and sometimes the brim .
" what a dreadful sight ! " cried my mother .
" what is amiss with her , mother ? "
" heaven forgive me if i misjudge her , rodney , but i think that the unfortunate woman has been drinking . "
" why , " i cried , " she has pulled the chaise up at the smithy .
i 'll find out all the news for you ; " and , catching up my cap , away i scampered .
champion harrison had been shoeing a horse at the forge door , and when i got into the street i could see him with the creature 's hoof still under his arm , and the rasp in his hand , kneeling down amid the white parings .
the woman was beckoning him from the chaise , and he staring up at her with the queerest expression upon his face .
presently he threw down his rasp and went across to her , standing by the wheel and shaking his head as he talked to her .
for my part , i slipped into the smithy , where boy jim was finishing the shoe , and i watched the neatness of his work and the deft way in which he turned up the caulkens .
when he had done with it he carried it out , and there was the strange woman still talking with his uncle .
" is that he ? " i heard her ask .
champion harrison nodded .
she looked at jim , and i never saw such eyes in a human head , so large , and black , and wonderful .
boy as i was , i knew that , in spite of that bloated face , this woman had once been very beautiful .
she put out a hand , with all the fingers going as if she were playing on the harpsichord , and she touched jim on the shoulder .
" i hope--i hope you 're well , " she stammered .
" very well , ma 'am , " said jim , staring from her to his uncle .
" and happy too ? "
" yes , ma 'am , i thank you . "
" nothing that you crave for ? "
" why , no , ma 'am , i have all that i lack . "
" that will do , jim , " said his uncle , in a stern voice .
" blow up the forge again , for that shoe wants reheating . "
but it seemed as if the woman had something else that she would say , for she was angry that he should be sent away .
her eyes gleamed , and her head tossed , while the smith with his two big hands outspread seemed to be soothing her as best he could .
for a long time they whispered until at last she appeared to be satisfied .
" to-morrow , then ? " she cried loud out .
" to-morrow , " he answered .
" you keep your word and i 'll keep mine , " said she , and dropped the lash on the pony 's back .
the smith stood with the rasp in his hand , looking after her until she was just a little red spot on the white road .
then he turned , and i never saw his face so grave .
" jim , " said he , " that 's miss hinton , who has come to live at the maples , out anstey cross way .
she 's taken a kind of a fancy to you , jim , and maybe she can help you on a bit .
i promised her that you would go over and see her to-morrow . "
" i don 't want her help , uncle , and i don 't want to see her . "
" but i 've promised , jim , and you wouldn 't make me out a liar .
she does but want to talk with you , for it is a lonely life she leads . "
" what would she want to talk with such as me about ? "
" why , i cannot say that , but she seemed very set upon it , and women have their fancies .
there 's young master stone here who wouldn 't refuse to go and see a good lady , i 'll warrant , if he thought he might better his fortune by doing so . "
" well , uncle , i 'll go if roddy stone will go with me , " said jim .
" of course he 'll go . won 't you , master rodney ? "
so it ended in my saying " yes , " and back i went with all my news to my mother , who dearly loved a little bit of gossip .
she shook her head when she heard where i was going , but she did not say nay , and so it was settled .
it was a good four miles of a walk , but when we reached it you would not wish to see a more cosy little house : all honeysuckle and creepers , with a wooden porch and lattice windows .
a common-looking woman opened the door for us . " miss hinton cannot see you , " said she .
" but she asked us to come , " said jim .
" i can 't help that , " cried the woman , in a rude voice .
" i tell you that she can 't see you . "
we stood irresolute for a minute .
" maybe you would just tell her i am here , " said jim , at last .
" tell her ! how am i to tell her when she couldn 't so much as hear a pistol in her ears ?
try and tell her yourself , if you have a mind to . "
she threw open a door as she spoke , and there , in a reclining chair at the further end of the room , we caught a glimpse of a figure all lumped together , huge and shapeless , with tails of black hair hanging down . the sound of dreadful , swine-like breathing fell upon our ears .
it was but a glance , and then we were off hot-foot for home . as for me , i was so young that i was not sure whether this was funny or terrible ; but when i looked at jim to see how he took it , he was looking quite white and ill .
" you 'll not tell any one , roddy , " said he .
" not unless it 's my mother . "
" i won 't even tell my uncle .
i 'll say she was ill , the poor lady ! it 's enough that we should have seen her in her shame , without its being the gossip of the village .
it makes me feel sick and heavy at heart . "
" she was so yesterday , jim . " " was she ?
i never marked it .
but i know that she has kind eyes and a kind heart , for i saw the one in the other when she looked at me .
maybe it 's the want of a friend that has driven her to this . "
it blighted his spirits for days , and when it had all gone from my mind it was brought back to me by his manner .
but it was not to be our last memory of the lady with the scarlet pelisse , for before the week was out jim came round to ask me if i would again go up with him .
" my uncle has had a letter , " said he .
" she would speak with me , and i would be easier if you came with me , rod . "
for me it was only a pleasure outing , but i could see , as we drew near the house , that jim was troubling in his mind lest we should find that things were amiss .
his fears were soon set at rest , however , for we had scarce clicked the garden gate before the woman was out of the door of the cottage and running down the path to meet us .
she was so strange a figure , with some sort of purple wrapper on , and her big , flushed face smiling out of it , that i might , if i had been alone , have taken to my heels at the sight of her .
even jim stopped for a moment as if he were not very sure of himself , but her hearty ways soon set us at our ease .
" it is indeed good of you to come and see an old , lonely woman , " said she , " and i owe you an apology that i should give you a fruitless journey on tuesday , but in a sense you were yourselves the cause of it , since the thought of your coming had excited me , and any excitement throws me into a nervous fever .
my poor nerves !
you can see for yourselves how they serve me . "
she held out her twitching hands as she spoke .
then she passed one of them through jim 's arm , and walked with him up the path .
" you must let me know you , and know you well , " said she .
" your uncle and aunt are quite old acquaintances of mine , and though you cannot remember me , i have held you in my arms when you were an infant .
tell me , little man , " she added , turning to me , " what do you call your friend ? "
" boy jim , ma 'am , " said i .
" then if you will not think me forward , i will call you boy jim also .
we elderly people have our privileges , you know .
and now you shall come in with me , and we will take a dish of tea together . "
she led the way into a cosy room--the same which we had caught a glimpse of when last we came--and there , in the middle , was a table with white napery , and shining glass , and gleaming china , and red- cheeked apples piled upon a centre-dish , and a great plateful of smoking muffins which the cross-faced maid had just carried in .
you can think that we did justice to all the good things , and miss hinton would ever keep pressing us to pass our cup and to fill our plate .
twice during our meal she rose from her chair and withdrew into a cupboard at the end of the room , and each time i saw jim 's face cloud , for we heard a gentle clink of glass against glass .
" come now , little man , " said she to me , when the table had been cleared . " why are you looking round so much ? "
" because there are so many pretty things upon the walls . "
" and which do you think the prettiest of them ? "
" why , that ! " said i , pointing to a picture which hung opposite to me .
it was of a tall and slender girl , with the rosiest cheeks and the tenderest eyes--so daintily dressed , too , that i had never seen anything more perfect .
she had a posy of flowers in her hand and another one was lying upon the planks of wood upon which she was standing .
" oh , that 's the prettiest , is it ? " said she , laughing .
" well , now , walk up to it , and let us hear what is writ beneath it . "
i did as she asked , and read out : " miss polly hinton , as ' peggy , ' in the country wife , played for her benefit at the haymarket theatre , september 14th , 1782 . "
" it 's a play-actress , " said i .
" oh , you rude little boy , to say it in such a tone , " said she ; " as if a play-actress wasn 't as good as any one else .
why , ' twas but the other day that the duke of clarence , who may come to call himself king of england , married mrs. jordan , who is herself only a play-actress .
and whom think you that this one is ? "
she stood under the picture with her arms folded across her great body , and her big black eyes looking from one to the other of us .
" why , where are your eyes ? " she cried at last . " _ i _ was miss polly hinton of the haymarket theatre .
and perhaps you never heard the name before ? "
we were compelled to confess that we never had .
and the very name of play-actress had filled us both with a kind of vague horror , like the country-bred folk that we were .
to us they were a class apart , to be hinted at rather than named , with the wrath of the almighty hanging over them like a thundercloud .
indeed , his judgments seemed to be in visible operation before us when we looked upon what this woman was , and what she had been .
" well , " said she , laughing like one who is hurt , " you have no cause to say anything , for i read on your face what you have been taught to think of me .
so this is the upbringing that you have had , jim-- to think evil of that which you do not understand !
i wish you had been in the theatre that very night with prince florizel and four dukes in the boxes , and all the wits and macaronis of london rising at me in the pit .
if lord avon had not given me a cast in his carriage , i had never got my flowers back to my lodgings in york street , westminster .
and now two little country lads are sitting in judgment upon me ! "
jim 's pride brought a flush on to his cheeks , for he did not like to be called a country lad , or to have it supposed that he was so far behind the grand folk in london .
" i have never been inside a play-house , " said he ; " i know nothing of them . "
" nor i either . "
" well , " said she , " i am not in voice , and it is ill to play in a little room with but two to listen , but you must conceive me to be the queen of the peruvians , who is exhorting her countrymen to rise up against the spaniards , who are oppressing them . "
and straightway that coarse , swollen woman became a queen--the grandest , haughtiest queen that you could dream of--and she turned upon us with such words of fire , such lightning eyes and sweeping of her white hand , that she held us spellbound in our chairs .
her voice was soft and sweet , and persuasive at the first , but louder it rang and louder as it spoke of wrongs and freedom and the joys of death in a good cause , until it thrilled into my every nerve , and i asked nothing more than to run out of the cottage and to die then and there in the cause of my country .
and then in an instant she changed .
she was a poor woman now , who had lost her only child , and who was bewailing it .
her voice was full of tears , and what she said was so simple , so true , that we both seemed to see the dead babe stretched there on the carpet before us , and we could have joined in with words of pity and of grief .
and then , before our cheeks were dry , she was back into her old self again .
" how like you that , then ? " she cried .
" that was my way in the days when sally siddons would turn green at the name of polly hinton .
it 's a fine play , is pizarro . "
" and who wrote it , ma 'am ? "
" who wrote it ?
i never heard .
what matter who did the writing of it !
but there are some great lines for one who knows how they should be spoken . "
" and you play no longer , ma 'am ? "
" no , jim , i left the boards when--when i was weary of them .
but my heart goes back to them sometimes .
it seems to me there is no smell like that of the hot oil in the footlights and of the oranges in the pit .
but you are sad , jim . "
" it was but the thought of that poor woman and her child . "
" tut , never think about her !
i will soon wipe her from your mind .
this is ' miss priscilla tomboy , ' from the romp .
you must conceive that the mother is speaking , and that the forward young minx is answering .
and she began a scene between the two of them , so exact in voice and manner that it seemed to us as if there were really two folk before us : the stern old mother with her hand up like an ear-trumpet , and her flouncing , bouncing daughter .
her great figure danced about with a wonderful lightness , and she tossed her head and pouted her lips as she answered back to the old , bent figure that addressed her .
jim and i had forgotten our tears , and were holding our ribs before she came to the end of it .
" that is better , " said she , smiling at our laughter .
" i would not have you go back to friar 's oak with long faces , or maybe they would not let you come to me again . "
she vanished into her cupboard , and came out with a bottle and glass , which she placed upon the table .
" you are too young for strong waters , " she said , " but this talking gives one a dryness , and-- "
then it was that boy jim did a wonderful thing .
he rose from his chair , and he laid his hand upon the bottle .
" don 't ! " said he .
she looked him in the face , and i can still see those black eyes of hers softening before the gaze .
" am i to have none ? "
" please , don 't . "
with a quick movement she wrested the bottle out of his hand and raised it up so that for a moment it entered my head that she was about to drink it off .
then she flung it through the open lattice , and we heard the crash of it on the path outside .
" there , jim ! " said she ; " does that satisfy you ?
it 's long since any one cared whether i drank or no . "
" you are too good and kind for that , " said he .
" good ! " she cried . " well , i love that you should think me so .
and it would make you happier if i kept from the brandy , jim ?
well , then , i 'll make you a promise , if you 'll make me one in return . "
" what 's that , miss ? "
" no drop shall pass my lips , jim , if you will swear , wet or shine , blow or snow , to come up here twice in every week , that i may see you and speak with you , for , indeed , there are times when i am very lonesome . "
so the promise was made , and very faithfully did jim keep it , for many a time when i have wanted him to go fishing or rabbit-snaring , he has remembered that it was his day for miss hinton , and has tramped off to anstey cross .
at first i think that she found her share of the bargain hard to keep , and i have seen jim come back with a black face on him , as if things were going amiss .
but after a time the fight was won--as all fights are won if one does but fight long enough--and in the year before my father came back miss hinton had become another woman .
and it was not her ways only , but herself as well , for from being the person that i have described , she became in one twelve-month as fine a looking lady as there was in the whole country-side .
jim was prouder of it by far than of anything he had had a hand in in his life , but it was only to me that he ever spoke about it , for he had that tenderness towards her that one has for those whom one has helped .
and she helped him also , for by her talk of the world and of what she had seen , she took his mind away from the sussex country-side and prepared it for a broader life beyond .
so matters stood between them at the time when peace was made and my father came home from the sea .
chapter iv--the peace of amiens
many a woman 's knee was on the ground , and many a woman 's soul spent itself in joy and thankfulness when the news came with the fall of the leaf in 1801 that the preliminaries of peace had been settled .
all england waved her gladness by day and twinkled it by night .
even in little friar 's oak we had our flags flying bravely , and a candle in every window , with a big g.r. guttering in the wind over the door of the inn .
folk were weary of the war , for we had been at it for eight years , taking holland , and spain , and france each in turn and all together .
all that we had learned during that time was that our little army was no match for the french on land , and that our large navy was more than a match for them upon the water .
we had gained some credit , which we were sorely in need of after the american business ; and a few colonies , which were welcome also for the same reason ; but our debt had gone on rising and our consols sinking , until even pitt stood aghast .
still , if we had known that there never could be peace between napoleon and ourselves , and that this was only the end of a round and not of the battle , we should have been better advised had we fought it out without a break .
as it was , the french got back the twenty thousand good seamen whom we had captured , and a fine dance they led us with their boulogne flotillas and fleets of invasion before we were able to catch them again .
my father , as i remember him best , was a tough , strong little man , of no great breadth , but solid and well put together .
his face was burned of a reddish colour , as bright as a flower-pot , and in spite of his age ( for he was only forty at the time of which i speak ) it was shot with lines , which deepened if he were in any way perturbed , so that i have seen him turn on the instant from a youngish man to an elderly .
his eyes especially were meshed round with wrinkles , as is natural for one who had puckered them all his life in facing foul wind and bitter weather .
these eyes were , perhaps , his strangest feature , for they were of a very clear and beautiful blue , which shone the brighter out of that ruddy setting .
by nature he must have been a fair-skinned man , for his upper brow , where his cap came over it , was as white as mine , and his close-cropped hair was tawny .
he had served , as he was proud to say , in the last of our ships which had been chased out of the mediterranean in ' 97 , and in the first which had re-entered it in ' 98 .
he was under miller , as third lieutenant of the theseus , when our fleet , like a pack of eager fox hounds in a covert , was dashing from sicily to syria and back again to naples , trying to pick up the lost scent .
with the same good fighting man he served at the nile , where the men of his command sponged and rammed and trained until , when the last tricolour had come down , they hove up the sheet anchor and fell dead asleep upon the top of each other under the capstan bars .
then , as a second lieutenant , he was in one of those grim three-deckers with powder- blackened hulls and crimson scupper-holes , their spare cables tied round their keels and over their bulwarks to hold them together , which carried the news into the bay of naples .
from thence , as a reward for his services , he was transferred as first lieutenant to the aurora frigate , engaged in cutting off supplies from genoa , and in her he still remained until long after peace was declared .
how well i can remember his home-coming !
though it is now eight- and-forty years ago , it is clearer to me than the doings of last week , for the memory of an old man is like one of those glasses which shows out what is at a distance and blurs all that is near .
my mother had been in a tremble ever since the first rumour of the preliminaries came to our ears , for she knew that he might come as soon as his message .
she said little , but she saddened my life by insisting that i should be for ever clean and tidy .
with every rumble of wheels , too , her eyes would glance towards the door , and her hands steal up to smooth her pretty black hair .
she had embroidered a white " welcome " upon a blue ground , with an anchor in red upon each side , and a border of laurel leaves ; and this was to hang upon the two lilac bushes which flanked the cottage door .
he could not have left the mediterranean before we had this finished , and every morning she looked to see if it were in its place and ready to be hanged .
but it was a weary time before the peace was ratified , and it was april of next year before our great day came round to us .
it had been raining all morning , i remember--a soft spring rain , which sent up a rich smell from the brown earth and pattered pleasantly upon the budding chestnuts behind our cottage .
the sun had shone out in the evening , and i had come down with my fishing-rod ( for i had promised boy jim to go with him to the mill-stream ) , when what should i see but a post-chaise with two smoking horses at the gate , and there in the open door of it were my mother 's black skirt and her little feet jutting out , with two blue arms for a waist-belt , and all the rest of her buried in the chaise .
away i ran for the motto , and i pinned it up on the bushes as we had agreed , but when i had finished there were the skirts and the feet and the blue arms just the same as before .
" here 's rod , " said my mother at last , struggling down on to the ground again .
" roddy , darling , here 's your father ! "
i saw the red face and the kindly , light-blue eyes looking out at me .
" why , roddy , lad , you were but a child and we kissed good-bye when last we met ; but i suppose we must put you on a different rating now .
i 'm right glad from my heart to see you , dear lad ; and as to you , sweetheart-- "
the blue arms flew out , and there were the skirt and the two feet fixed in the door again .
" here are the folk coming , anson , " said my mother , blushing .
" won 't you get out and come in with us ? "
and then suddenly it came home to us both that for all his cheery face he had never moved more than his arms , and that his leg was resting on the opposite seat of the chaise .
" oh , anson , anson ! " she cried .
" tut , ' tis but the bone of my leg , " said he , taking his knee between his hands and lifting it round .
" i got it broke in the bay , but the surgeon has fished it and spliced it , though it 's a bit crank yet .
why , bless her kindly heart , if i haven 't turned her from pink to white .
you can see for yourself that it 's nothing . "
he sprang out as he spoke , and with one leg and a staff he hopped swiftly up the path , and under the laurel-bordered motto , and so over his own threshold for the first time for five years .
when the post-boy and i had carried up the sea-chest and the two canvas bags , there he was sitting in his armchair by the window in his old weather-stained blue coat .
my mother was weeping over his poor leg , and he patting her hair with one brown hand .
his other he threw round my waist , and drew me to the side of his chair .
" now that we have peace , i can lie up and refit until king george needs me again , " said he .
" ' twas a carronade that came adrift in the bay when it was blowing a top-gallant breeze with a beam sea .
ere we could make it fast it had me jammed against the mast .
well , well , " he added , looking round at the walls of the room , " here are all my old curios , the same as ever : the narwhal 's horn from the arctic , and the blowfish from the moluccas , and the paddles from fiji , and the picture of the ca ira with lord hotham in chase .
and here you are , mary , and you also , roddy , and good luck to the carronade which has sent me into so snug a harbour without fear of sailing orders . "
my mother had his long pipe and his tobacco all ready for him , so that he was able now to light it and to sit looking from one of us to the other and then back again , as if he could never see enough of us .
young as i was , i could still understand that this was the moment which he had thought of during many a lonely watch , and that the expectation of it had cheered his heart in many a dark hour .
sometimes he would touch one of us with his hand , and sometimes the other , and so he sat , with his soul too satiated for words , whilst the shadows gathered in the little room and the lights of the inn windows glimmered through the gloom .
and then , after my mother had lit our own lamp , she slipped suddenly down upon her knees , and he got one knee to the ground also , so that , hand-in-hand , they joined their thanks to heaven for manifold mercies .
when i look back at my parents as they were in those days , it is at that very moment that i can picture them most clearly : her sweet face with the wet shining upon her cheeks , and his blue eyes upturned to the smoke-blackened ceiling .
i remember that he swayed his reeking pipe in the earnestness of his prayer , so that i was half tears and half smiles as i watched him .
" roddy , lad , " said he , after supper was over , " you 're getting a man now , and i suppose you will go afloat like the rest of us .
you 're old enough to strap a dirk to your thigh . "
" and leave me without a child as well as without a husband ! " cried my mother .
" well , there 's time enough yet , " said he , " for they are more inclined to empty berths than to fill them , now that peace has come .
but i 've never tried what all this schooling has done for you , rodney .
you have had a great deal more than ever i had , but i dare say i can make shift to test it .
have you learned history ? "
" yes , father , " said i , with some confidence .
" then how many sail of the line were at the battle of camperdown ? "
he shook his head gravely when he found that i could not answer him .
" why , there are men in the fleet who never had any schooling at all who could tell you that we had seven 74 's , seven 64 's , and two 50- gun ships in the action .
there 's a picture on the wall of the chase of the ca ira .
which were the ships that laid her aboard ? "
again i had to confess that he had beaten me .
" well , your dad can teach you something in history yet , " he cried , looking in triumph at my mother .
" have you learned geography ? "
" yes , father , " said i , though with less confidence than before .
" well , how far is it from port mahon to algeciras ? "
i could only shake my head .
" if ushant lay three leagues upon your starboard quarter , what would be your nearest english port ? "
again i had to give it up .
" well , i don 't see that your geography is much better than your history , " said he .
" you 'd never get your certificate at this rate .
can you do addition ?
well , then , let us see if you can tot up my prize-money . "
he shot a mischievous glance at my mother as he spoke , and she laid down her knitting on her lap and looked very earnestly at him .
" you never asked me about that , mary , " said he .
" the mediterranean is not the station for it , anson .
i have heard you say that it is the atlantic for prize-money , and the mediterranean for honour . "
" i had a share of both last cruise , which comes from changing a line-of-battleship for a frigate .
now , rodney , there are two pounds in every hundred due to me when the prize-courts have done with them .
when we were watching massena , off genoa , we got a matter of seventy schooners , brigs , and tartans , with wine , food , and powder .
lord keith will want his finger in the pie , but that 's for the courts to settle .
put them at four pounds apiece to me , and what will the seventy bring ? "
" two hundred and eighty pounds , " i answered .
" why , anson , it is a fortune ! " cried my mother , clapping her hands .
" try you again , roddy ! " said he , shaking his pipe at me .
" there was the xebec frigate out of barcelona with twenty thousand spanish dollars aboard , which make four thousand of our pounds .
her hull should be worth another thousand . what 's my share of that ? "
" a hundred pounds . "
" why , the purser couldn 't work it out quicker , " he cried in his delight .
" here 's for you again !
we passed the straits and worked up to the azores , where we fell in with the la sabina from the mauritius with sugar and spices .
twelve hundred pounds she 's worth to me , mary , my darling , and never again shall you soil your pretty fingers or pinch upon my beggarly pay .
my dear mother had borne her long struggle without a sign all these years , but now that she was so suddenly eased of it she fell sobbing upon his neck .
it was a long time before my father had a thought to spare upon my examination in arithmetic .
" it 's all in your lap , mary , " said he , dashing his own hand across his eyes .
" by george , lass , when this leg of mine is sound we 'll bear down for a spell to brighton , and if there is a smarter frock than yours upon the steyne , may i never tread a poop again .
but how is it that you are so quick at figures , rodney , when you know nothing of history or geography ? "
i tried to explain that addition was the same upon sea or land , but that history and geography were not .
" well , " he concluded , " you need figures to take a reckoning , and you need nothing else save what your mother wit will teach you .
there never was one of our breed who did not take to salt water like a young gull .
lord nelson has promised me a vacancy for you , and he 'll be as good as his word . "
so it was that my father came home to us , and a better or kinder no lad could wish for .
though my parents had been married so long , they had really seen very little of each other , and their affection was as warm and as fresh as if they were two newly-wedded lovers .
i have learned since that sailors can be coarse and foul , but never did i know it from my father ; for , although he had seen as much rough work as the wildest could wish for , he was always the same patient , good-humoured man , with a smile and a jolly word for all the village .
he could suit himself to his company , too , for on the one hand he could take his wine with the vicar , or with sir james ovington , the squire of the parish ; while on the other he would sit by the hour amongst my humble friends down in the smithy , with champion harrison , boy jim , and the rest of them , telling them such stories of nelson and his men that i have seen the champion knot his great hands together , while jim 's eyes have smouldered like the forge embers as he listened .
my father had been placed on half-pay , like so many others of the old war officers , and so , for nearly two years , he was able to remain with us .
during all this time i can only once remember that there was the slightest disagreement between him and my mother .
it chanced that i was the cause of it , and as great events sprang out of it , i must tell you how it came about .
it was indeed the first of a series of events which affected not only my fortunes , but those of very much more important people .
the spring of 1803 was an early one , and the middle of april saw the leaves thick upon the chestnut trees .
one evening we were all seated together over a dish of tea when we heard the scrunch of steps outside our door , and there was the postman with a letter in his hand .
" i think it is for me , " said my mother , and sure enough it was addressed in the most beautiful writing to mrs. mary stone , of friar 's oak , and there was a red seal the size of a half-crown upon the outside of it with a flying dragon in the middle .
" whom think you that it is from , anson ? " she asked .
" i had hoped that it was from lord nelson , " answered my father .
" it is time the boy had his commission .
but if it be for you , then it cannot be from any one of much importance . "
" can it not ! " she cried , pretending to be offended .
" you will ask my pardon for that speech , sir , for it is from no less a person than sir charles tregellis , my own brother . "
my mother seemed to speak with a hushed voice when she mentioned this wonderful brother of hers , and always had done as long as i can remember , so that i had learned also to have a subdued and reverent feeling when i heard his name .
and indeed it was no wonder , for that name was never mentioned unless it were in connection with something brilliant and extraordinary .
once we heard that he was at windsor with the king . often he was at brighton with the prince .
sometimes it was as a sportsman that his reputation reached us , as when his meteor beat the duke of queensberry 's egham , at newmarket , or when he brought jim belcher up from bristol , and sprang him upon the london fancy .
but usually it was as the friend of the great , the arbiter of fashions , the king of bucks , and the best-dressed man in town that his reputation reached us .
my father , however , did not appear to be elated at my mother 's triumphant rejoinder .
" ay , and what does he want ? " asked he , in no very amiable voice .
" i wrote to him , anson , and told him that rodney was growing a man now , thinking , since he had no wife or child of his own , he might be disposed to advance him . "
" we can do very well without him , " growled my father .
" he sheered off from us when the weather was foul , and we have no need of him now that the sun is shining . "
" nay , you misjudge him , anson , " said my mother , warmly .
" there is no one with a better heart than charles ; but his own life moves so smoothly that he cannot understand that others may have trouble .
during all these years i have known that i had but to say the word to receive as much as i wished from him . "
" thank god that you never had to stoop to it , mary .
i want none of his help . "
" but we must think of rodney . "
" rodney has enough for his sea-chest and kit .
he needs no more . "
" but charles has great power and influence in london .
he could make rodney known to all the great people .
surely you would not stand in the way of his advancement . "
" let us hear what he says , then , " said my father ; and this was the letter which she read to him -
14 , jermyn street , st. james 's , " april 15th , 1803 .
" my dear sister mary ,
" in answer to your letter , i can assure you that you must not conceive me to be wanting in those finer feelings which are the chief adornment of humanity .
it is true that for some years , absorbed as i have been in affairs of the highest importance , i have seldom taken a pen in hand , for which i can assure you that i have been reproached by many des plus charmantes of your charming sex .
at the present moment i lie abed ( having stayed late in order to pay a compliment to the marchioness of dover at her ball last night ) , and this is writ to my dictation by ambrose , my clever rascal of a valet .
i am interested to hear of my nephew rodney ( mon dieu , quel nom ! ) , and as i shall be on my way to visit the prince at brighton next week , i shall break my journey at friar 's oak for the sake of seeing both you and him .
make my compliments to your husband .
" i am ever , my dear sister mary , " your brother , " charles tregellis . "
" what do you think of that ? " cried my mother in triumph when she had finished .
" i think it is the letter of a fop , " said my father , bluntly .
" you are too hard on him , anson .
you will think better of him when you know him .
but he says that he will be here next week , and this is thursday , and the best curtains unhung , and no lavender in the sheets ! "
away she bustled , half distracted , while my father sat moody , with his chin upon his hands , and i remained lost in wonder at the thought of this grand new relative from london , and of all that his coming might mean to us .
chapter v--buck tregellis
now that i was in my seventeenth year , and had already some need for a razor , i had begun to weary of the narrow life of the village , and to long to see something of the great world beyond .
the craving was all the stronger because i durst not speak openly about it , for the least hint of it brought the tears into my mother 's eyes .
but now there was the less reason that i should stay at home , since my father was at her side , and so my mind was all filled by this prospect of my uncle 's visit , and of the chance that he might set my feet moving at last upon the road of life .
as you may think , it was towards my father 's profession that my thoughts and my hopes turned , for from my childhood i have never seen the heave of the sea or tasted the salt upon my lips without feeling the blood of five generations of seamen thrill within my veins .
and think of the challenge which was ever waving in those days before the eyes of a coast-living lad !
i had but to walk up to wolstonbury in the war time to see the sails of the french chasse- marees and privateers .
again and again i have heard the roar of the guns coming from far out over the waters .
seamen would tell us how they had left london and been engaged ere nightfall , or sailed out of portsmouth and been yard-arm to yard-arm before they had lost sight of st. helen 's light .
it was this imminence of the danger which warmed our hearts to our sailors , and made us talk , round the winter fires , of our little nelson , and cuddie collingwood , and johnnie jarvis , and the rest of them , not as being great high admirals with titles and dignities , but as good friends whom we loved and honoured above all others .
what boy was there through the length and breadth of britain who did not long to be out with them under the red-cross flag ?
but now that peace had come , and the fleets which had swept the channel and the mediterranean were lying dismantled in our harbours , there was less to draw one 's fancy seawards .
it was london now of which i thought by day and brooded by night : the huge city , the home of the wise and the great , from which came this constant stream of carriages , and those crowds of dusty people who were for ever flashing past our window-pane .
it was this one side of life which first presented itself to me , and so , as a boy , i used to picture the city as a gigantic stable with a huge huddle of coaches , which were for ever streaming off down the country roads .
but , then , champion harrison told me how the fighting-men lived there , and my father how the heads of the navy lived there , and my mother how her brother and his grand friends were there , until at last i was consumed with impatience to see this marvellous heart of england .
this coming of my uncle , then , was the breaking of light through the darkness , though i hardly dared to hope that he would take me with him into those high circles in which he lived .
my mother , however , had such confidence either in his good nature or in her own powers of persuasion , that she already began to make furtive preparations for my departure .
but if the narrowness of the village life chafed my easy spirit , it was a torture to the keen and ardent mind of boy jim .
it was but a few days after the coming of my uncle 's letter that we walked over the downs together , and i had a peep of the bitterness of his heart .
" what is there for me to do , rodney ? " he cried .
" i forge a shoe , and i fuller it , and i clip it , and i caulken it , and i knock five holes in it , and there it is finished .
then i do it again and again , and blow up the bellows and feed the forge , and rasp a hoof or two , and there is a day 's work done , and every day the same as the other .
was it for this only , do you think , that i was born into the world ? "
i looked at him , his proud , eagle face , and his tall , sinewy figure , and i wondered whether in the whole land there was a finer , handsomer man .
" the army or the navy is the place for you , jim , " said i .
" that is very well , " he cried .
" if you go into the navy , as you are likely to do , you go as an officer , and it is you who do the ordering .
if i go in , it is as one who was born to receive orders . "
" an officer gets his orders from those above him . "
" but an officer does not have the lash hung over his head .
i saw a poor fellow at the inn here--it was some years ago--who showed us his back in the tap-room , all cut into red diamonds with the boat- swain 's whip .
'who ordered that ? ' i asked .
'the captain , ' said he .
'and what would you have had if you had struck him dead ? ' said i .
'the yard-arm , ' he answered .
'then if i had been you that 's where i should have been , ' said i , and i spoke the truth .
i can 't help it , rod !
there 's something here in my heart , something that is as much a part of myself as this hand is , which holds me to it . "
" i know that you are as proud as lucifer , " said i .
" it was born with me , roddy , and i can 't help it .
life would be easier if i could .
i was made to be my own master , and there 's only one place where i can hope to be so . "
" where is that , jim ? "
" in london .
miss hinton has told me of it , until i feel as if i could find my way through it from end to end .
she loves to talk of it as well as i do to listen .
i have it all laid out in my mind , and i can see where the playhouses are , and how the river runs , and where the king 's house is , and the prince 's , and the place where the fighting-men live .
i could make my name known in london . "
" how ? "
" never mind how , rod .
i could do it , and i will do it , too .
'wait ! ' says my uncle-- ' wait , and it will all come right for you . '
that is what he always says , and my aunt the same .
why should i wait ?
what am i to wait for ?
no , roddy , i 'll stay no longer eating my heart out in this little village , but i 'll leave my apron behind me and i 'll seek my fortune in london , and when i come back to friar 's oak , it will be in such style as that gentleman yonder . "
he pointed as he spoke , and there was a high crimson curricle coming down the london road , with two bay mares harnessed tandem fashion before it .
the reins and fittings were of a light fawn colour , and the gentleman had a driving-coat to match , with a servant in dark livery behind .
they flashed past us in a rolling cloud of dust , and i had just a glimpse of the pale , handsome face of the master , and of the dark , shrivelled features of the man .
i should never have given them another thought had it not chanced that when the village came into view there was the curricle again , standing at the door of the inn , and the grooms busy taking out the horses .
" jim , " i cried , " i believe it is my uncle ! " and taking to my heels i ran for home at the top of my speed .
at the door was standing the dark-faced servant .
he carried a cushion , upon which lay a small and fluffy lapdog .
" you will excuse me , young sir , " said he , in the suavest , most soothing of voices , " but am i right in supposing that this is the house of lieutenant stone ?
in that case you will , perhaps , do me the favour to hand to mrs. stone this note which her brother , sir charles tregellis , has just committed to my care . "
i was quite abashed by the man 's flowery way of talking--so unlike anything which i had ever heard .
he had a wizened face , and sharp little dark eyes , which took in me and the house and my mother 's startled face at the window all in the instant .
my parents were together , the two of them , in the sitting-room , and my mother read the note to us .
" my dear mary , " it ran , " i have stopped at the inn , because i am somewhat ravage by the dust of your sussex roads .
a lavender-water bath may restore me to a condition in which i may fitly pay my compliments to a lady .
meantime , i send you fidelio as a hostage .
pray give him a half-pint of warmish milk with six drops of pure brandy in it .
a better or more faithful creature never lived . toujours a toi.--charles. "
" have him in !
have him in ! " cried my father , heartily , running to the door .
" come in , mr. fidelio .
every man to his own taste , and six drops to the half-pint seems a sinful watering of grog--but if you like it so , you shall have it . "
a smile flickered over the dark face of the servant , but his features reset themselves instantly into their usual mask of respectful observance .
" you are labouring under a slight error , sir , if you will permit me to say so .
my name is ambrose , and i have the honour to be the valet of sir charles tregellis .
this is fidelio upon the cushion . "
" tut , the dog ! " cried my father , in disgust .
" heave him down by the fireside .
why should he have brandy , when many a christian has to go without ? "
" hush , anson ! " said my mother , taking the cushion .
" you will tell sir charles that his wishes shall be carried out , and that we shall expect him at his own convenience . "
the man went off noiselessly and swiftly , but was back in a few minutes with a flat brown basket .
" it is the refection , madam , " said he .
" will you permit me to lay the table ?
sir charles is accustomed to partake of certain dishes and to drink certain wines , so that we usually bring them with us when we visit . "
he opened the basket , and in a minute he had the table all shining with silver and glass , and studded with dainty dishes .
so quick and neat and silent was he in all he did , that my father was as taken with him as i was .
" you 'd have made a right good foretopman if your heart is as stout as your fingers are quick , " said he .
" did you never wish to have the honour of serving your country ? "
" it is my honour , sir , to serve sir charles tregellis , and i desire no other master , " he answered .
" but i will convey his dressing-case from the inn , and then all will be ready . "
he came back with a great silver-mounted box under his arm , and close at his heels was the gentleman whose coming had made such a disturbance .
my first impression of my uncle as he entered the room was that one of his eyes was swollen to the size of an apple .
it caught the breath from my lips--that monstrous , glistening eye .
but the next instant i perceived that he held a round glass in the front of it , which magnified it in this fashion .
he looked at us each in turn , and then he bowed very gracefully to my mother and kissed her upon either cheek .
" you will permit me to compliment you , my dear mary , " said he , in a voice which was the most mellow and beautiful that i have ever heard .
" i can assure you that the country air has used you wondrous well , and that i should be proud to see my pretty sister in the mall .
i am your servant , sir , " he continued , holding out his hand to my father .
" it was but last week that i had the honour of dining with my friend , lord st. vincent , and i took occasion to mention you to him .
i may tell you that your name is not forgotten at the admiralty , sir , and i hope that i may see you soon walking the poop of a 74-gun ship of your own .
so this is my nephew , is it ? "
he put a hand upon each of my shoulders in a very friendly way and looked me up and down .
" how old are you , nephew ? " he asked .
" seventeen , sir . "
" you look older .
you look eighteen , at the least .
i find him very passable , mary--very passable , indeed .
he has not the bel air , the tournure--in our uncouth english we have no word for it . but he is as healthy as a may-hedge in bloom . "
so within a minute of his entering our door he had got himself upon terms with all of us , and with so easy and graceful a manner that it seemed as if he had known us all for years .
i had a good look at him now as he stood upon the hearthrug with my mother upon one side and my father on the other .
he was a very large man , with noble shoulders , small waist , broad hips , well-turned legs , and the smallest of hands and feet .
his face was pale and handsome , with a prominent chin , a jutting nose , and large blue staring eyes , in which a sort of dancing , mischievous light was for ever playing .
he wore a deep brown coat with a collar as high as his ears and tails as low as his knees .
his black breeches and silk stockings ended in very small pointed shoes , so highly polished that they twinkled with every movement .
his vest was of black velvet , open at the top to show an embroidered shirt-front , with a high , smooth , white cravat above it , which kept his neck for ever on the stretch .
he stood easily , with one thumb in the arm-pit , and two fingers of the other hand in his vest pocket .
it made me proud as i watched him to think that so magnificent a man , with such easy , masterful ways , should be my own blood relation , and i could see from my mother 's eyes as they turned towards him that the same thought was in her mind .
all this time ambrose had been standing like a dark-clothed , bronze- faced image by the door , with the big silver-bound box under his arm .
he stepped forward now into the room .
" shall i convey it to your bedchamber , sir charles ? " he asked .
" ah , pardon me , sister mary , " cried my uncle , " i am old-fashioned enough to have principles--an anachronism , i know , in this lax age .
one of them is never to allow my batterie de toilette out of my sight when i am travelling .
i cannot readily forget the agonies which i endured some years ago through neglecting this precaution .
i will do ambrose the justice to say that it was before he took charge of my affairs .
i was compelled to wear the same ruffles upon two consecutive days .
on the third morning my fellow was so affected by the sight of my condition , that he burst into tears and laid out a pair which he had stolen from me . "
as he spoke his face was very grave , but the light in his eyes danced and gleamed .
he handed his open snuff-box to my father , as ambrose followed my mother out of the room .
" you number yourself in an illustrious company by upping your finger and thumb into it , " said he .
" indeed , sir ! " said my father , shortly .
" you are free of my box , as being a relative by marriage .
you are free also , nephew , and i pray you to take a pinch . it is the most intimate sign of my goodwill .
outside ourselves there are four , i think , who have had access to it--the prince , of course ; mr pitt ; monsieur otto , the french ambassador ; and lord hawkesbury .
i have sometimes thought that i was premature with lord hawkesbury . "
" i am vastly honoured , sir , " said my father , looking suspiciously at his guest from under his shaggy eyebrows , for with that grave face and those twinkling eyes it was hard to know how to take him .
" a woman , sir , has her love to bestow , " said my uncle . " a man has his snuff-box . neither is to be lightly offered .
it is a lapse of taste ; nay , more , it is a breach of morals .
only the other day , as i was seated in watier 's , my box of prime macouba open upon the table beside me , an irish bishop thrust in his intrusive fingers .
'waiter , ' i cried , ' my box has been soiled !
remove it ! ' the man meant no insult , you understand , but that class of people must be kept in their proper sphere . '
" a bishop ! " cried my father . " you draw your line very high , sir . "
" yes , sir , " said my uncle ; " i wish no better epitaph upon my tombstone . "
my mother had in the meanwhile descended , and we all drew up to the table .
" you will excuse my apparent grossness , mary , in venturing to bring my own larder with me .
abernethy has me under his orders , and i must eschew your rich country dainties .
a little white wine and a cold bird--it is as much as the niggardly scotchman will allow me . "
" we should have you on blockading service when the levanters are blowing , " said my father .
" salt junk and weevilly biscuits , with a rib of a tough barbary ox when the tenders come in .
you would have your spare diet there , sir . "
straightway my uncle began to question him about the sea service , and for the whole meal my father was telling him of the nile and of the toulon blockade , and the siege of genoa , and all that he had seen and done .
but whenever he faltered for a word , my uncle always had it ready for him , and it was hard to say which knew most about the business .
" no , i read little or nothing , " said he , when my father marvelled where he got his knowledge .
" the fact is that i can hardly pick up a print without seeing some allusion to myself : ' sir c. t. does this , ' or ' sir c. t. says the other , ' so i take them no longer .
but if a man is in my position all knowledge comes to him .
the duke of york tells me of the army in the morning , and lord spencer chats with me of the navy in the afternoon , and dundas whispers me what is going forward in the cabinet , so that i have little need of the times or the morning chronicle . "
this set him talking of the great world of london , telling my father about the men who were his masters at the admiralty , and my mother about the beauties of the town , and the great ladies at almack 's , but all in the same light , fanciful way , so that one never knew whether to laugh or to take him gravely .
i think it flattered him to see the way in which we all three hung upon his words .
of some he thought highly and of some lowly , but he made no secret that the highest of all , and the one against whom all others should be measured , was sir charles tregellis himself .
" as to the king , " said he , " of course , i am l 'ami de famille there ; and even with you i can scarce speak freely , as my relations are confidential . "
" god bless him and keep him from ill ! " cried my father .
" it is pleasant to hear you say so , " said my uncle .
" one has to come into the country to hear honest loyalty , for a sneer and a gibe are more the fashions in town .
the king is grateful to me for the interest which i have ever shown in his son .
he likes to think that the prince has a man of taste in his circle . "
" and the prince ? " asked my mother . " is he well-favoured ? "
" he is a fine figure of a man .
at a distance he has been mistaken for me .
and he has some taste in dress , though he gets slovenly if i am too long away from him .
i warrant you that i find a crease in his coat to-morrow . "
we were all seated round the fire by this time , for the evening had turned chilly .
the lamp was lighted and so also was my father 's pipe .
" i suppose , " said he , " that this is your first visit to friar 's oak ? "
my uncle 's face turned suddenly very grave and stern .
" it is my first visit for many years , " said he .
" i was but one-and- twenty years of age when last i came here .
i am not likely to forget it . "
i knew that he spoke of his visit to cliffe royal at the time of the murder , and i saw by her face that my mother knew it also .
my father , however , had either never heard of it , or had forgotten the circumstance .
" was it at the inn you stayed ? " he asked .
" i stayed with the unfortunate lord avon .
it was the occasion when he was accused of slaying his younger brother and fled from the country . "
we all fell silent , and my uncle leaned his chin upon his hand , looking thoughtfully into the fire .
if i do but close my eyes now , i can see the light upon his proud , handsome face , and see also my dear father , concerned at having touched upon so terrible a memory , shooting little slanting glances at him betwixt the puffs of his pipe .
" i dare say that it has happened with you , sir , " said my uncle at last , " that you have lost some dear messmate , in battle or wreck , and that you have put him out of your mind in the routine of your daily life , until suddenly some word or some scene brings him back to your memory , and you find your sorrow as raw as upon the first day of your loss . "
my father nodded .
" so it is with me to-night .
i never formed a close friendship with a man--i say nothing of women--save only the once . that was with lord avon .
we were of an age , he a few years perhaps my senior , but our tastes , our judgments , and our characters were alike , save only that he had in him a touch of pride such as i have never known in any other man .
putting aside the little foibles of a rich young man of fashion , les indescretions d 'une jeunesse doree , i could have sworn that he was as good a man as i have ever known . "
" how came he , then , to such a crime ? " asked my father .
my uncle shook his head .
" many a time have i asked myself that question , and it comes home to me more to-night than ever . "
all the jauntiness had gone out of his manner , and he had turned suddenly into a sad and serious man .
" was it certain that he did it , charles ? " asked my mother .
my uncle shrugged his shoulders .
" i wish i could think it were not so .
i have thought sometimes that it was this very pride , turning suddenly to madness , which drove him to it .
you have heard how he returned the money which we had lost ? "
" nay , i have heard nothing of it , " my father answered .
" it is a very old story now , though we have not yet found an end to it .
we had played for two days , the four of us : lord avon , his brother captain barrington , sir lothian hume , and myself .
of the captain i knew little , save that he was not of the best repute , and was deep in the hands of the jews .
sir lothian has made an evil name for himself since-- ' tis the same sir lothian who shot lord carton in the affair at chalk farm--but in those days there was nothing against him .
the oldest of us was but twenty-four , and we gamed on , as i say , until the captain had cleared the board .
we were all hit , but our host far the hardest .
" that night--i tell you now what it would be a bitter thing for me to tell in a court of law--i was restless and sleepless , as often happens when a man has kept awake over long .
my mind would dwell upon the fall of the cards , and i was tossing and turning in my bed , when suddenly a cry fell upon my ears , and then a second louder one , coming from the direction of captain barrington 's room .
five minutes later i heard steps passing down the passage , and , without striking a light , i opened my door and peeped out , thinking that some one was taken unwell .
there was lord avon walking towards me .
in one hand he held a guttering candle and in the other a brown bag , which chinked as he moved .
his face was all drawn and distorted--so much so that my question was frozen upon my lips .
before i could utter it he turned into his chamber and softly closed the door .
" next morning i was awakened by finding him at my bedside .
" ' charles , ' said he , ' i cannot abide to think that you should have lost this money in my house .
you will find it here upon your table . '
" it was in vain that i laughed at his squeamishness , telling him that i should most certainly have claimed my money had i won , so that it would be strange indeed if i were not permitted to pay it when i lost .
" ' neither i nor my brother will touch it , ' said he .
'there it lies , and you may do what you like about it . '
" he would listen to no argument , but dashed out of the room like a madman .
but perhaps these details are familiar to you , and god knows they are painful to me to tell . "
my father was sitting with staring eyes , and his forgotten pipe reeking in his hand .
" pray let us hear the end of it , sir , " he cried .
" well , then , i had finished my toilet in an hour or so--for i was less exigeant in those days than now--and i met sir lothian hume at breakfast .
his experience had been the same as my own , and he was eager to see captain barrington ; and to ascertain why he had directed his brother to return the money to us .
we were talking the matter over when suddenly i raised my eyes to the corner of the ceiling , and i saw--i saw-- "
my uncle had turned quite pale with the vividness of the memory , and he passed his hand over his eyes .
" it was crimson , " said he , with a shudder-- " crimson with black cracks , and from every crack--but i will give you dreams , sister mary .
suffice it that we rushed up the stair which led direct to the captain 's room , and there we found him lying with the bone gleaming white through his throat .
a hunting-knife lay in the room- -and the knife was lord avon 's .
a lace ruffle was found in the dead man 's grasp--and the ruffle was lord avon 's .
some papers were found charred in the grate--and the papers were lord avon 's .
oh , my poor friend , in what moment of madness did you come to do such a deed ? "
the light had gone out of my uncle 's eyes and the extravagance from his manner .
his speech was clear and plain , with none of those strange london ways which had so amazed me .
here was a second uncle , a man of heart and a man of brains , and i liked him better than the first .
" and what said lord avon ? " cried my father .
" he said nothing .
he went about like one who walks in his sleep , with horror-stricken eyes .
none dared arrest him until there should be due inquiry , but when the coroner 's court brought wilful murder against him , the constables came for him in full cry .
but they found him fled .
there was a rumour that he had been seen in westminster in the next week , and then that he had escaped for america , but nothing more is known . it will be a bright day for sir lothian hume when they can prove him dead , for he is next of kin , and till then he can touch neither title nor estate . "
the telling of this grim story had cast a chill upon all of us .
my uncle held out his hands towards the blaze , and i noticed that they were as white as the ruffles which fringed them .
" i know not how things are at cliffe royal now , " said he , thoughtfully .
" it was not a cheery house , even before this shadow fell upon it .
a fitter stage was never set forth for such a tragedy .
but seventeen years have passed , and perhaps even that horrible ceiling-- "
" it still bears the stain , " said i .
i know not which of the three was the more astonished , for my mother had not heard of my adventures of the night .
they never took their wondering eyes off me as i told my story , and my heart swelled with pride when my uncle said that we had carried ourselves well , and that he did not think that many of our age would have stood it as stoutly .
" but as to this ghost , it must have been the creature of your own minds , " said he .
" imagination plays us strange tricks , and though i have as steady a nerve as a man might wish , i cannot answer for what i might see if i were to stand under that blood-stained ceiling at midnight . "
" uncle , " said i , " i saw a figure as plainly as i see that fire , and i heard the steps as clearly as i hear the crackle of the fagots .
besides , we could not both be deceived . "
" there is truth in that , " said be , thoughtfully .
" you saw no features , you say ? "
" it was too dark . "
" but only a figure ? "
" the dark outline of one . "
" and it retreated up the stairs ? "
" yes . "
" and vanished into the wall ? "
" yes . "
" what part of the wall ? " cried a voice from behind us .
my mother screamed , and down came my father 's pipe on to the hearthrug .
i had sprung round with a catch of my breath , and there was the valet , ambrose , his body in the shadow of the doorway , his dark face protruded into the light , and two burning eyes fixed upon mine .
" what the deuce is the meaning of this , sir ? " cried my uncle .
it was strange to see the gleam and passion fade out of the man 's face , and the demure mask of the valet replace it .
his eyes still smouldered , but his features regained their prim composure in an instant .
" i beg your pardon , sir charles , " said he .
" i had come in to ask you if you had any orders for me , and i did not like to interrupt the young gentleman 's story . i am afraid that i have been somewhat carried away by it . "
" i never knew you forget yourself before , " said my uncle .
" you will , i am sure , forgive me , sir charles , if you will call to mind the relation in which i stood to lord avon . "
he spoke with some dignity of manner , and with a bow he left the room .
" we must make some little allowance , " said my uncle , with a sudden return to his jaunty manner .
" when a man can brew a dish of chocolate , or tie a cravat , as ambrose does , he may claim consideration .
the fact is that the poor fellow was valet to lord avon , that he was at cliffe royal upon the fatal night of which i have spoken , and that he is most devoted to his old master .
but my talk has been somewhat triste , sister mary , and now we shall return , if you please , to the dresses of the countess lieven , and the gossip of st. james . "
chapter vi--on the threshold
my father sent me to bed early that night , though i was very eager to stay up , for every word which this man said held my attention .
his face , his manner , the large waves and sweeps of his white hands , his easy air of superiority , his fantastic fashion of talk , all filled me with interest and wonder .
but , as i afterwards learned , their conversation was to be about myself and my own prospects , so i was despatched to my room , whence far into the night i could hear the deep growl of my father and the rich tones of my uncle , with an occasional gentle murmur from my mother , as they talked in the room beneath .
i had dropped asleep at last , when i was awakened suddenly by something wet being pressed against my face , and by two warm arms which were cast round me .
my mother 's cheek was against my own , and i could hear the click of her sobs , and feel her quiver and shake in the darkness .
a faint light stole through the latticed window , and i could dimly see that she was in white , with her black hair loose upon her shoulders .
" you won 't forget us , roddy ?
you won 't forget us ? "
" why , mother , what is it ? "
" your uncle , roddy--he is going to take you away from us . "
" when , mother ? "
" to-morrow . "
god forgive me , how my heart bounded for joy , when hers , which was within touch of it , was breaking with sorrow !
" oh , mother ! " i cried .
" to london ? "
" first to brighton , that he may present you to the prince .
next day to london , where you will meet the great people , roddy , and learn to look down upon--to look down upon your poor , simple , old-fashioned father and mother . "
i put my arms about her to console her , but she wept so that , for all my seventeen years and pride of manhood , it set me weeping also , and with such a hiccoughing noise , since i had not a woman 's knack of quiet tears , that it finally turned her own grief to laughter .
" charles would be flattered if he could see the gracious way in which we receive his kindness , " said she .
" be still , roddy dear , or you will certainly wake him . "
" i 'll not go if it is to grieve you , " i cried .
" nay , dear , you must go , for it may be the one great chance of your life .
and think how proud it will make us all when we hear of you in the company of charles 's grand friends .
but you will promise me not to gamble , roddy ?
you heard to-night of the dreadful things which come from it . "
" i promise you , mother . "
" and you will be careful of wine , roddy ?
you are young and unused to it . "
" yes , mother . "
" and play-actresses also , roddy .
and you will not cast your underclothing until june is in .
young master overton came by his death through it .
think well of your dress , roddy , so as to do your uncle credit , for it is the thing for which he is himself most famed .
you have but to do what he will direct .
but if there is a time when you are not meeting grand people , you can wear out your country things , for your brown coat is as good as new , and the blue one , if it were ironed and relined , would take you through the summer .
i have put out your sunday clothes with the nankeen vest , since you are to see the prince to-morrow , and you will wear your brown silk stockings and buckle shoes .
be guarded in crossing the london streets , for i am told that the hackney coaches are past all imagining .
fold your clothes when you go to bed , roddy , and do not forget your evening prayers , for , oh , my dear boy , the days of temptation are at hand , when i will no longer be with you to help you . "
so with advice and guidance both for this world and the next did my mother , with her soft , warm arms around me , prepare me for the great step which lay before me .
my uncle did not appear at breakfast in the morning , but ambrose brewed him a dish of chocolate and took it to his room .
when at last , about midday , he did descend , he was so fine with his curled hair , his shining teeth , his quizzing glass , his snow-white ruffles , and his laughing eyes , that i could not take my gaze from him .
" well , nephew , " he cried , " what do you think of the prospect of coming to town with me ? "
" i thank you , sir , for the kind interest which you take in me , " said i .
" but you must be a credit to me .
my nephew must be of the best if he is to be in keeping with the rest of me . "
" you 'll find him a chip of good wood , sir , " said my father .
" we must make him a polished chip before we have done with him .
your aim , my dear nephew , must always be to be in bon ton .
it is not a case of wealth , you understand .
mere riches cannot do it .
golden price has forty thousand a year , but his clothes are disastrous . i assure you that i saw him come down st. james 's street the other day , and i was so shocked at his appearance that i had to step into vernet 's for a glass of orange brandy .
no , it is a question of natural taste , and of following the advice and example of those who are more experienced than yourself . "
" i fear , charles , that roddy 's wardrobe is country-made , " said my mother .
" we shall soon set that right when we get to town .
we shall see what stultz or weston can do for him , " my uncle answered .
" we must keep him quiet until he has some clothes to wear . "
this slight upon my best sunday suit brought a flush to my mother 's cheeks , which my uncle instantly observed , for he was quick in noticing trifles .
" the clothes are very well for friar 's oak , sister mary , " said he .
" and yet you can understand that they might seem rococo in the mall .
if you leave him in my hands i shall see to the matter . "
" on how much , sir , " asked my father , " can a young man dress in town ? "
" with prudence and reasonable care , a young man of fashion can dress upon eight hundred a year , " my uncle answered .
i saw my poor father 's face grow longer .
" i fear , sir , that roddy must keep his country clothes , " said he .
" even with my prize-money-- "
" tut , sir ! " cried my uncle .
" i already owe weston something over a thousand , so how can a few odd hundreds affect it ?
if my nephew comes with me , my nephew is my care .
the point is settled , and i must refuse to argue upon it . "
he waved his white hands as if to brush aside all opposition .
my parents tried to thank him , but he cut them short .
" by the way , now that i am in friar 's oak , there is another small piece of business which i have to perform , " said he .
" i believe that there is a fighting-man named harrison here , who at one time might have held the championship .
in those days poor avon and i were his principal backers .
i should like to have a word with him . "
you may think how proud i was to walk down the village street with my magnificent relative , and to note out of the corner of my eye how the folk came to the doors and windows to see us pass .
champion harrison was standing outside the smithy , and he pulled his cap off when he saw my uncle .
" god bless me , sir !
who 'd ha ' thought of seem ' you at friar 's oak ?
why , sir charles , it brings old memories back to look at your face again . "
" glad to see you looking so fit , harrison , " said my uncle , running his eyes over him .
" why , with a week 's training you would be as good a man as ever .
i don 't suppose you scale more than thirteen and a half ? "
