'you couldn 't have wanted it much , ' said alice ; ' living at the bottom of the sea . '
'i couldn 't afford to learn it . ' said the mock turtle with a sigh . ' i only took the regular course . '
'what was that ? ' inquired alice .
'reeling and writhing , of course , to begin with , ' the mock turtle replied ; ' and then the different branches of arithmetic-- ambition , distraction , uglification , and derision . '
'i never heard of " uglification , " ' alice ventured to say .
'what is it ? '
the gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise .
'what ! never heard of uglifying ! ' it exclaimed .
'you know what to beautify is , i suppose ? '
'yes , ' said alice doubtfully : ' it means--to--make--anything--prettier . '
'well , then , ' the gryphon went on , ' if you don 't know what to uglify is , you are a simpleton . '
alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it , so she turned to the mock turtle , and said ' what else had you to learn ? '
'well , there was mystery , ' the mock turtle replied , counting off the subjects on his flappers , ' --mystery , ancient and modern , with seaography : then drawling--the drawling-master was an old conger-eel , that used to come once a week : he taught us drawling , stretching , and fainting in coils . '
'what was that like ? ' said alice .
'well , i can 't show it you myself , ' the mock turtle said : ' i 'm too stiff . and the gryphon never learnt it . '
'hadn 't time , ' said the gryphon : ' i went to the classics master , though . he was an old crab , he was . ' ' i never went to him , ' the mock turtle said with a sigh : ' he taught laughing and grief , they used to say . '
'so he did , so he did , ' said the gryphon , sighing in his turn ; and both creatures hid their faces in their paws .
'and how many hours a day did you do lessons ? ' said alice , in a hurry to change the subject .
'ten hours the first day , ' said the mock turtle : ' nine the next , and so on . '
'what a curious plan ! ' exclaimed alice .
'that 's the reason they 're called lessons , ' the gryphon remarked : ' because they lessen from day to day . '
this was quite a new idea to alice , and she thought it over a little before she made her next remark .
'then the eleventh day must have been a holiday ? '
'of course it was , ' said the mock turtle .
'and how did you manage on the twelfth ? ' alice went on eagerly .
'that 's enough about lessons , ' the gryphon interrupted in a very decided tone : ' tell her something about the games now . '
chapter x the lobster quadrille
the mock turtle sighed deeply , and drew the back of one flapper across his eyes .
he looked at alice , and tried to speak , but for a minute or two sobs choked his voice .
'same as if he had a bone in his throat , ' said the gryphon : and it set to work shaking him and punching him in the back .
at last the mock turtle recovered his voice , and , with tears running down his cheeks , he went on again : --
'you may not have lived much under the sea-- ' ( ' i haven 't , ' said alice ) -- ' and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster-- ' ( alice began to say ' i once tasted-- ' but checked herself hastily , and said ' no , never ' )
'--so you can have no idea what a delightful thing a lobster quadrille is ! '
'no , indeed , ' said alice .
'what sort of a dance is it ? '
'why , ' said the gryphon , ' you first form into a line along the sea-shore--'
'two lines ! ' cried the mock turtle . ' seals , turtles , salmon , and so on ; then , when you 've cleared all the jelly-fish out of the way--'
'that generally takes some time , ' interrupted the gryphon .
'--you advance twice--'
'each with a lobster as a partner ! ' cried the gryphon .
'of course , ' the mock turtle said : ' advance twice , set to partners-- ' '--change lobsters , and retire in same order , ' continued the gryphon .
'then , you know , ' the mock turtle went on , ' you throw the--'
'the lobsters ! ' shouted the gryphon , with a bound into the air .
'--as far out to sea as you can--'
'swim after them ! ' screamed the gryphon .
'turn a somersault in the sea ! ' cried the mock turtle , capering wildly about .
'change lobster 's again ! ' yelled the gryphon at the top of its voice .
'back to land again , and that 's all the first figure , ' said the mock turtle , suddenly dropping his voice ; and the two creatures , who had been jumping about like mad things all this time , sat down again very sadly and quietly , and looked at alice .
'it must be a very pretty dance , ' said alice timidly .
'would you like to see a little of it ? ' said the mock turtle .
'very much indeed , ' said alice .
'come , let 's try the first figure ! ' said the mock turtle to the gryphon . ' we can do without lobsters , you know .
which shall sing ? '
'oh , you sing , ' said the gryphon . ' i 've forgotten the words . '
so they began solemnly dancing round and round alice , every now and then treading on her toes when they passed too close , and waving their forepaws to mark the time , while the mock turtle sang this , very slowly and sadly :
-- ' " will you walk a little faster ? " said a whiting to a snail . " there 's a porpoise close behind us , and he 's treading on my tail .
see how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance ! they are waiting on the shingle--will you come and join the dance ?
will you , won 't you , will you , won 't you , will you join the dance ?
will you , won 't you , will you , won 't you , won 't you join the dance ?
" you can really have no notion how delightful it will be when they take us up and throw us , with the lobsters , out to sea ! "
but the snail replied " too far , too far ! " and gave a look askance-- said he thanked the whiting kindly , but he would not join the dance .
would not , could not , would not , could not , would not join the dance . would not , could not , would not , could not , could not join the dance .
'thank you , it 's a very interesting dance to watch , ' said alice , feeling very glad that it was over at last : ' and i do so like that curious song about the whiting ! '
'oh , as to the whiting , ' said the mock turtle , ' they--you 've seen them , of course ? '
'yes , ' said alice , ' i 've often seen them at dinn-- ' she checked herself hastily .
'i don 't know where dinn may be , ' said the mock turtle , ' but if you 've seen them so often , of course you know what they 're like . '
'i believe so , ' alice replied thoughtfully .
'they have their tails in their mouths--and they 're all over crumbs . '
'you 're wrong about the crumbs , ' said the mock turtle : ' crumbs would all wash off in the sea . but they have their tails in their mouths ; and the reason is-- ' here the mock turtle yawned and shut his eyes.-- ' tell her about the reason and all that , ' he said to the gryphon .
'the reason is , ' said the gryphon , ' that they would go with the lobsters to the dance .
so they got thrown out to sea .
so they had to fall a long way .
so they got their tails fast in their mouths .
so they couldn 't get them out again .
that 's all . '
'thank you , ' said alice , ' it 's very interesting . i never knew so much about a whiting before . '
'i can tell you more than that , if you like , ' said the gryphon . ' do you know why it 's called a whiting ? '
'i could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning , ' said alice a little timidly : ' but it 's no use going back to yesterday , because i was a different person then . '
'explain all that , ' said the mock turtle .
'no , no ! the adventures first , ' said the gryphon in an impatient tone : ' explanations take such a dreadful time . '
so alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first saw the white rabbit .
she was a little nervous about it just at first , the two creatures got so close to her , one on each side , and opened their eyes and mouths so very wide , but she gained courage as she went on .
her listeners were perfectly quiet till she got to the part about her repeating ' you are old , father william , ' to the caterpillar , and the words all coming different , and then the mock turtle drew a long breath , and said ' that 's very curious . '
'it 's all about as curious as it can be , ' said the gryphon .
'it all came different ! ' the mock turtle repeated thoughtfully .
'i should like to hear her try and repeat something now .
tell her to begin . '
he looked at the gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of authority over alice .
'stand up and repeat " ' tis the voice of the sluggard , " ' said the gryphon .
'how the creatures order one about , and make one repeat lessons ! ' thought alice ; ' i might as well be at school at once . '
however , she got up , and began to repeat it , but her head was so full of the lobster quadrille , that she hardly knew what she was saying , and the words came very queer indeed : --
" tis the voice of the lobster ; i heard him declare ,
" you have baked me too brown , i must sugar my hair . "
as a duck with its eyelids , so he with his nose trims his belt and his buttons , and turns out his toes . '
'that 's different from what i used to say when i was a child , ' said the gryphon .
'well , i never heard it before , ' said the mock turtle ; ' but it sounds uncommon nonsense . '
alice said nothing ; she had sat down with her face in her hands , wondering if anything would ever happen in a natural way again .
'i should like to have it explained , ' said the mock turtle .
'she can 't explain it , ' said the gryphon hastily .
'go on with the next verse . '
'but about his toes ? ' the mock turtle persisted .
'how could he turn them out with his nose , you know ? '
'it 's the first position in dancing . ' alice said ; but was dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing , and longed to change the subject .
'go on with the next verse , ' the gryphon repeated impatiently : ' it begins " i passed by his garden . " '
alice did not dare to disobey , though she felt sure it would all come wrong , and she went on in a trembling voice : --
'i passed by his garden , and marked , with one eye , how the owl and the panther were sharing a pie--'
'what is the use of repeating all that stuff , ' the mock turtle interrupted , ' if you don 't explain it as you go on ?
it 's by far the most confusing thing i ever heard ! '
'yes , i think you 'd better leave off , ' said the gryphon : and alice was only too glad to do so .
'shall we try another figure of the lobster quadrille ? ' the gryphon went on .
'or would you like the mock turtle to sing you a song ? '
'oh , a song , please , if the mock turtle would be so kind , ' alice replied , so eagerly that the gryphon said , in a rather offended tone , ' hm !
no accounting for tastes !
sing her " turtle soup , " will you , old fellow ? '
the mock turtle sighed deeply , and began , in a voice sometimes choked with sobs , to sing this : --
'beautiful soup , so rich and green , waiting in a hot tureen ! who for such dainties would not stoop ? soup of the evening , beautiful soup ! soup of the evening , beautiful soup ! beau--ootiful soo--oop ! beau--ootiful soo--oop ! soo--oop of the e--e--evening , beautiful , beautiful soup ! ' beautiful soup ! who cares for fish , game , or any other dish ? who would not give all else for two pennyworth only of beautiful soup ? pennyworth only of beautiful soup ? beau--ootiful soo--oop ! beau--ootiful soo--oop ! soo--oop of the e--e--evening , beautiful , beauti--ful soup ! ' ' chorus again ! ' cried the gryphon , and the mock turtle had just begun to repeat it , when a cry of ' the trial 's beginning ! ' was heard in the distance .
'come on ! ' cried the gryphon , and , taking alice by the hand , it hurried off , without waiting for the end of the song .
'what trial is it ? ' alice panted as she ran ; but the gryphon only answered ' come on ! ' and ran the faster , while more and more faintly came , carried on the breeze that followed them , the melancholy words : --
'soo--oop of the e--e--evening , beautiful , beautiful soup ! '
chapter xi who stole the tarts ?
the king and queen of hearts were seated on their throne when they arrived , with a great crowd assembled about them--all sorts of little birds and beasts , as well as the whole pack of cards : the knave was standing before them , in chains , with a soldier on each side to guard him ; and near the king was the white rabbit , with a trumpet in one hand , and a scroll of parchment in the other .
in the very middle of the court was a table , with a large dish of tarts upon it : they looked so good , that it made alice quite hungry to look at them-- ' i wish they 'd get the trial done , ' she thought , ' and hand round the refreshments ! ' but there seemed to be no chance of this , so she began looking at everything about her , to pass away the time .
alice had never been in a court of justice before , but she had read about them in books , and she was quite pleased to find that she knew the name of nearly everything there .
'that 's the judge , ' she said to herself , ' because of his great wig . '
the judge , by the way , was the king ; and as he wore his crown over the wig , ( look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he did it , ) he did not look at all comfortable , and it was certainly not becoming .
'and that 's the jury-box , ' thought alice , ' and those twelve creatures , ' ( she was obliged to say ' creatures , ' you see , because some of them were animals , and some were birds , ) ' i suppose they are the jurors . ' she said this last word two or three times over to herself , being rather proud of it : for she thought , and rightly too , that very few little girls of her age knew the meaning of it at all . however , ' jury-men ' would have done just as well .
the twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates .
'what are they doing ? ' alice whispered to the gryphon .
'they can 't have anything to put down yet , before the trial 's begun . '
'they 're putting down their names , ' the gryphon whispered in reply , ' for fear they should forget them before the end of the trial . '
'stupid things ! ' alice began in a loud , indignant voice , but she stopped hastily , for the white rabbit cried out , ' silence in the court ! ' and the king put on his spectacles and looked anxiously round , to make out who was talking .
alice could see , as well as if she were looking over their shoulders , that all the jurors were writing down ' stupid things ! ' on their slates , and she could even make out that one of them didn 't know how to spell ' stupid , ' and that he had to ask his neighbour to tell him .
'a nice muddle their slates 'll be in before the trial 's over ! ' thought alice .
one of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked . this of course , alice could not stand , and she went round the court and got behind him , and very soon found an opportunity of taking it away .
she did it so quickly that the poor little juror ( it was bill , the lizard ) could not make out at all what had become of it ; so , after hunting all about for it , he was obliged to write with one finger for the rest of the day ; and this was of very little use , as it left no mark on the slate .
'herald , read the accusation ! ' said the king .
on this the white rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet , and then unrolled the parchment scroll , and read as follows : --
'the queen of hearts , she made some tarts , all on a summer day : the knave of hearts , he stole those tarts , and took them quite away ! '
'consider your verdict , ' the king said to the jury .
'not yet , not yet ! ' the rabbit hastily interrupted . ' there 's a great deal to come before that ! '
'call the first witness , ' said the king ; and the white rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet , and called out , ' first witness ! '
the first witness was the hatter .
he came in with a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other .
'i beg pardon , your majesty , ' he began , ' for bringing these in : but i hadn 't quite finished my tea when i was sent for . '
'you ought to have finished , ' said the king . ' when did you begin ? '
the hatter looked at the march hare , who had followed him into the court , arm-in-arm with the dormouse .
'fourteenth of march , i think it was , ' he said .
'fifteenth , ' said the march hare .
'sixteenth , ' added the dormouse .
'write that down , ' the king said to the jury , and the jury eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates , and then added them up , and reduced the answer to shillings and pence .
'take off your hat , ' the king said to the hatter .
'it isn 't mine , ' said the hatter .
'stolen ! ' the king exclaimed , turning to the jury , who instantly made a memorandum of the fact .
'i keep them to sell , ' the hatter added as an explanation ; ' i 've none of my own .
i 'm a hatter . '
here the queen put on her spectacles , and began staring at the hatter , who turned pale and fidgeted .
'give your evidence , ' said the king ; ' and don 't be nervous , or i 'll have you executed on the spot . '
this did not seem to encourage the witness at all : he kept shifting from one foot to the other , looking uneasily at the queen , and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the bread-and-butter .
just at this moment alice felt a very curious sensation , which puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was : she was beginning to grow larger again , and she thought at first she would get up and leave the court ; but on second thoughts she decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for her .
'i wish you wouldn 't squeeze so . ' said the dormouse , who was sitting next to her . ' i can hardly breathe . '
'i can 't help it , ' said alice very meekly : ' i 'm growing . '
'you 've no right to grow here , ' said the dormouse .
'don 't talk nonsense , ' said alice more boldly : ' you know you 're growing too . '
'yes , but i grow at a reasonable pace , ' said the dormouse : ' not in that ridiculous fashion . '
and he got up very sulkily and crossed over to the other side of the court .
all this time the queen had never left off staring at the hatter , and , just as the dormouse crossed the court , she said to one of the officers of the court , ' bring me the list of the singers in the last concert ! ' on which the wretched hatter trembled so , that he shook both his shoes off .
'give your evidence , ' the king repeated angrily , ' or i 'll have you executed , whether you 're nervous or not . '
'i 'm a poor man , your majesty , ' the hatter began , in a trembling voice , ' --and i hadn 't begun my tea--not above a week or so--and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin--and the twinkling of the tea--'
'the twinkling of the what ? ' said the king .
'it began with the tea , ' the hatter replied .
'of course twinkling begins with a t ! ' said the king sharply .
'do you take me for a dunce ?
go on ! '
'i 'm a poor man , ' the hatter went on , ' and most things twinkled after that--only the march hare said--'
'i didn 't ! ' the march hare interrupted in a great hurry .
'you did ! ' said the hatter .
'i deny it ! ' said the march hare .
'he denies it , ' said the king : ' leave out that part . '
'well , at any rate , the dormouse said-- ' the hatter went on , looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too : but the dormouse denied nothing , being fast asleep .
'after that , ' continued the hatter , ' i cut some more bread- and-butter--'
'but what did the dormouse say ? ' one of the jury asked .
'that i can 't remember , ' said the hatter .
'you must remember , ' remarked the king , ' or i 'll have you executed . '
the miserable hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter , and went down on one knee .
'i 'm a poor man , your majesty , ' he began .
'you 're a very poor speaker , ' said the king .
here one of the guinea-pigs cheered , and was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court .
( as that is rather a hard word , i will just explain to you how it was done .
they had a large canvas bag , which tied up at the mouth with strings : into this they slipped the guinea-pig , head first , and then sat upon it . )
'i 'm glad i 've seen that done , ' thought alice .
'i 've so often read in the newspapers , at the end of trials , " there was some attempts at applause , which was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court , " and i never understood what it meant till now . '
'if that 's all you know about it , you may stand down , ' continued the king .
'i can 't go no lower , ' said the hatter : ' i 'm on the floor , as it is . '
'then you may sit down , ' the king replied .
here the other guinea-pig cheered , and was suppressed .
'come , that finished the guinea-pigs ! ' thought alice .
'now we shall get on better . '
'i 'd rather finish my tea , ' said the hatter , with an anxious look at the queen , who was reading the list of singers .
'you may go , ' said the king , and the hatter hurriedly left the court , without even waiting to put his shoes on .
'--and just take his head off outside , ' the queen added to one of the officers : but the hatter was out of sight before the officer could get to the door .
'call the next witness ! ' said the king .
the next witness was the duchess 's cook . she carried the pepper-box in her hand , and alice guessed who it was , even before she got into the court , by the way the people near the door began sneezing all at once .
'give your evidence , ' said the king .
'shan 't , ' said the cook .
the king looked anxiously at the white rabbit , who said in a low voice , ' your majesty must cross-examine this witness . '
'well , if i must , i must , ' the king said , with a melancholy air , and , after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till his eyes were nearly out of sight , he said in a deep voice ,
'what are tarts made of ? '
'pepper , mostly , ' said the cook .
'treacle , ' said a sleepy voice behind her .
'collar that dormouse , ' the queen shrieked out .
'behead that dormouse !
turn that dormouse out of court ! suppress him !
pinch him ! off with his whiskers ! '
for some minutes the whole court was in confusion , getting the dormouse turned out , and , by the time they had settled down again , the cook had disappeared .
'never mind ! ' said the king , with an air of great relief . ' call the next witness . '
and he added in an undertone to the queen , ' really , my dear , you must cross-examine the next witness . it quite makes my forehead ache ! '
alice watched the white rabbit as he fumbled over the list , feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like , ' --for they haven 't got much evidence yet , ' she said to herself .
imagine her surprise , when the white rabbit read out , at the top of his shrill little voice , the name ' alice ! '
chapter xii alice 's evidence
'here ! ' cried alice , quite forgetting in the flurry of the moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes , and she jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with the edge of her skirt , upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads of the crowd below , and there they lay sprawling about , reminding her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset the week before .
'oh , i beg your pardon ! ' she exclaimed in a tone of great dismay , and began picking them up again as quickly as she could , for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head , and she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once and put back into the jury-box , or they would die .
'the trial cannot proceed , ' said the king in a very grave voice , ' until all the jurymen are back in their proper places-- all , ' he repeated with great emphasis , looking hard at alice as he said do .
alice looked at the jury-box , and saw that , in her haste , she had put the lizard in head downwards , and the poor little thing was waving its tail about in a melancholy way , being quite unable to move .
she soon got it out again , and put it right ; ' not that it signifies much , ' she said to herself ; ' i should think it would be quite as much use in the trial one way up as the other . '
as soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of being upset , and their slates and pencils had been found and handed back to them , they set to work very diligently to write out a history of the accident , all except the lizard , who seemed too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth open , gazing up into the roof of the court .
'what do you know about this business ? ' the king said to alice .
'nothing , ' said alice .
'nothing whatever ? ' persisted the king .
'nothing whatever , ' said alice .
'that 's very important , ' the king said , turning to the jury .
they were just beginning to write this down on their slates , when the white rabbit interrupted : ' unimportant , your majesty means , of course , ' he said in a very respectful tone , but frowning and making faces at him as he spoke .
'unimportant , of course , i meant , ' the king hastily said , and went on to himself in an undertone , ' important--unimportant-- unimportant--important-- ' as if he were trying which word sounded best .
some of the jury wrote it down ' important , ' and some ' unimportant . '
alice could see this , as she was near enough to look over their slates ; ' but it doesn 't matter a bit , ' she thought to herself .
at this moment the king , who had been for some time busily writing in his note-book , cackled out ' silence ! ' and read out from his book , ' rule forty-two . all persons more than a mile hight to leave the court . '
everybody looked at alice .
'i 'm not a mile high , ' said alice .
'you are , ' said the king .
'nearly two miles high , ' added the queen .
'well , i shan 't go , at any rate , ' said alice : ' besides , that 's not a regular rule : you invented it just now . '
'it 's the oldest rule in the book , ' said the king .
'then it ought to be number one , ' said alice .
the king turned pale , and shut his note-book hastily .
'consider your verdict , ' he said to the jury , in a low , trembling voice .
'there 's more evidence to come yet , please your majesty , ' said the white rabbit , jumping up in a great hurry ; ' this paper has just been picked up . '
'what 's in it ? ' said the queen .
'i haven 't opened it yet , ' said the white rabbit , ' but it seems to be a letter , written by the prisoner to--to somebody . '
'it must have been that , ' said the king , ' unless it was written to nobody , which isn 't usual , you know . '
'who is it directed to ? ' said one of the jurymen .
'it isn 't directed at all , ' said the white rabbit ; ' in fact , there 's nothing written on the outside . '
he unfolded the paper as he spoke , and added ' it isn 't a letter , after all : it 's a set of verses . '
'are they in the prisoner 's handwriting ? ' asked another of they jurymen .
'no , they 're not , ' said the white rabbit , ' and that 's the queerest thing about it . '
( the jury all looked puzzled . )
'he must have imitated somebody else 's hand , ' said the king .
( the jury all brightened up again . )
'please your majesty , ' said the knave , ' i didn 't write it , and they can 't prove i did : there 's no name signed at the end . '
'if you didn 't sign it , ' said the king , ' that only makes the matter worse . you must have meant some mischief , or else you 'd have signed your name like an honest man . '
there was a general clapping of hands at this : it was the first really clever thing the king had said that day .
'that proves his guilt , ' said the queen .
'it proves nothing of the sort ! ' said alice .
'why , you don 't even know what they 're about ! '
'read them , ' said the king .
the white rabbit put on his spectacles .
'where shall i begin , please your majesty ? ' he asked .
'begin at the beginning , ' the king said gravely , ' and go on till you come to the end : then stop . '
these were the verses the white rabbit read : --
'they told me you had been to her , and mentioned me to him : she gave me a good character , but said i could not swim .
he sent them word i had not gone ( we know it to be true ) : if she should push the matter on , what would become of you ?
i gave her one , they gave him two , you gave us three or more ; they all returned from him to you , though they were mine before .
if i or she should chance to be involved in this affair , he trusts to you to set them free , exactly as we were .
my notion was that you had been ( before she had this fit ) an obstacle that came between him , and ourselves , and it .
don 't let him know she liked them best , for this must ever be a secret , kept from all the rest , between yourself and me . '
'that 's the most important piece of evidence we 've heard yet , ' said the king , rubbing his hands ; ' so now let the jury--'
'if any one of them can explain it , ' said alice , ( she had grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn 't a bit afraid of interrupting him , ) ' i 'll give him sixpence . _ i _ don 't believe there 's an atom of meaning in it . '
the jury all wrote down on their slates , ' she doesn 't believe there 's an atom of meaning in it , ' but none of them attempted to explain the paper .
'if there 's no meaning in it , ' said the king , ' that saves a world of trouble , you know , as we needn 't try to find any . and yet i don 't know , ' he went on , spreading out the verses on his knee , and looking at them with one eye ; ' i seem to see some meaning in them , after all . " -said i could not swim-- " you can 't swim , can you ? ' he added , turning to the knave .
the knave shook his head sadly .
'do i look like it ? ' he said .
( which he certainly did not , being made entirely of cardboard . )
'all right , so far , ' said the king , and he went on muttering over the verses to himself : ' " we know it to be true-- " that 's the jury , of course-- " i gave her one , they gave him two-- " why , that must be what he did with the tarts , you know--'
'but , it goes on " they all returned from him to you , " ' said alice .
'why , there they are ! ' said the king triumphantly , pointing to the tarts on the table .
'nothing can be clearer than that .
then again-- " before she had this fit-- " you never had fits , my dear , i think ? ' he said to the queen .
'never ! ' said the queen furiously , throwing an inkstand at the lizard as she spoke .
( the unfortunate little bill had left off writing on his slate with one finger , as he found it made no mark ; but he now hastily began again , using the ink , that was trickling down his face , as long as it lasted . )
'then the words don 't fit you , ' said the king , looking round the court with a smile .
there was a dead silence .
'it 's a pun ! ' the king added in an offended tone , and everybody laughed , ' let the jury consider their verdict , ' the king said , for about the twentieth time that day .
'no , no ! ' said the queen . ' sentence first--verdict afterwards . '
'stuff and nonsense ! ' said alice loudly .
'the idea of having the sentence first ! '
'hold your tongue ! ' said the queen , turning purple .
'i won 't ! ' said alice .
'off with her head ! ' the queen shouted at the top of her voice .
nobody moved .
'who cares for you ? ' said alice , ( she had grown to her full size by this time . )
'you 're nothing but a pack of cards ! '
at this the whole pack rose up into the air , and came flying down upon her : she gave a little scream , half of fright and half of anger , and tried to beat them off , and found herself lying on the bank , with her head in the lap of her sister , who was gently brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon her face .
'wake up , alice dear ! ' said her sister ; ' why , what a long sleep you 've had ! '
'oh , i 've had such a curious dream ! ' said alice , and she told her sister , as well as she could remember them , all these strange adventures of hers that you have just been reading about ; and when she had finished , her sister kissed her , and said ,
'it was a curious dream , dear , certainly : but now run in to your tea ; it 's getting late . '
so alice got up and ran off , thinking while she ran , as well she might , what a wonderful dream it had been .
but her sister sat still just as she left her , leaning her head on her hand , watching the setting sun , and thinking of little alice and all her wonderful adventures , till she too began dreaming after a fashion , and this was her dream : --
first , she dreamed of little alice herself , and once again the tiny hands were clasped upon her knee , and the bright eager eyes were looking up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her voice , and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back the wandering hair that would always get into her eyes--and still as she listened , or seemed to listen , the whole place around her became alive the strange creatures of her little sister 's dream .
the long grass rustled at her feet as the white rabbit hurried by--the frightened mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool--she could hear the rattle of the teacups as the march hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal , and the shrill voice of the queen ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution--once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the duchess 's knee , while plates and dishes crashed around it--once more the shriek of the gryphon , the squeaking of the lizard 's slate-pencil , and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs , filled the air , mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable mock turtle .
so she sat on , with closed eyes , and half believed herself in wonderland , though she knew she had but to open them again , and all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only rustling in the wind , and the pool rippling to the waving of the reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-bells , and the queen 's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd boy--and the sneeze of the baby , the shriek of the gryphon , and all the other queer noises , would change ( she knew ) to the confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the mock turtle 's heavy sobs .
lastly , she pictured to herself how this same little sister of hers would , in the after-time , be herself a grown woman ; and how she would keep , through all her riper years , the simple and loving heart of her childhood : and how she would gather about her other little children , and make their eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale , perhaps even with the dream of wonderland of long ago : and how she would feel with all their simple sorrows , and find a pleasure in all their simple joys , remembering her own child-life , and the happy summer days .
moll flanders
by daniel defoe
my true name is so well known in the records or registers at newgate , and in the old bailey , and there are some things of such consequence still depending there , relating to my particular conduct , that it is not be expected i should set my name or the account of my family to this work ; perhaps , after my death , it may be better known ; at present it would not be proper , no not though a general pardon should be issued , even without exceptions and reserve of persons or crimes .
it is enough to tell you , that as some of my worst comrades , who are out of the way of doing me harm ( having gone out of the world by the steps and the string , as i often expected to go ) , knew me by the name of moll flanders , so you may give me leave to speak of myself under that name till i dare own who i have been , as well as who i am .
i have been told that in one of neighbour nations , whether it be in france or where else i know not , they have an order from the king , that when any criminal is condemned , either to die , or to the galleys , or to be transported , if they leave any children , as such are generally unprovided for , by the poverty or forfeiture of their parents , so they are immediately taken into the care of the government , and put into a hospital called the house of orphans , where they are bred up , clothed , fed , taught , and when fit to go out , are placed out to trades or to services , so as to be well able to provide for themselves by an honest , industrious behaviour .
had this been the custom in our country , i had not been left a poor desolate girl without friends , without clothes , without help or helper in the world , as was my fate ; and by which i was not only exposed to very great distresses , even before i was capable either of understanding my case or how to amend it , but brought into a course of life which was not only scandalous in itself , but which in its ordinary course tended to the swift destruction both of soul and body .
but the case was otherwise here .
my mother was convicted of felony for a certain petty theft scarce worth naming , viz. having an opportunity of borrowing three pieces of fine holland of a certain draper in cheapside . the circumstances are too long to repeat , and i have heard them related so many ways , that i can scarce be certain which is the right account .
however it was , this they all agree in , that my mother pleaded her belly , and being found quick with child , she was respited for about seven months ; in which time having brought me into the world , and being about again , she was called down , as they term it , to her former judgment , but obtained the favour of being transported to the plantations , and left me about half a year old ; and in bad hands , you may be sure .
this is too near the first hours of my life for me to relate anything of myself but by hearsay ; it is enough to mention , that as i was born in such an unhappy place , i had no parish to have recourse to for my nourishment in my infancy ; nor can i give the least account how i was kept alive , other than that , as i have been told , some relation of my mother 's took me away for a while as a nurse , but at whose expense , or by whose direction , i know nothing at all of it .
the first account that i can recollect , or could ever learn of myself , was that i had wandered among a crew of those people they call gypsies , or egyptians ; but i believe it was but a very little while that i had been among them , for i had not had my skin discoloured or blackened , as they do very young to all the children they carry about with them ; nor can i tell how i came among them , or how i got from them .
it was at colchester , in essex , that those people left me ; and i have a notion in my head that i left them there ( that is , that i hid myself and would not go any farther with them ) , but i am not able to be particular in that account ; only this i remember , that being taken up by some of the parish officers of colchester , i gave an account that i came into the town with the gypsies , but that i would not go any farther with them , and that so they had left me , but whither they were gone that i knew not , nor could they expect it of me ; for though they send round the country to inquire after them , it seems they could not be found .
i was now in a way to be provided for ; for though i was not a parish charge upon this or that part of the town by law , yet as my case came to be known , and that i was too young to do any work , being not above three years old , compassion moved the magistrates of the town to order some care to be taken of me , and i became one of their own as much as if i had been born in the place .
in the provision they made for me , it was my good hap to be put to nurse , as they call it , to a woman who was indeed poor but had been in better circumstances , and who got a little livelihood by taking such as i was supposed to be , and keeping them with all necessaries , till they were at a certain age , in which it might be supposed they might go to service or get their own bread .
this woman had also had a little school , which she kept to teach children to read and to work ; and having , as i have said , lived before that in good fashion , she bred up the children she took with a great deal of art , as well as with a great deal of care .
but that which was worth all the rest , she bred them up very religiously , being herself a very sober , pious woman , very house-wifely and clean , and very mannerly , and with good behaviour .
so that in a word , expecting a plain diet , coarse lodging , and mean clothes , we were brought up as mannerly and as genteelly as if we had been at the dancing-school .
i was continued here till i was eight years old , when i was terrified with news that the magistrates ( as i think they called them ) had ordered that i should go to service . i was able to do but very little service wherever i was to go , except it was to run of errands and be a drudge to some cookmaid , and this they told me of often , which put me into a great fright ; for i had a thorough aversion to going to service , as they called it ( that is , to be a servant ) , though i was so young ; and i told my nurse , as we called her , that i believed i could get my living without going to service , if she pleased to let me ; for she had taught me to work with my needle , and spin worsted , which is the chief trade of that city , and i told her that if she would keep me , i would work for her , and i would work very hard .
i talked to her almost every day of working hard ; and , in short , i did nothing but work and cry all day , which grieved the good , kind woman so much , that at last she began to be concerned for me , for she loved me very well .
one day after this , as she came into the room where all we poor children were at work , she sat down just over against me , not in her usual place as mistress , but as if she set herself on purpose to observe me and see me work . i was doing something she had set me to ; as i remember , it was marking some shirts which she had taken to make , and after a while she began to talk to me .
'thou foolish child , ' says she , ' thou art always crying ( for i was crying then ) ; ' prithee , what dost cry for ? '
'because they will take me away , ' says i , ' and put me to service , and i can 't work housework . '
'well , child , ' says she , ' but though you can 't work housework , as you call it , you will learn it in time , and they won 't put you to hard things at first . '
'yes , they will , ' says i , ' and if i can 't do it they will beat me , and the maids will beat me to make me do great work , and i am but a little girl and i can 't do it ' ; and then i cried again , till i could not speak any more to her .
this moved my good motherly nurse , so that she from that time resolved i should not go to service yet ; so she bid me not cry , and she would speak to mr. mayor , and i should not go to service till i was bigger .
well , this did not satisfy me , for to think of going to service was such a frightful thing to me , that if she had assured me i should not have gone till i was twenty years old , it would have been the same to me ; i should have cried , i believe , all the time , with the very apprehension of its being to be so at last .
when she saw that i was not pacified yet , she began to be angry with me .
'and what would you have ? ' says she ; ' don 't i tell you that you shall not go to service till your are bigger ? '
'ay , ' said i , ' but then i must go at last . '
'why , what ? ' said she ; ' is the girl mad ?
what would you be--a gentlewoman ? '
'yes , ' says i , and cried heartily till i roared out again .
this set the old gentlewoman a-laughing at me , as you may be sure it would .
'well , madam , forsooth , ' says she , gibing at me , ' you would be a gentlewoman ; and pray how will you come to be a gentlewoman ?
what ! will you do it by your fingers ' end ? '
'yes , ' says i again , very innocently . ' why , what can you earn ? ' says she ; ' what can you get at your work ? '
'threepence , ' said i , ' when i spin , and fourpence when i work plain work . '
'alas ! poor gentlewoman , ' said she again , laughing , ' what will that do for thee ? '
'it will keep me , ' says i , ' if you will let me live with you . '
and this i said in such a poor petitioning tone , that it made the poor woman 's heart yearn to me , as she told me afterwards .
'but , ' says she , ' that will not keep you and buy you clothes too ; and who must buy the little gentlewoman clothes ? ' says she , and smiled all the while at me .
'i will work harder , then , ' says i , ' and you shall have it all . '
'poor child ! it won 't keep you , ' says she ; ' it will hardly keep you in victuals . '
'then i will have no victuals , ' says i , again very innocently ; ' let me but live with you . '
'why , can you live without victuals ? ' says she .
'yes , ' again says i , very much like a child , you may be sure , and still i cried heartily .
i had no policy in all this ; you may easily see it was all nature ; but it was joined with so much innocence and so much passion that , in short , it set the good motherly creature a-weeping too , and she cried at last as fast as i did , and then took me and led me out of the teaching-room .
'come , ' says she , ' you shan 't go to service ; you shall live with me ' ; and this pacified me for the present . some time after this , she going to wait on the mayor , and talking of such things as belonged to her business , at last my story came up , and my good nurse told mr. mayor the whole tale .
he was so pleased with it , that he would call his lady and his two daughters to hear it , and it made mirth enough among them , you may be sure . however , not a week had passed over , but on a sudden comes mrs. mayoress and her two daughters to the house to see my old nurse , and to see her school and the children .
when they had looked about them a little , ' well , mrs. ---- , ' says the mayoress to my nurse , ' and pray which is the little lass that intends to be a gentlewoman ? '
i heard her , and i was terribly frighted at first , though i did not know why neither ; but mrs. mayoress comes up to me .
'well , miss , ' says she , ' and what are you at work upon ? '
the word miss was a language that had hardly been heard of in our school , and i wondered what sad name it was she called me .
however , i stood up , made a curtsy , and she took my work out of my hand , looked on it , and said it was very well ; then she took up one of the hands .
'nay , ' says she , ' the child may come to be a gentlewoman for aught anybody knows ; she has a gentlewoman 's hand , ' says she . this pleased me mightily , you may be sure ; but mrs. mayoress did not stop there , but giving me my work again , she put her hand in her pocket , gave me a shilling , and bid me mind my work , and learn to work well , and i might be a gentlewoman for aught she knew .
now all this while my good old nurse , mrs. mayoress , and all the rest of them did not understand me at all , for they meant one sort of thing by the word gentlewoman , and i meant quite another ; for alas ! all i understood by being a gentlewoman was to be able to work for myself , and get enough to keep me without that terrible bugbear going to service , whereas they meant to live great , rich and high , and i know not what .
well , after mrs. mayoress was gone , her two daughters came in , and they called for the gentlewoman too , and they talked a long while to me , and i answered them in my innocent way ; but always , if they asked me whether i resolved to be a gentlewoman , i answered yes . at last one of them asked me what a gentlewoman was ?
that puzzled me much ; but , however , i explained myself negatively , that it was one that did not go to service , to do housework . they were pleased to be familiar with me , and like my little prattle to them , which , it seems , was agreeable enough to them , and they gave me money too .
as for my money , i gave it all to my mistress-nurse , as i called her , and told her she should have all i got for myself when i was a gentlewoman , as well as now . by this and some other of my talk , my old tutoress began to understand me about what i meant by being a gentlewoman , and that i understood by it no more than to be able to get my bread by my own work ; and at last she asked me whether it was not so .
i told her , yes , and insisted on it , that to do so was to be a gentlewoman ; ' for , ' says i , ' there is such a one , ' naming a woman that mended lace and washed the ladies ' laced-heads ; ' she , ' says i , ' is a gentlewoman , and they call her madam . '
'poor child , ' says my good old nurse , ' you may soon be such a gentlewoman as that , for she is a person of ill fame , and has had two or three bastards . '
i did not understand anything of that ; but i answered , ' i am sure they call her madam , and she does not go to service nor do housework ' ; and therefore i insisted that she was a gentlewoman , and i would be such a gentlewoman as that .
the ladies were told all this again , to be sure , and they made themselves merry with it , and every now and then the young ladies , mr. mayor 's daughters , would come and see me , and ask where the little gentlewoman was , which made me not a little proud of myself . this held a great while , and i was often visited by these young ladies , and sometimes they brought others with them ; so that i was known by it almost all over the town .
i was now about ten years old , and began to look a little womanish , for i was mighty grave and humble , very mannerly , and as i had often heard the ladies say i was pretty , and would be a very handsome woman , so you may be sure that hearing them say so made me not a little proud . however , that pride had no ill effect upon me yet ; only , as they often gave me money , and i gave it to my old nurse , she , honest woman , was so just to me as to lay it all out again for me , and gave me head-dresses , and linen , and gloves , and ribbons , and i went very neat , and always clean ; for that i would do , and if i had rags on , i would always be clean , or else i would dabble them in water myself ; but , i say , my good nurse , when i had money given me , very honestly laid it out for me , and would always tell the ladies this or that was bought with their money ; and this made them oftentimes give me more , till at last i was indeed called upon by the magistrates , as i understood it , to go out to service ; but then i was come to be so good a workwoman myself , and the ladies were so kind to me , that it was plain i could maintain myself--that is to say , i could earn as much for my nurse as she was able by it to keep me--so she told them that if they would give her leave , she would keep the gentlewoman , as she called me , to be her assistant and teach the children , which i was very well able to do ; for i was very nimble at my work , and had a good hand with my needle , though i was yet very young .
but the kindness of the ladies of the town did not end here , for when they came to understand that i was no more maintained by the public allowance as before , they gave me money oftener than formerly ; and as i grew up they brought me work to do for them , such as linen to make , and laces to mend , and heads to dress up , and not only paid me for doing them , but even taught me how to do them ; so that now i was a gentlewoman indeed , as i understood that word , i not only found myself clothes and paid my nurse for my keeping , but got money in my pocket too beforehand .
the ladies also gave me clothes frequently of their own or their children 's ; some stockings , some petticoats , some gowns , some one thing , some another , and these my old woman managed for me like a mere mother , and kept them for me , obliged me to mend them , and turn them and twist them to the best advantage , for she was a rare housewife .
at last one of the ladies took so much fancy to me that she would have me home to her house , for a month , she said , to be among her daughters .
now , though this was exceeding kind in her , yet , as my old good woman said to her , unless she resolved to keep me for good and all , she would do the little gentlewoman more harm than good . ' well , ' says the lady , ' that 's true ; and therefore i 'll only take her home for a week , then , that i may see how my daughters and she agree together , and how i like her temper , and then i 'll tell you more ; and in the meantime , if anybody comes to see her as they used to do , you may only tell them you have sent her out to my house . '
this was prudently managed enough , and i went to the lady 's house ; but i was so pleased there with the young ladies , and they so pleased with me , that i had enough to do to come away , and they were as unwilling to part with me .
however , i did come away , and lived almost a year more with my honest old woman , and began now to be very helpful to her ; for i was almost fourteen years old , was tall of my age , and looked a little womanish ; but i had such a taste of genteel living at the lady 's house that i was not so easy in my old quarters as i used to be , and i thought it was fine to be a gentlewoman indeed , for i had quite other notions of a gentlewoman now than i had before ; and as i thought , i say , that it was fine to be a gentlewoman , so i loved to be among gentlewomen , and therefore i longed to be there again .
about the time that i was fourteen years and a quarter old , my good nurse , mother i rather to call her , fell sick and died .
i was then in a sad condition indeed , for as there is no great bustle in putting an end to a poor body 's family when once they are carried to the grave , so the poor good woman being buried , the parish children she kept were immediately removed by the church-wardens ; the school was at an end , and the children of it had no more to do but just stay at home till they were sent somewhere else ; and as for what she left , her daughter , a married woman with six or seven children , came and swept it all away at once , and removing the goods , they had no more to say to me than to jest with me , and tell me that the little gentlewoman might set up for herself if she pleased .
i was frighted out of my wits almost , and knew not what to do , for i was , as it were , turned out of doors to the wide world , and that which was still worse , the old honest woman had two-and-twenty shillings of mine in her hand , which was all the estate the little gentlewoman had in the world ; and when i asked the daughter for it , she huffed me and laughed at me , and told me she had nothing to do with it .
it was true the good , poor woman had told her daughter of it , and that it lay in such a place , that it was the child 's money , and had called once or twice for me to give it me , but i was , unhappily , out of the way somewhere or other , and when i came back she was past being in a condition to speak of it . however , the daughter was so honest afterwards as to give it me , though at first she used me cruelly about it .
now was i a poor gentlewoman indeed , and i was just that very night to be turned into the wide world ; for the daughter removed all the goods , and i had not so much as a lodging to go to , or a bit of bread to eat . but it seems some of the neighbours , who had known my circumstances , took so much compassion of me as to acquaint the lady in whose family i had been a week , as i mentioned above ; and immediately she sent her maid to fetch me away , and two of her daughters came with the maid though unsent .
so i went with them , bag and baggage , and with a glad heart , you may be sure . the fright of my condition had made such an impression upon me , that i did not want now to be a gentlewoman , but was very willing to be a servant , and that any kind of servant they thought fit to have me be .
but my new generous mistress , for she exceeded the good woman i was with before , in everything , as well as in the matter of estate ; i say , in everything except honesty ; and for that , though this was a lady most exactly just , yet i must not forget to say on all occasions , that the first , though poor , was as uprightly honest as it was possible for any one to be .
i was no sooner carried away , as i have said , by this good gentlewoman , but the first lady , that is to say , the mayoress that was , sent her two daughters to take care of me ; and another family which had taken notice of me when i was the little gentlewoman , and had given me work to do , sent for me after her , so that i was mightily made of , as we say ; nay , and they were not a little angry , especially madam the mayoress , that her friend had taken me away from her , as she called it ; for , as she said , i was hers by right , she having been the first that took any notice of me . but they that had me would not part with me ; and as for me , though i should have been very well treated with any of the others , yet i could not be better than where i was .
here i continued till i was between seventeen and eighteen years old , and here i had all the advantages for my education that could be imagined ; the lady had masters home to the house to teach her daughters to dance , and to speak french , and to write , and other to teach them music ; and i was always with them , i learned as fast as they ; and though the masters were not appointed to teach me , yet i learned by imitation and inquiry all that they learned by instruction and direction ; so that , in short , i learned to dance and speak french as well as any of them , and to sing much better , for i had a better voice than any of them .
i could not so readily come at playing on the harpsichord or spinet , because i had no instrument of my own to practice on , and could only come at theirs in the intervals when they left it , which was uncertain ; but yet i learned tolerably well too , and the young ladies at length got two instruments , that is to say , a harpsichord and a spinet too , and then they taught me themselves . but as to dancing , they could hardly help my learning country-dances , because they always wanted me to make up even number ; and , on the other hand , they were as heartily willing to learn me everything that they had been taught themselves , as i could be to take the learning .
by this means i had , as i have said above , all the advantages of education that i could have had if i had been as much a gentlewoman as they were with whom i lived ; and in some things i had the advantage of my ladies , though they were my superiors ; but they were all the gifts of nature , and which all their fortunes could not furnish .
first , i was apparently handsomer than any of them ; secondly , i was better shaped ; and , thirdly , i sang better , by which i mean i had a better voice ; in all which you will , i hope , allow me to say , i do not speak my own conceit of myself , but the opinion of all that knew the family .
i had with all these the common vanity of my sex , viz. that being really taken for very handsome , or , if you please , for a great beauty , i very well knew it , and had as good an opinion of myself as anybody else could have of me ; and particularly i loved to hear anybody speak of it , which could not but happen to me sometimes , and was a great satisfaction to me .
thus far i have had a smooth story to tell of myself , and in all this part of my life i not only had the reputation of living in a very good family , and a family noted and respected everywhere for virtue and sobriety , and for every valuable thing ; but i had the character too of a very sober , modest , and virtuous young woman , and such i had always been ; neither had i yet any occasion to think of anything else , or to know what a temptation to wickedness meant .
but that which i was too vain of was my ruin , or rather my vanity was the cause of it .
the lady in the house where i was had two sons , young gentlemen of very promising parts and of extraordinary behaviour , and it was my misfortune to be very well with them both , but they managed themselves with me in a quite different manner .
the eldest , a gay gentleman that knew the town as well as the country , and though he had levity enough to do an ill-natured thing , yet had too much judgment of things to pay too dear for his pleasures ; he began with the unhappy snare to all women , viz. taking notice upon all occasions how pretty i was , as he called it , how agreeable , how well-carriaged , and the like ; and this he contrived so subtly , as if he had known as well how to catch a woman in his net as a partridge when he went a-setting ; for he would contrive to be talking this to his sisters when , though i was not by , yet when he knew i was not far off but that i should be sure to hear him .
his sisters would return softly to him , ' hush , brother , she will hear you ; she is but in the next room . '
then he would put it off and talk softlier , as if he had not know it , and begin to acknowledge he was wrong ; and then , as if he had forgot himself , he would speak aloud again , and i , that was so well pleased to hear it , was sure to listen for it upon all occasions .
after he had thus baited his hook , and found easily enough the method how to lay it in my way , he played an opener game ; and one day , going by his sister 's chamber when i was there , doing something about dressing her , he comes in with an air of gaiety .
'oh , mrs. betty , ' said he to me , ' how do you do , mrs. betty ?
don 't your cheeks burn , mrs. betty ? '
i made a curtsy and blushed , but said nothing .
'what makes you talk so , brother ? ' says the lady .
'why , ' says he , ' we have been talking of her below-stairs this half-hour . '
'well , ' says his sister , ' you can say no harm of her , that i am sure , so ' tis no matter what you have been talking about . '
'nay , ' says he , " tis so far from talking harm of her , that we have been talking a great deal of good , and a great many fine things have been said of mrs. betty , i assure you ; and particularly , that she is the handsomest young woman in colchester ; and , in short , they begin to toast her health in the town . '
'i wonder at you , brother , ' says the sister . ' betty wants but one thing , but she had as good want everything , for the market is against our sex just now ; and if a young woman have beauty , birth , breeding , wit , sense , manners , modesty , and all these to an extreme , yet if she have not money , she 's nobody , she had as good want them all for nothing but money now recommends a woman ; the men play the game all into their own hands . '
her younger brother , who was by , cried , ' hold , sister , you run too fast ; i am an exception to your rule .
i assure you , if i find a woman so accomplished as you talk of , i say , i assure you , i would not trouble myself about the money . '
'oh , ' says the sister , ' but you will take care not to fancy one , then , without the money . '
'you don 't know that neither , ' says the brother .
'but why , sister , ' says the elder brother , ' why do you exclaim so at the men for aiming so much at the fortune ?
you are none of them that want a fortune , whatever else you want . '
'i understand you , brother , ' replies the lady very smartly ; ' you suppose i have the money , and want the beauty ; but as times go now , the first will do without the last , so i have the better of my neighbours . '
'well , ' says the younger brother , ' but your neighbours , as you call them , may be even with you , for beauty will steal a husband sometimes in spite of money , and when the maid chances to be handsomer than the mistress , she oftentimes makes as good a market , and rides in a coach before her . '
i thought it was time for me to withdraw and leave them , and i did so , but not so far but that i heard all their discourse , in which i heard abundance of the fine things said of myself , which served to prompt my vanity , but , as i soon found , was not the way to increase my interest in the family , for the sister and the younger brother fell grievously out about it ; and as he said some very disobliging things to her upon my account , so i could easily see that she resented them by her future conduct to me , which indeed was very unjust to me , for i had never had the least thought of what she suspected as to her younger brother ; indeed , the elder brother , in his distant , remote way , had said a great many things as in jest , which i had the folly to believe were in earnest , or to flatter myself with the hopes of what i ought to have supposed he never intended , and perhaps never thought of .
it happened one day that he came running upstairs , towards the room where his sisters used to sit and work , as he often used to do ; and calling to them before he came in , as was his way too , i , being there alone , stepped to the door , and said , ' sir , the ladies are not here , they are walked down the garden . '
as i stepped forward to say this , towards the door , he was just got to the door , and clasping me in his arms , as if it had been by chance , ' oh , mrs. betty , ' says he , ' are you here ?
that 's better still ; i want to speak with you more than i do with them ' ; and then , having me in his arms , he kissed me three or four times .
i struggled to get away , and yet did it but faintly neither , and he held me fast , and still kissed me , till he was almost out of breath , and then , sitting down , says , ' dear betty , i am in love with you . '
his words , i must confess , fired my blood ; all my spirits flew about my heart and put me into disorder enough , which he might easily have seen in my face .
he repeated it afterwards several times , that he was in love with me , and my heart spoke as plain as a voice , that i liked it ; nay , whenever he said , ' i am in love with you , ' my blushes plainly replied , ' would you were , sir . '
however , nothing else passed at that time ; it was but a surprise , and when he was gone i soon recovered myself again .
he had stayed longer with me , but he happened to look out at the window and see his sisters coming up the garden , so he took his leave , kissed me again , told me he was very serious , and i should hear more of him very quickly , and away he went , leaving me infinitely pleased , though surprised ; and had there not been one misfortune in it , i had been in the right , but the mistake lay here , that mrs. betty was in earnest and the gentleman was not .
from this time my head ran upon strange things , and i may truly say i was not myself ; to have such a gentleman talk to me of being in love with me , and of my being such a charming creature , as he told me i was ; these were things i knew not how to bear , my vanity was elevated to the last degree .
it is true i had my head full of pride , but , knowing nothing of the wickedness of the times , i had not one thought of my own safety or of my virtue about me ; and had my young master offered it at first sight , he might have taken any liberty he thought fit with me ; but he did not see his advantage , which was my happiness for that time .
after this attack it was not long but he found an opportunity to catch me again , and almost in the same posture ; indeed , it had more of design in it on his part , though not on my part .
it was thus : the young ladies were all gone a-visiting with their mother ; his brother was out of town ; and as for his father , he had been in london for a week before . he had so well watched me that he knew where i was , though i did not so much as know that he was in the house ; and he briskly comes up the stairs and , seeing me at work , comes into the room to me directly , and began just as he did before , with taking me in his arms , and kissing me for almost a quarter of an hour together .
it was his younger sister 's chamber that i was in , and as there was nobody in the house but the maids below-stairs , he was , it may be , the ruder ; in short , he began to be in earnest with me indeed . perhaps he found me a little too easy , for god knows i made no resistance to him while he only held me in his arms and kissed me ; indeed , i was too well pleased with it to resist him much .
however , as it were , tired with that kind of work , we sat down , and there he talked with me a great while ; he said he was charmed with me , and that he could not rest night or day till he had told me how he was in love with me , and , if i was able to love him again , and would make him happy , i should be the saving of his life , and many such fine things .
i said little to him again , but easily discovered that i was a fool , and that i did not in the least perceive what he meant .
then he walked about the room , and taking me by the hand , i walked with him ; and by and by , taking his advantage , he threw me down upon the bed , and kissed me there most violently ; but , to give him his due , offered no manner of rudeness to me , only kissed a great while . after this he thought he had heard somebody come upstairs , so got off from the bed , lifted me up , professing a great deal of love for me , but told me it was all an honest affection , and that he meant no ill to me ; and with that he put five guineas into my hand , and went away downstairs .
i was more confounded with the money than i was before with the love , and began to be so elevated that i scarce knew the ground i stood on .
this young gentleman had fired his inclination as much as he had my vanity , and , as if he had found that he had an opportunity and was sorry he did not take hold of it , he comes up again in half an hour or thereabouts , and falls to work with me again as before , only with a little less introduction .
and first , when he entered the room , he turned about and shut the door .
'mrs . betty , ' said he , ' i fancied before somebody was coming upstairs , but it was not so ; however , ' adds he , ' if they find me in the room with you , they shan 't catch me a-kissing of you . '
i told him i did not know who should be coming upstairs , for i believed there was nobody in the house but the cook and the other maid , and they never came up those stairs .
'well , my dear , ' says he , " tis good to be sure , however ' ; and so he sits down , and we began to talk .
and now , though i was still all on fire with his first visit , and said little , he did as it were put words in my mouth , telling me how passionately he loved me , and that though he could not mention such a thing till he came to this estate , yet he was resolved to make me happy then , and himself too ; that is to say , to marry me , and abundance of such fine things , which i , poor fool , did not understand the drift of , but acted as if there was no such thing as any kind of love but that which tended to matrimony ; and if he had spoke of that , i had no room , as well as no power , to have said no ; but we were not come that length yet .
we had not sat long , but he got up , and , stopping my very breath with kisses , threw me upon the bed again ; but then being both well warmed , he went farther with me than decency permits me to mention , nor had it been in my power to have denied him at that moment , had he offered much more than he did .
however , though he took these freedoms with me , it did not go to that which they call the last favour , which , to do him justice , he did not attempt ; and he made that self-denial of his a plea for all his freedoms with me upon other occasions after this .
when this was over , he stayed but a little while , but he put almost a handful of gold in my hand , and left me , making a thousand protestations of his passion for me , and of his loving me above all the women in the world .
it will not be strange if i now began to think , but alas ! it was but with very little solid reflection .
i had a most unbounded stock of vanity and pride , and but a very little stock of virtue .
i did indeed case sometimes with myself what young master aimed at , but thought of nothing but the fine words and the gold ; whether he intended to marry me , or not to marry me , seemed a matter of no great consequence to me ; nor did my thoughts so much as suggest to me the necessity of making any capitulation for myself , till he came to make a kind of formal proposal to me , as you shall hear presently .
thus i gave up myself to a readiness of being ruined without the least concern and am a fair memento to all young women whose vanity prevails over their virtue .
nothing was ever so stupid on both sides . had i acted as became me , and resisted as virtue and honour require , this gentleman had either desisted his attacks , finding no room to expect the accomplishment of his design , or had made fair and honourable proposals of marriage ; in which case , whoever had blamed him , nobody could have blamed me .
in short , if he had known me , and how easy the trifle he aimed at was to be had , he would have troubled his head no farther , but have given me four or five guineas , and have lain with me the next time he had come at me .
and if i had known his thoughts , and how hard he thought i would be to be gained , i might have made my own terms with him ; and if i had not capitulated for an immediate marriage , i might for a maintenance till marriage , and might have had what i would ; for he was already rich to excess , besides what he had in expectation ; but i seemed wholly to have abandoned all such thoughts as these , and was taken up only with the pride of my beauty , and of being beloved by such a gentleman . as for the gold , i spent whole hours in looking upon it ; i told the guineas over and over a thousand times a day .
never poor vain creature was so wrapt up with every part of the story as i was , not considering what was before me , and how near my ruin was at the door ; indeed , i think i rather wished for that ruin than studied to avoid it .
in the meantime , however , i was cunning enough not to give the least room to any in the family to suspect me , or to imagine that i had the least correspondence with this young gentleman .
i scarce ever looked towards him in public , or answered if he spoke to me when anybody was near us ; but for all that , we had every now and then a little encounter , where we had room for a word or two , an now and then a kiss , but no fair opportunity for the mischief intended ; and especially considering that he made more circumlocution than , if he had known by thoughts , he had occasion for ; and the work appearing difficult to him , he really made it so .
but as the devil is an unwearied tempter , so he never fails to find opportunity for that wickedness he invites to .
it was one evening that i was in the garden , with his two younger sisters and himself , and all very innocently merry , when he found means to convey a note into my hand , by which he directed me to understand that he would to-morrow desire me publicly to go of an errand for him into the town , and that i should see him somewhere by the way .
accordingly , after dinner , he very gravely says to me , his sisters being all by , ' mrs. betty , i must ask a favour of you . '
'what 's that ? ' says his second sister .
'nay , sister , ' says he very gravely , ' if you can 't spare mrs. betty to-day , any other time will do . '
yes , they said , they could spare her well enough , and the sister begged pardon for asking , which they did but of mere course , without any meaning .
'well , but , brother , ' says the eldest sister , ' you must tell mrs. betty what it is ; if it be any private business that we must not hear , you may call her out . there she is . '
'why , sister , ' says the gentleman very gravely , ' what do you mean ?
i only desire her to go into the high street ' ( and then he pulls out a turnover ) , ' to such a shop ' ; and then he tells them a long story of two fine neckcloths he had bid money for , and he wanted to have me go and make an errand to buy a neck to the turnover that he showed , to see if they would take my money for the neckcloths ; to bid a shilling more , and haggle with them ; and then he made more errands , and so continued to have such petty business to do , that i should be sure to stay a good while .
when he had given me my errands , he told them a long story of a visit he was going to make to a family they all knew , and where was to be such-and-such gentlemen , and how merry they were to be , and very formally asks his sisters to go with him , and they as formally excused themselves , because of company that they had notice was to come and visit them that afternoon ; which , by the way , he had contrived on purpose .
he had scarce done speaking to them , and giving me my errand , but his man came up to tell him that sir w---- h---- ' s coach stopped at the door ; so he runs down , and comes up again immediately .
'alas ! ' says he aloud , ' there 's all my mirth spoiled at once ; sir w---- has sent his coach for me , and desires to speak with me upon some earnest business . '
it seems this sir w---- was a gentleman who lived about three miles out of town , to whom he had spoken on purpose the day before , to lend him his chariot for a particular occasion , and had appointed it to call for him , as it did , about three o 'clock .
immediately he calls for his best wig , hat , and sword , and ordering his man to go to the other place to make his excuse-- that was to say , he made an excuse to send his man away--he prepares to go into the coach .
as he was going , he stopped a while , and speaks mighty earnestly to me about his business , and finds an opportunity to say very softly to me , ' come away , my dear , as soon as ever you can . '
i said nothing , but made a curtsy , as if i had done so to what he said in public .
in about a quarter of an hour i went out too ; i had no dress other than before , except that i had a hood , a mask , a fan , and a pair of gloves in my pocket ; so that there was not the least suspicion in the house .
he waited for me in the coach in a back-lane , which he knew i must pass by , and had directed the coachman whither to go , which was to a certain place , called mile end , where lived a confidant of his , where we went in , and where was all the convenience in the world to be as wicked as we pleased .
when we were together he began to talk very gravely to me , and to tell me he did not bring me there to betray me ; that his passion for me would not suffer him to abuse me ; that he resolved to marry me as soon as he came to his estate ; that in the meantime , if i would grant his request , he would maintain me very honourably ; and made me a thousand protestations of his sincerity and of his affection to me ; and that he would never abandon me , and as i may say , made a thousand more preambles than he need to have done .
however , as he pressed me to speak , i told him i had no reason to question the sincerity of his love to me after so many protestations , but--and there i stopped , as if i left him to guess the rest .
'but what , my dear ? ' says he . ' i guess what you mean : what if you should be with child ?
is not that it ?
why , then , ' says he , ' i 'll take care of you and provide for you , and the child too ; and that you may see i am not in jest , ' says he , ' here 's an earnest for you , ' and with that he pulls out a silk purse , with an hundred guineas in it , and gave it me . ' and i 'll give you such another , ' says he , ' every year till i marry you . '
my colour came and went , at the sight of the purse and with the fire of his proposal together , so that i could not say a word , and he easily perceived it ; so putting the purse into my bosom , i made no more resistance to him , but let him do just what he pleased , and as often as he pleased ; and thus i finished my own destruction at once , for from this day , being forsaken of my virtue and my modesty , i had nothing of value left to recommend me , either to god 's blessing or man 's assistance .
but things did not end here .
i went back to the town , did the business he publicly directed me to , and was at home before anybody thought me long . as for my gentleman , he stayed out , as he told me he would , till late at night , and there was not the least suspicion in the family either on his account or on mine .
we had , after this , frequent opportunities to repeat our crime --chiefly by his contrivance--especially at home , when his mother and the young ladies went abroad a-visiting , which he watched so narrowly as never to miss ; knowing always beforehand when they went out , and then failed not to catch me all alone , and securely enough ; so that we took our fill of our wicked pleasure for near half a year ; and yet , which was the most to my satisfaction , i was not with child .
but before this half-year was expired , his younger brother , of whom i have made some mention in the beginning of the story , falls to work with me ; and he , finding me alone in the garden one evening , begins a story of the same kind to me , made good honest professions of being in love with me , and in short , proposes fairly and honourably to marry me , and that before he made any other offer to me at all .
i was now confounded , and driven to such an extremity as the like was never known ; at least not to me . i resisted the proposal with obstinacy ; and now i began to arm myself with arguments . i laid before him the inequality of the match ; the treatment i should meet with in the family ; the ingratitude it would be to his good father and mother , who had taken me into their house upon such generous principles , and when i was in such a low condition ; and , in short , i said everything to dissuade him from his design that i could imagine , except telling him the truth , which would indeed have put an end to it all , but that i durst not think of mentioning .
but here happened a circumstance that i did not expect indeed , which put me to my shifts ; for this young gentleman , as he was plain and honest , so he pretended to nothing with me but what was so too ; and , knowing his own innocence , he was not so careful to make his having a kindness for mrs. betty a secret i the house , as his brother was . and though he did not let them know that he had talked to me about it , yet he said enough to let his sisters perceive he loved me , and his mother saw it too , which , though they took no notice of it to me , yet they did to him , an immediately i found their carriage to me altered , more than ever before .
i saw the cloud , though i did not foresee the storm . it was easy , i say , to see that their carriage to me was altered , and that it grew worse and worse every day ; till at last i got information among the servants that i should , in a very little while , be desired to remove .
i was not alarmed at the news , having a full satisfaction that i should be otherwise provided for ; and especially considering that i had reason every day to expect i should be with child , and that then i should be obliged to remove without any pretences for it .
after some time the younger gentleman took an opportunity to tell me that the kindness he had for me had got vent in the family . he did not charge me with it , he said , for he know well enough which way it came out . he told me his plain way of talking had been the occasion of it , for that he did not make his respect for me so much a secret as he might have done , and the reason was , that he was at a point , that if i would consent to have him , he would tell them all openly that he loved me , and that he intended to marry me ; that it was true his father and mother might resent it , and be unkind , but that he was now in a way to live , being bred to the law , and he did not fear maintaining me agreeable to what i should expect ; and that , in short , as he believed i would not be ashamed of him , so he was resolved not to be ashamed of me , and that he scorned to be afraid to own me now , whom he resolved to own after i was his wife , and therefore i had nothing to do but to give him my hand , and he would answer for all the rest .
i was now in a dreadful condition indeed , and now i repented heartily my easiness with the eldest brother ; not from any reflection of conscience , but from a view of the happiness i might have enjoyed , and had now made impossible ; for though i had no great scruples of conscience , as i have said , to struggle with , yet i could not think of being a whore to one brother and a wife to the other . but then it came into my thoughts that the first brother had promised to made me his wife when he came to his estate ; but i presently remembered what i had often thought of , that he had never spoken a word of having me for a wife after he had conquered me for a mistress ; and indeed , till now , though i said i thought of it often , yet it gave me no disturbance at all , for as he did not seem in the least to lessen his affection to me , so neither did he lessen his bounty , though he had the discretion himself to desire me not to lay out a penny of what he gave me in clothes , or to make the least show extraordinary , because it would necessarily give jealousy in the family , since everybody know i could come at such things no manner of ordinary way , but by some private friendship , which they would presently have suspected . but i was now in a great strait , and knew not what to do . the main difficulty was this : the younger brother not only laid close siege to me , but suffered it to be seen .
he would come into his sister 's room , and his mother 's room , and sit down , and talk a thousand kind things of me , and to me , even before their faces , and when they were all there . this grew so public that the whole house talked of it , and his mother reproved him for it , and their carriage to me appeared quite altered . in short , his mother had let fall some speeches , as if she intended to put me out of the family ; that is , in english , to turn me out of doors .
now i was sure this could not be a secret to his brother , only that he might not think , as indeed nobody else yet did , that the youngest brother had made any proposal to me about it ; but as i easily could see that it would go farther , so i saw likewise there was an absolute necessity to speak of it to him , or that he would speak of it to me , and which to do first i knew not ; that is , whether i should break it to him or let it alone till he should break it to me .
upon serious consideration , for indeed now i began to consider things very seriously , and never till now ; i say , upon serious consideration , i resolved to tell him of it first ; and it was not long before i had an opportunity , for the very next day his brother went to london upon some business , and the family being out a-visiting , just as it had happened before , and as indeed was often the case , he came according to his custom , to spend an hour or two with mrs. betty .
when he came had had sat down a while , he easily perceived there was an alteration in my countenance , that i was not so free and pleasant with him as i used to be , and particularly , that i had been a-crying ; he was not long before he took notice of it , and asked me in very kind terms what was the matter , and if anything troubled me .
i would have put it off if i could , but it was not to be concealed ; so after suffering many importunities to draw that out of me which i longed as much as possible to disclose , i told him that it was true something did trouble me , and something of such a nature that i could not conceal from him , and yet that i could not tell how to tell him of it neither ; that it was a thing that not only surprised me , but greatly perplexed me , and that i knew not what course to take , unless he would direct me .
he told me with great tenderness , that let it be what it would , i should not let it trouble me , for he would protect me from all the world .
i then began at a distance , and told him i was afraid the ladies had got some secret information of our correspondence ; for that it was easy to see that their conduct was very much changed towards me for a great while , and that now it was come to that pass that they frequently found fault with me , and sometimes fell quite out with me , though i never gave them the least occasion ; that whereas i used always to lie with the eldest sister , i was lately put to lie by myself , or with one of the maids ; and that i had overheard them several times talking very unkindly about me ; but that which confirmed it all was , that one of the servants had told me that she had heard i was to be turned out , and that it was not safe for the family that i should be any longer in the house .
he smiled when he herd all this , and i asked him how he could make so light of it , when he must needs know that if there was any discovery i was undone for ever , and that even it would hurt him , though not ruin him as it would me .
i upbraided him , that he was like all the rest of the sex , that , when they had the character and honour of a woman at their mercy , oftentimes made it their jest , and at least looked upon it as a trifle , and counted the ruin of those they had had their will of as a thing of no value .
he saw me warm and serious , and he changed his style immediately ; he told me he was sorry i should have such a thought of him ; that he had never given me the least occasion for it , but had been as tender of my reputation as he could be of his own ; that he was sure our correspondence had been managed with so much address , that not one creature in the family had so much as a suspicion of it ; that if he smiled when i told him my thoughts , it was at the assurance he lately received , that our understanding one another was not so much as known or guessed at ; and that when he had told me how much reason he had to be easy , i should smile as he did , for he was very certain it would give me a full satisfaction .
'this is a mystery i cannot understand , ' says i , ' or how it should be to my satisfaction that i am to be turned out of doors ; for if our correspondence is not discovered , i know not what else i have done to change the countenances of the whole family to me , or to have them treat me as they do now , who formerly used me with so much tenderness , as if i had been one of their own children . '
'why , look you , child , ' says he , ' that they are uneasy about you , that is true ; but that they have the least suspicion of the case as it is , and as it respects you and i , is so far from being true , that they suspect my brother robin ; and , in short , they are fully persuaded he makes love to you ; nay , the fool has put it into their heads too himself , for he is continually bantering them about it , and making a jest of himself .
i confess i think he is wrong to do so , because he cannot but see it vexes them , and makes them unkind to you ; but ' tis a satisfaction to me , because of the assurance it gives me , that they do not suspect me in the least , and i hope this will be to your satisfaction too . '
'so it is , ' says i , ' one way ; but this does not reach my case at all , nor is this the chief thing that troubles me , though i have been concerned about that too . '
'what is it , then ? ' says he .
with which i fell to tears , and could say nothing to him at all . he strove to pacify me all he could , but began at last to be very pressing upon me to tell what it was . at last i answered that i thought i ought to tell him too , and that he had some right to know it ; besides , that i wanted his direction in the case , for i was in such perplexity that i knew not what course to take , and then i related the whole affair to him . i told him how imprudently his brother had managed himself , in making himself so public ; for that if he had kept it a secret , as such a thing out to have been , i could but have denied him positively , without giving any reason for it , and he would in time have ceased his solicitations ; but that he had the vanity , first , to depend upon it that i would not deny him , and then had taken the freedom to tell his resolution of having me to the whole house .
i told him how far i had resisted him , and told him how sincere and honourable his offers were .
'but , ' says i , ' my case will be doubly hard ; for as they carry it ill to me now , because he desires to have me , they 'll carry it worse when they shall find i have denied him ; and they will presently say , there 's something else in it , and then out it comes that i am married already to somebody else , or that i would never refuse a match so much above me as this was . '
this discourse surprised him indeed very much . he told me that it was a critical point indeed for me to manage , and he did not see which way i should get out of it ; but he would consider it , and let me know next time we met , what resolution he was come to about it ; and in the meantime desired i would not give my consent to his brother , nor yet give him a flat denial , but that i would hold him in suspense a while .
i seemed to start at his saying i should not give him my consent . i told him he knew very well i had no consent to give ; that he had engaged himself to marry me , and that my consent was the same time engaged to him ; that he had all along told me i was his wife , and i looked upon myself as effectually so as if the ceremony had passed ; and that it was from his own mouth that i did so , he having all along persuaded me to call myself his wife .
'well , my dear , ' says he , ' don 't be concerned at that now ; if i am not your husband , i 'll be as good as a husband to you ; and do not let those things trouble you now , but let me look a little farther into this affair , and i shall be able to say more next time we meet . '
he pacified me as well as he could with this , but i found he was very thoughtful , and that though he was very kind to me and kissed me a thousand times , and more i believe , and gave me money too , yet he offered no more all the while we were together , which was above two hours , and which i much wondered at indeed at that time , considering how it used to be , and what opportunity we had .
his brother did not come from london for five or six days , and it was two days more before he got an opportunity to talk with him ; but then getting him by himself he began to talk very close to him about it , and the same evening got an opportunity ( for we had a long conference together ) to repeat all their discourse to me , which , as near as i can remember , was to the purpose following .
he told him he heard strange news of him since he went , viz. that he made love to mrs. betty .
'well , says his brother a little angrily , ' and so i do . and what then ?
what has anybody to do with that ? '
'nay , ' says his brother , ' don 't be angry , robin ; i don 't pretend to have anything to do with it ; nor do i pretend to be angry with you about it . but i find they do concern themselves about it , and that they have used the poor girl ill about it , which i should take as done to myself . '
'whom do you mean by they ? ' says robin .
'i mean my mother and the girls , ' says the elder brother .
'but hark ye , ' says his brother , ' are you in earnest ? do you really love this girl ?
you may be free with me , you know . ' ' why , then , ' says robin , ' i will be free with you ; i do love her above all the women in the world , and i will have her , let them say and do what they will . i believe the girl will not deny me . '
it struck me to the heart when he told me this , for though it was most rational to think i would not deny him , yet i knew in my own conscience i must deny him , and i saw my ruin in my being obliged to do so ; but i knew it was my business to talk otherwise then , so i interrupted him in his story thus .
'ay ! ' said i , ' does he think i cannot deny him ? but he shall find i can deny him , for all that . '
'well , my dear , ' says he , ' but let me give you the whole story as it went on between us , and then say what you will . '
then he went on and told me that he replied thus : ' but , brother , you know she has nothing , and you may have several ladies with good fortunes . '
" tis no matter for that , ' said robin ; ' i love the girl , and i will never please my pocket in marrying , and not please my fancy . '
'and so , my dear , ' adds he , ' there is no opposing him . '
'yes , yes , ' says i , ' you shall see i can oppose him ; i have learnt to say no , now though i had not learnt it before ; if the best lord in the land offered me marriage now , i could very cheerfully say no to him . '
'well , but , my dear , ' says he , ' what can you say to him ?
you know , as you said when we talked of it before , he well ask you many questions about it , and all the house will wonder what the meaning of it should be . '
'why , ' says i , smiling , ' i can stop all their mouths at one clap by telling him , and them too , that i am married already to his elder brother . '
he smiled a little too at the word , but i could see it startled him , and he could not hide the disorder it put him into .
however , he returned , ' why , though that may be true in some sense , yet i suppose you are but in jest when you talk of giving such an answer as that ; it may not be convenient on many accounts . '
'no , no , ' says i pleasantly , ' i am not so fond of letting the secret come out without your consent . '
'but what , then , can you say to him , or to them , ' says he , ' when they find you positive against a match which would be apparently so much to your advantage ? '
'why , ' says i , ' should i be at a loss ?
first of all , i am not obliged to give me any reason at all ; on the other hand , i may tell them i am married already , and stop there , and that will be a full stop too to him , for he can have no reason to ask one question after it . '
'ay , ' says he ; ' but the whole house will tease you about that , even to father and mother , and if you deny them positively , they will be disobliged at you , and suspicious besides . '
'why , ' says i , ' what can i do ?
what would have me do ?
i was in straight enough before , and as i told you , i was in perplexity before , and acquainted you with the circumstances , that i might have your advice . '
'my dear , ' says he , ' i have been considering very much upon it , you may be sure , and though it is a piece of advice that has a great many mortifications in it to me , and may at first seem strange to you , yet , all things considered , i see no better way for you than to let him go on ; and if you find him hearty and in earnest , marry him . '
i gave him a look full of horror at those words , and , turning pale as death , was at the very point of sinking down out of the chair i sat in ; when , giving a start , ' my dear , ' says he aloud , ' what 's the matter with you ? where are you a-going ? ' and a great many such things ; and with jogging and called to me , fetched me a little to myself , though it was a good while before i fully recovered my senses , and was not able to speak for several minutes more .
when i was fully recovered he began again .
'my dear , ' says he , ' what made you so surprised at what i said ? i would have you consider seriously of it ? you may see plainly how the family stand in this case , and they would be stark mad if it was my case , as it is my brother 's ; and for aught i see , it would be my ruin and yours too . '
'ay ! ' says i , still speaking angrily ; ' are all your protestations and vows to be shaken by the dislike of the family ?
did i not always object that to you , and you made light thing of it , as what you were above , and would value ; and is it come to this now ? ' said i .
'is this your faith and honour , your love , and the solidity of your promises ? '
he continued perfectly calm , notwithstanding all my reproaches , and i was not sparing of them at all ; but he replied at last , ' my dear , i have not broken one promise with you yet ; i did tell you i would marry you when i was come to my estate ; but you see my father is a hale , healthy man , and may live these thirty years still , and not be older than several are round us in town ; and you never proposed my marrying you sooner , because you knew it might be my ruin ; and as to all the rest , i have not failed you in anything , you have wanted for nothing . '
i could not deny a word of this , and had nothing to say to it in general .
'but why , then , ' says i , ' can you persuade me to such a horrid step as leaving you , since you have not left me ?
will you allow no affection , no love on my side , where there has been so much on your side ?
have i made you no returns ?
have i given no testimony of my sincerity and of my passion ?
are the sacrifices i have made of honour and modesty to you no proof of my being tied to you in bonds too strong to be broken ? '
'but here , my dear , ' says he , ' you may come into a safe station , and appear with honour and with splendour at once , and the remembrance of what we have done may be wrapt up in an eternal silence , as if it had never happened ; you shall always have my respect , and my sincere affection , only then it shall be honest , and perfectly just to my brother ; you shall be my dear sister , as now you are my dear---- ' and there he stopped .
'your dear whore , ' says i , ' you would have said if you had gone on , and you might as well have said it ; but i understand you . however , i desire you to remember the long discourses you have had with me , and the many hours ' pains you have taken to persuade me to believe myself an honest woman ; that i was your wife intentionally , though not in the eyes of the world , and that it was as effectual a marriage that had passed between us as is we had been publicly wedded by the parson of the parish .
you know and cannot but remember that these have been your own words to me . ' i found this was a little too close upon him , but i made it up in what follows .
he stood stock-still for a while and said nothing , and i went on thus : ' you cannot , ' says i , ' without the highest injustice , believe that i yielded upon all these persuasions without a love not to be questioned , not to be shaken again by anything that could happen afterward . if you have such dishonourable thoughts of me , i must ask you what foundation in any of my behaviour have i given for such a suggestion ?
'if , then , i have yielded to the importunities of my affection , and if i have been persuaded to believe that i am really , and in the essence of the thing , your wife , shall i now give the lie to all those arguments and call myself your whore , or mistress , which is the same thing ?
and will you transfer me to your brother ?
can you transfer my affection ?
can you bid me cease loving you , and bid me love him ?
it is in my power , think you , to make such a change at demand ?
no , sir , ' said i , ' depend upon it ' tis impossible , and whatever the change of your side may be , i will ever be true ; and i had much rather , since it is come that unhappy length , be your whore than your brother 's wife . '
he appeared pleased and touched with the impression of this last discourse , and told me that he stood where he did before ; that he had not been unfaithful to me in any one promise he had ever made yet , but that there were so many terrible things presented themselves to his view in the affair before me , and that on my account in particular , that he had thought of the other as a remedy so effectual as nothing could come up to it . that he thought this would not be entire parting us , but we might love as friends all our days , and perhaps with more satisfaction than we should in the station we were now in , as things might happen ; that he durst say , i could not apprehend anything from him as to betraying a secret , which could not but be the destruction of us both , if it came out ; that he had but one question to ask of me that could lie in the way of it , and if that question was answered in the negative , he could not but think still it was the only step i could take .
i guessed at his question presently , namely , whether i was sure i was not with child ?
as to that , i told him he need not be concerned about it , for i was not with child .
'why , then , my dear , ' says he , ' we have no time to talk further now . consider of it , and think closely about it ; i cannot but be of the opinion still , that it will be the best course you can take . '
and with this he took his leave , and the more hastily too , his mother and sisters ringing at the gate , just at the moment that he had risen up to go .
he left me in the utmost confusion of thought ; and he easily perceived it the next day , and all the rest of the week , for it was but tuesday evening when we talked ; but he had no opportunity to come at me all that week , till the sunday after , when i , being indisposed , did not go to church , and he , making some excuse for the like , stayed at home .
and now he had me an hour and a half again by myself , and we fell into the same arguments all over again , or at least so near the same , as it would be to no purpose to repeat them . at last i asked him warmly , what opinion he must have of my modesty , that he could suppose i should so much as entertain a thought of lying with two brothers , and assured him it could never be . i added , if he was to tell me that he would never see me more , than which nothing but death could be more terrible , yet i could never entertain a thought so dishonourable to myself , and so base to him ; and therefore , i entreated him , if he had one grain of respect or affection left for me , that he would speak no more of it to me , or that he would pull his sword out and kill me .
he appeared surprised at my obstinacy , as he called it ; told me i was unkind to myself , and unkind to him in it ; that it was a crisis unlooked for upon us both , and impossible for either of us to foresee , but that he did not see any other way to save us both from ruin , and therefore he thought it the more unkind ; but that if he must say no more of it to me , he added with an unusual coldness , that he did not know anything else we had to talk of ; and so he rose up to take his leave . i rose up too , as if with the same indifference ; but when he came to give me as it were a parting kiss , i burst out into such a passion of crying , that though i would have spoke , i could not , and only pressing his hand , seemed to give him the adieu , but cried vehemently .
he was sensibly moved with this ; so he sat down again , and said a great many kind things to me , to abate the excess of my passion , but still urged the necessity of what he had proposed ; all the while insisting , that if i did refuse , he would notwithstanding provide for me ; but letting me plainly see that he would decline me in the main point--nay , even as a mistress ; making it a point of honour not to lie with the woman that , for aught he knew , might come to be his brother 's wife .
the bare loss of him as a gallant was not so much my affliction as the loss of his person , whom indeed i loved to distraction ; and the loss of all the expectations i had , and which i always had built my hopes upon , of having him one day for my husband . these things oppressed my mind so much , that , in short , i fell very ill ; the agonies of my mind , in a word , threw me into a high fever , and long it was , that none in the family expected my life .
i was reduced very low indeed , and was often delirious and light-headed ; but nothing lay so near me as the fear that , when i was light-headed , i should say something or other to his prejudice .
i was distressed in my mind also to see him , and so he was to see me , for he really loved me most passionately ; but it could not be ; there was not the least room to desire it on one side or other , or so much as to make it decent .
it was near five weeks that i kept my bed and though the violence of my fever abated in three weeks , yet it several times returned ; and the physicians said two or three times , they could do no more for me , but that they must leave nature and the distemper to fight it out , only strengthening the first with cordials to maintain the struggle . after the end of five weeks i grew better , but was so weak , so altered , so melancholy , and recovered so slowly , that they physicians apprehended i should go into a consumption ; and which vexed me most , they gave it as their opinion that my mind was oppressed , that something troubled me , and , in short , that i was in love .
upon this , the whole house was set upon me to examine me , and to press me to tell whether i was in love or not , and with whom ; but as i well might , i denied my being in love at all .
they had on this occasion a squabble one day about me at table , that had like to have put the whole family in an uproar , and for some time did so .
they happened to be all at table but the father ; as for me , i was ill , and in my chamber . at the beginning of the talk , which was just as they had finished their dinner , the old gentlewoman , who had sent me somewhat to eat , called her maid to go up and ask me if i would have any more ; but the maid brought down word i had not eaten half what she had sent me already .
'alas , says the old lady , ' that poor girl !
i am afraid she will never be well . '
'well ! ' says the elder brother , ' how should mrs. betty be well ? they say she is in love . '
'i believe nothing of it , ' says the old gentlewoman .
'i don 't know , ' says the eldest sister , ' what to say to it ; they have made such a rout about her being so handsome , and so charming , and i know not what , and that in her hearing too , that has turned the creature 's head , i believe , and who knows what possessions may follow such doings ? for my part , i don 't know what to make of it . '
'why , sister , you must acknowledge she is very handsome , ' says the elder brother .
'ay , and a great deal handsomer than you , sister , ' says robin , ' and that 's your mortification . '
'well , well , that is not the question , ' says his sister ; ' that girl is well enough , and she knows it well enough ; she need not be told of it to make her vain . '
'we are not talking of her being vain , ' says the elder brother , ' but of her being in love ; it may be she is in love with herself ; it seems my sisters think so . '
'i would she was in love with me , ' says robin ; ' i 'd quickly put her out of her pain . '
'what d 'ye mean by that , son , ' says the old lady ; ' how can you talk so ? '
'why , madam , ' says robin , again , very honestly , ' do you think i 'd let the poor girl die for love , and of one that is near at hand to be had , too ? '
'fie , brother ! ' , says the second sister , ' how can you talk so ?
would you take a creature that has not a groat in the world ? '
'prithee , child , ' says robin , ' beauty 's a portion , and good-humour with it is a double portion ; i wish thou hadst half her stock of both for thy portion . '
so there was her mouth stopped .
'i find , ' says the eldest sister , ' if betty is not in love , my brother is . i wonder he has not broke his mind to betty ; i warrant she won 't say no . '
'they that yield when they 're asked , ' says robin , ' are one step before them that were never asked to yield , sister , and two steps before them that yield before they are asked ; and that 's an answer to you , sister . '
this fired the sister , and she flew into a passion , and said , things were come to that pass that it was time the wench , meaning me , was out of the family ; and but that she was not fit to be turned out , she hoped her father and mother would consider of it as soon as she could be removed .
robin replied , that was business for the master and mistress of the family , who where not to be taught by one that had so little judgment as his eldest sister .
it ran up a great deal farther ; the sister scolded , robin rallied and bantered , but poor betty lost ground by it extremely in the family .
i heard of it , and i cried heartily , and the old lady came up to me , somebody having told her that i was so much concerned about it .
i complained to her , that it was very hard the doctors should pass such a censure upon me , for which they had no ground ; and that it was still harder , considering the circumstances i was under in the family ; that i hoped i had done nothing to lessen her esteem for me , or given any occasion for the bickering between her sons and daughters , and i had more need to think of a coffin than of being in love , and begged she would not let me suffer in her opinion for anybody 's mistakes but my own .
she was sensible of the justice of what i said , but told me , since there had been such a clamour among them , and that her younger son talked after such a rattling way as he did , she desired i would be so faithful to her as to answer her but one question sincerely .
i told her i would , with all my heart , and with the utmost plainness and sincerity .
why , then , the question was , whether there way anything between her son robert and me .
i told her with all the protestations of sincerity that i was able to make , and as i might well , do , that there was not , nor every had been ; i told her that mr. robert had rattled and jested , as she knew it was his way , and that i took it always , as i supposed he meant it , to be a wild airy way of discourse that had no signification in it ; and again assured her , that there was not the least tittle of what she understood by it between us ; and that those who had suggested it had done me a great deal of wrong , and mr. robert no service at all .
the old lady was fully satisfied , and kissed me , spoke cheerfully to me , and bid me take care of my health and want for nothing , and so took her leave . but when she came down she found the brother and all his sisters together by the ears ; they were angry , even to passion , at his upbraiding them with their being homely , and having never had any sweethearts , never having been asked the question , and their being so forward as almost to ask first . he rallied them upon the subject of mrs. betty ; how pretty , how good-humoured , how she sung better then they did , and danced better , and how much handsomer she was ; and in doing this he omitted no ill-natured thing that could vex them , and indeed , pushed too hard upon them .
the old lady came down in the height of it , and to put a stop it to , told them all the discourse she had had with me , and how i answered , that there was nothing between mr. robert and i .
'she 's wrong there , ' says robin , ' for if there was not a great deal between us , we should be closer together than we are . i told her i loved her hugely , ' says he , ' but i could never make the jade believe i was in earnest . '
'i do not know how you should , ' says his mother ; ' nobody in their senses could believe you were in earnest , to talk so to a poor girl , whose circumstances you know so well .
'but prithee , son , ' adds she , ' since you tell me that you could not make her believe you were in earnest , what must we believe about it ?
for you ramble so in your discourse , that nobody knows whether you are in earnest or in jest ; but as i find the girl , by your own confession , has answered truly , i wish you would do so too , and tell me seriously , so that i may depend upon it . is there anything in it or no ?
are you in earnest or no ?
are you distracted , indeed , or are you not ?
'tis a weighty question , and i wish you would make us easy about it . '
'by my faith , madam , ' says robin , " tis in vain to mince the matter or tell any more lies about it ; i am in earnest , as much as a man is that 's going to be hanged .
if mrs. betty would say she loved me , and that she would marry me , i 'd have her tomorrow morning fasting , and say , ' to have and to hold , ' instead of eating my breakfast . '
'well , ' says the mother , ' then there 's one son lost ' ; and she said it in a very mournful tone , as one greatly concerned at it .
'i hope not , madam , ' says robin ; ' no man is lost when a good wife has found him . '
'why , but , child , ' says the old lady , ' she is a beggar . '
'why , then , madam , she has the more need of charity , ' says robin ; ' i 'll take her off the hands of the parish , and she and i 'll beg together . '
'it 's bad jesting with such things , ' says the mother .
'i don 't jest , madam , ' says robin . ' we 'll come and beg your pardon , madam ; and your blessing , madam , and my father 's . '
'this is all out of the way , son , ' says the mother . ' if you are in earnest you are undone . '
'i am afraid not , ' says he , ' for i am really afraid she won 't have me ; after all my sister 's huffing and blustering , i believe i shall never be able to persuade her to it . '
'that 's a fine tale , indeed ; she is not so far out of her senses neither . mrs. betty is no fool , ' says the younger sister . ' do you think she has learnt to say no , any more than other people ? '
'no , mrs. mirth-wit , ' says robin , ' mrs. betty 's no fool ; but mrs. betty may be engaged some other way , and what then ? '
'nay , ' says the eldest sister , ' we can say nothing to that . who must it be to , then ? she is never out of the doors ; it must be between you . '
'i have nothing to say to that , ' says robin .
'i have been examined enough ; there 's my brother . if it must be between us , go to work with him . '
this stung the elder brother to the quick , and he concluded that robin had discovered something . however , he kept himself from appearing disturbed .
'prithee , ' says he , ' don 't go to shame your stories off upon me ; i tell you , i deal in no such ware ; i have nothing to say to mrs. betty , nor to any of the mrs. bettys in the parish ' ; and with that he rose up and brushed off .
'no , ' says the eldest sister , ' i dare answer for my brother ; he knows the world better . '
thus the discourse ended , but it left the elder brother quite confounded .
he concluded his brother had made a full discovery , and he began to doubt whether i had been concerned in it or not ; but with all his management he could not bring it about to get at me . at last he was so perplexed that he was quite desperate , and resolved he would come into my chamber and see me , whatever came of it .
in order to do this , he contrived it so , that one day after dinner , watching his eldest sister till he could see her go upstairs , he runs after her .
'hark ye , sister , ' says he , ' where is this sick woman ?
may not a body see her ? '
'yes , ' says the sister , ' i believe you may ; but let me go first a little , and i 'll tell you . '
so she ran up to the door and gave me notice , and presently called to him again .
'brother , ' says she , ' you may come if you please . '
so in he came , just in the same kind of rant .
'well , ' says he at the door as he came in , ' where is this sick body that 's in love ?
how do ye do , mrs. betty ? '
i would have got up out of my chair , but was so weak i could not for a good while ; and he saw it , and his sister to , and she said , ' come , do not strive to stand up ; my brother desires no ceremony , especially now you are so weak . '
'no , no , mrs. betty , pray sit still , ' says he , and so sits himself down in a chair over against me , and appeared as if he was mighty merry .
he talked a lot of rambling stuff to his sister and to me , sometimes of one thing , sometimes of another , on purpose to amuse his sister , and every now and then would turn it upon the old story , directing it to me .
'poor mrs. betty , ' says he , ' it is a sad thing to be in love ; why , it has reduced you sadly . '
at last i spoke a little .
'i am glad to see you so merry , sir , ' says i ; ' but i think the doctor might have found something better to do than to make his game at his patients . if i had been ill of no other distemper , i know the proverb too well to have let him come to me . '
'what proverb ? ' says he , ' oh ! i remember it now .
what-- " where love is the case , the doctor 's an ass . "
is not that it , mrs. betty ? '
i smiled and said nothing .
'nay , ' says he , ' i think the effect has proved it to be love , for it seems the doctor has been able to do you but little service ; you mend very slowly , they say . i doubt there 's somewhat in it , mrs. betty ; i doubt you are sick of the incurables , and that is love . '
i smiled and said , ' no , indeed , sir , that 's none of my distemper . '
we had a deal of such discourse , and sometimes others that signified as little . by and by he asked me to sing them a song , at which i smiled , and said my singing days were over .
at last he asked me if he should play upon his flute to me ; his sister said she believe it would hurt me , and that my head could not bear it . i bowed , and said , no , it would not hurt me .
'and , pray , madam . ' said i , ' do not hinder it ; i love the music of the flute very much . '
then his sister said , ' well , do , then , brother . '
with that he pulled out the key of his closet .
'dear sister , ' says he , ' i am very lazy ; do step to my closet and fetch my flute ; it lies in such a drawer , ' naming a place where he was sure it was not , that she might be a little while a-looking for it .
as soon as she was gone , he related the whole story to me of the discourse his brother had about me , and of his pushing it at him , and his concern about it , which was the reason of his contriving this visit to me .
i assured him i had never opened my mouth either to his brother or to anybody else . i told him the dreadful exigence i was in ; that my love to him , and his offering to have me forget that affection and remove it to another , had thrown me down ; and that i had a thousand times wished i might die rather than recover , and to have the same circumstances to struggle with as i had before , and that his backwardness to life had been the great reason of the slowness of my recovering .
i added that i foresaw that as soon as i was well , i must quit the family , and that as for marrying his brother , i abhorred the thoughts of it after what had been my case with him , and that he might depend upon it i would never see his brother again upon that subject ; that if he would break all his vows and oaths and engagements with me , be that between his conscience and his honour and himself ; but he should never be able to say that i , whom he had persuaded to call myself his wife , and who had given him the liberty to use me as a wife , was not as faithful to him as a wife ought to be , whatever he might be to me .
he was going to reply , and had said that he was sorry i could not be persuaded , and was a-going to say more , but he heard his sister a-coming , and so did i ; and yet i forced out these few words as a reply , that i could never be persuaded to love one brother and marry another .
he shook his head and said , ' then i am ruined , ' meaning himself ; and that moment his sister entered the room and told him she could not find the flute .
'well , ' says he merrily , ' this laziness won 't do ' ; so he gets up and goes himself to go to look for it , but comes back without it too ; not but that he could have found it , but because his mind was a little disturbed , and he had no mind to play ; and , besides , the errand he sent his sister on was answered another way ; for he only wanted an opportunity to speak to me , which he gained , though not much to his satisfaction .
i had , however , a great deal of satisfaction in having spoken my mind to him with freedom , and with such an honest plainness , as i have related ; and though it did not at all work the way i desired , that is to say , to oblige the person to me the more , yet it took from him all possibility of quitting me but by a downright breach of honour , and giving up all the faith of a gentleman to me , which he had so often engaged by , never to abandon me , but to make me his wife as soon as he came to his estate .
it was not many weeks after this before i was about the house again , and began to grow well ; but i continued melancholy , silent , dull , and retired , which amazed the whole family , except he that knew the reason of it ; yet it was a great while before he took any notice of it , and i , as backward to speak as he , carried respectfully to him , but never offered to speak a word to him that was particular of any kind whatsoever ; and this continued for sixteen or seventeen weeks ; so that , as i expected every day to be dismissed the family , on account of what distaste they had taken another way , in which i had no guilt , so i expected to hear no more of this gentleman , after all his solemn vows and protestations , but to be ruined and abandoned .
at last i broke the way myself in the family for my removing ; for being talking seriously with the old lady one day , about my own circumstances in the world , and how my distemper had left a heaviness upon my spirits , that i was not the same thing i was before , the old lady said , ' i am afraid , betty , what i have said to you about my son has had some influence upon you , and that you are melancholy on his account ; pray , will you let me know how the matter stands with you both , if it may not be improper ? for , as for robin , he does nothing but rally and banter when i speak of it to him . '
'why , truly , madam , ' said i ' that matter stands as i wish it did not , and i shall be very sincere with you in it , whatever befalls me for it .
mr. robert has several times proposed marriage to me , which is what i had no reason to expect , my poor circumstances considered ; but i have always resisted him , and that perhaps in terms more positive than became me , considering the regard that i ought to have for every branch of your family ; but , ' said i , ' madam , i could never so far forget my obligation to you and all your house , to offer to consent to a thing which i know must needs be disobliging to you , and this i have made my argument to him , and have positively told him that i would never entertain a thought of that kind unless i had your consent , and his father 's also , to whom i was bound by so many invincible obligations . '
'and is this possible , mrs. betty ? ' says the old lady .
'then you have been much juster to us than we have been to you ; for we have all looked upon you as a kind of snare to my son , and i had a proposal to make to you for your removing , for fear of it ; but i had not yet mentioned it to you , because i thought you were not thorough well , and i was afraid of grieving you too much , lest it should throw you down again ; for we have all a respect for you still , though not so much as to have it be the ruin of my son ; but if it be as you say , we have all wronged you very much . '
'as to the truth of what i say , madam , ' said i , ' refer you to your son himself ; if he will do me any justice , he must tell you the story just as i have told it . ' away goes the old lady to her daughters and tells them the whole story , just as i had told it her ; and they were surprised at it , you may be sure , as i believed they would be .
one said she could never have thought it ; another said robin was a fool ; a third said she would not believe a word of it , and she would warrant that robin would tell the story another way . but the old gentlewoman , who was resolved to go to the bottom of it before i could have the least opportunity of acquainting her son with what had passed , resolved too that she would talk with her son immediately , and to that purpose sent for him , for he was gone but to a lawyer 's house in the town , upon some petty business of his own , and upon her sending he returned immediately .
upon his coming up to them , for they were all still together , ' sit down , robin , ' says the old lady , ' i must have some talk with you . '
'with all my heart , madam , ' says robin , looking very merry .
'i hope it is about a good wife , for i am at a great loss in that affair . '
'how can that be ? ' says his mother ; ' did not you say you resolved to have mrs. betty ? '
'ay , madam , ' says robin , ' but there is one has forbid the banns . '
'forbid , the banns ! ' says his mother ; ' who can that be ? '
'even mrs. betty herself , ' says robin .
'how so ? ' says his mother . ' have you asked her the question , then ? '
'yes , indeed , madam , ' says robin . ' i have attacked her in form five times since she was sick , and am beaten off ; the jade is so stout she won 't capitulate nor yield upon any terms , except such as i cannot effectually grant . '
'explain yourself , ' says the mother , ' for i am surprised ; i do not understand you . i hope you are not in earnest . '
'why , madam , ' says he , ' the case is plain enough upon me , it explains itself ; she won 't have me , she says ; is not that plain enough ?
i think ' tis plain , and pretty rough too . '
'well , but , ' says the mother , ' you talk of conditions that you cannot grant ; what does she want--a settlement ?
her jointure ought to be according to her portion ; but what fortune does she bring you ? '
'nay , as to fortune , ' says robin , ' she is rich enough ; i am satisfied in that point ; but ' tis i that am not able to come up to her terms , and she is positive she will not have me without . '
here the sisters put in .
'madam , ' says the second sister , " tis impossible to be serious with him ; he will never give a direct answer to anything ; you had better let him alone , and talk no more of it to him ; you know how to dispose of her out of his way if you thought there was anything in it . '
robin was a little warmed with his sister 's rudeness , but he was even with her , and yet with good manners too .
'there are two sorts of people , madam , ' says he , turning to his mother , ' that there is no contending with ; that is , a wise body and a fool ; ' tis a little hard i should engage with both of them together . '
the younger sister then put in .
'we must be fools indeed , ' says she , ' in my brother 's opinion , that he should think we can believe he has seriously asked mrs. betty to marry him , and that she has refused him . '
'answer , and answer not , say solomon , ' replied her brother . ' when your brother had said to your mother that he had asked her no less than five times , and that it was so , that she positively denied him , methinks a younger sister need not question the truth of it when her mother did not . '
'my mother , you see , did not understand it , ' says the second sister .
'there 's some difference , ' says robin , ' between desiring me to explain it , and telling me she did not believe it . '
'well , but , son , ' says the old lady , ' if you are disposed to let us into the mystery of it , what were these hard conditions ? '
'yes , madam , ' says robin , ' i had done it before now , if the teasers here had not worried my by way of interruption .
the conditions are , that i bring my father and you to consent to it , and without that she protests she will never see me more upon that head ; and to these conditions , as i said , i suppose i shall never be able to grant .
i hope my warm sisters will be answered now , and blush a little ; if not , i have no more to say till i hear further . ' this answer was surprising to them all , though less to the mother , because of what i had said to her .
as to the daughters , they stood mute a great while ; but the mother said with some passion , ' well , i had heard this before , but i could not believe it ; but if it is so , they we have all done betty wrong , and she has behaved better than i ever expected . '
'nay , ' says the eldest sister , ' if it be so , she has acted handsomely indeed . '
'i confess , ' says the mother , ' it was none of her fault , if he was fool enough to take a fancy to her ; but to give such an answer to him , shows more respect to your father and me than i can tell how to express ; i shall value the girl the better for it as long as i know her . '
'but i shall not , ' says robin , ' unless you will give your consent . '
'i 'll consider of that a while , ' says the mother ; ' i assure you , if there were not some other objections in the way , this conduct of hers would go a great way to bring me to consent . '
'i wish it would go quite through it , ' says robin ; ' if you had a much thought about making me easy as you have about making me rich , you would soon consent to it . '
'why , robin , ' says the mother again , ' are you really in earnest ? would you so fain have her as you pretend ? '
'really , madam , ' says robin , ' i think ' tis hard you should question me upon that head after all i have said . i won 't say that i will have her ; how can i resolve that point , when you see i cannot have her without your consent ? besides , i am not bound to marry at all . but this i will say , i am in earnest in , that i will never have anybody else if i can help it ; so you may determine for me . betty or nobody is the word , and the question which of the two shall be in your breast to decide , madam , provided only , that my good-humoured sisters here may have no vote in it . '
all this was dreadful to me , for the mother began to yield , and robin pressed her home on it .
on the other hand , she advised with the eldest son , and he used all the arguments in the world to persuade her to consent ; alleging his brother 's passionate love for me , and my generous regard to the family , in refusing my own advantages upon such a nice point of honour , and a thousand such things .
and as to the father , he was a man in a hurry of public affairs and getting money , seldom at home , thoughtful of the main chance , but left all those things to his wife .
you may easily believe , that when the plot was thus , as they thought , broke out , and that every one thought they knew how things were carried , it was not so difficult or so dangerous for the elder brother , whom nobody suspected of anything , to have a freer access to me than before ; nay , the mother , which was just as he wished , proposed it to him to talk with mrs. betty .
'for it may be , son , ' said she , ' you may see farther into the thing than i , and see if you think she has been so positive as robin says she has been , or no . '
this was as well as he could wish , and he , as it were , yielding to talk with me at his mother 's request , she brought me to him into her own chamber , told me her son had some business with me at her request , and desired me to be very sincere with him , and then she left us together , and he went and shut the door after her .
he came back to me and took me in his arms , and kissed me very tenderly ; but told me he had a long discourse to hold with me , and it was not come to that crisis , that i should make myself happy or miserable as long as i lived ; that the thing was now gone so far , that if i could not comply with his desire , we would both be ruined .
then he told the whole story between robin , as he called him , and his mother and sisters and himself , as it is above .
'and now , dear child , ' says he , ' consider what it will be to marry a gentleman of a good family , in good circumstances , and with the consent of the whole house , and to enjoy all that he world can give you ; and what , on the other hand , to be sunk into the dark circumstances of a woman that has lost her reputation ; and that though i shall be a private friend to you while i live , yet as i shall be suspected always , so you will be afraid to see me , and i shall be afraid to own you . '
he gave me no time to reply , but went on with me thus : ' what has happened between us , child , so long as we both agree to do so , may be buried and forgotten .
i shall always be your sincere friend , without any inclination to nearer intimacy , when you become my sister ; and we shall have all the honest part of conversation without any reproaches between us of having done amiss . i beg of you to consider it , and to not stand in the way of your own safety and prosperity ; and to satisfy you that i am sincere , ' added he , ' i here offer you # 500 in money , to make you some amends for the freedoms i have taken with you , which we shall look upon as some of the follies of our lives , which ' tis hoped we may repent of . ' he spoke this in so much more moving terms than it is possible for me to express , and with so much greater force of argument than i can repeat , that i only recommend it to those who read the story , to suppose , that as he held me above an hour and a half in that discourse , so he answered all my objections , and fortified his discourse with all the arguments that human wit and art could devise .
i cannot say , however , that anything he said made impression enough upon me so as to give me any thought of the matter , till he told me at last very plainly , that if i refused , he was sorry to add that he could never go on with me in that station as we stood before ; that though he loved me as well as ever , and that i was as agreeable to him as ever , yet sense of virtue had not so far forsaken him as to suffer him to lie with a woman that his brother courted to make his wife ; and if he took his leave of me , with a denial in this affair , whatever he might do for me in the point of support , grounded on his first engagement of maintaining me , yet he would not have me be surprised that he was obliged to tell me he could not allow himself to see me any more ; and that , indeed , i could not expect it of him .
i received this last part with some token of surprise and disorder , and had much ado to avoid sinking down , for indeed i loved him to an extravagance not easy to imagine ; but he perceived my disorder . he entreated me to consider seriously of it ; assured me that it was the only way to preserve our mutual affection ; that in this station we might love as friends , with the utmost passion , and with a love of relation untainted , free from our just reproaches , and free from other people 's suspicions ; that he should ever acknowledge his happiness owing to me ; that he would be debtor to me as long as he lived , and would be paying that debt as long as he had breath .
thus he wrought me up , in short , to a kind of hesitation in the matter ; having the dangers on one side represented in lively figures , and indeed , heightened by my imagination of being turned out to the wide world a mere cast-off whore , for it was no less , and perhaps exposed as such , with little to provide for myself , with no friend , no acquaintance in the whole world , out of that town , and there i could not pretend to stay .
all this terrified me to the last degree , and he took care upon all occasions to lay it home to me in the worst colours that it could be possible to be drawn in . on the other hand , he failed not to set forth the easy , prosperous life which i was going to live .
he answered all that i could object from affection , and from former engagements , with telling me the necessity that was before us of taking other measures now ; and as to his promises of marriage , the nature of things , he said , had put an end to that , by the probability of my being his brother 's wife , before the time to which his promises all referred .
thus , in a word , i may say , he reasoned me out of my reason ; he conquered all my arguments , and i began to see a danger that i was in , which i had not considered of before , and that was , of being dropped by both of them and left alone in the world to shift for myself .
this , and his persuasion , at length prevailed with me to consent , though with so much reluctance , that it was easy to see i should go to church like a bear to the stake . i had some little apprehensions about me , too , lest my new spouse , who , by the way , i had not the least affection for , should be skillful enough to challenge me on another account , upon our first coming to bed together . but whether he did it with design or not , i know not , but his elder brother took care to make him very much fuddled before he went to bed , so that i had the satisfaction of a drunken bedfellow the first night .
how he did it i know not , but i concluded that he certainly contrived it , that his brother might be able to make no judgment of the difference between a maid and a married woman ; nor did he ever entertain any notions of it , or disturb his thoughts about it .
i should go back a little here to where i left off .
the elder brother having thus managed me , his next business was to manage his mother , and he never left till he had brought her to acquiesce and be passive in the thing , even without acquainting the father , other than by post letters ; so that she consented to our marrying privately , and leaving her to mange the father afterwards .
then he cajoled with his brother , and persuaded him what service he had done him , and how he had brought his mother to consent , which , though true , was not indeed done to serve him , but to serve himself ; but thus diligently did he cheat him , and had the thanks of a faithful friend for shifting off his whore into his brother 's arms for a wife .
so certainly does interest banish all manner of affection , and so naturally do men give up honour and justice , humanity , and even christianity , to secure themselves .
i must now come back to brother robin , as we always called him , who having got his mother 's consent , as above , came big with the news to me , and told me the whole story of it , with a sincerity so visible , that i must confess it grieved me that i must be the instrument to abuse so honest a gentleman . but there was no remedy ; he would have me , and i was not obliged to tell him that i was his brother 's whore , though i had no other way to put him off ; so i came gradually into it , to his satisfaction , and behold we were married .
modesty forbids me to reveal the secrets of the marriage-bed , but nothing could have happened more suitable to my circumstances than that , as above , my husband was so fuddled when he came to bed , that he could not remember in the morning whether he had had any conversation with me or no , and i was obliged to tell him he had , though in reality he had not , that i might be sure he could make to inquiry about anything else .
it concerns the story in hand very little to enter into the further particulars of the family , or of myself , for the five years that i lived with this husband , only to observe that i had two children by him , and that at the end of five years he died . he had been really a very good husband to me , and we lived very agreeably together ; but as he had not received much from them , and had in the little time he lived acquired no great matters , so my circumstances were not great , nor was i much mended by the match .
indeed , i had preserved the elder brother 's bonds to me , to pay # 500 , which he offered me for my consent to marry his brother ; and this , with what i had saved of the money he formerly gave me , about as much more by my husband , left me a widow with about # 1200 in my pocket .
my two children were , indeed , taken happily off my hands by my husband 's father and mother , and that , by the way , was all they got by mrs. betty .
i confess i was not suitably affected with the loss of my husband , nor indeed can i say that i ever loved him as i ought to have done , or as was proportionable to the good usage i had from him , for he was a tender , kind , good-humoured man as any woman could desire ; but his brother being so always in my sight , at least while we were in the country , was a continual snare to me , and i never was in bed with my husband but i wished myself in the arms of his brother ; and though his brother never offered me the least kindness that way after our marriage , but carried it just as a brother out to do , yet it was impossible for me to do so to him ; in short , i committed adultery and incest with him every day in my desires , which , without doubt , was as effectually criminal in the nature of the guilt as if i had actually done it .
before my husband died his elder brother was married , and we , being then removed to london , were written to by the old lady to come and be at the wedding . my husband went , but i pretended indisposition , and that i could not possibly travel , so i stayed behind ; for , in short , i could not bear the sight of his being given to another woman , though i knew i was never to have him myself .
i was now , as above , left loose to the world , and being still young and handsome , as everybody said of me , and i assure you i thought myself so , and with a tolerable fortune in my pocket , i put no small value upon myself . i was courted by several very considerable tradesmen , and particularly very warmly by one , a linen-draper , at whose house , after my husband 's death , i took a lodging , his sister being my acquaintance . here i had all the liberty and all the opportunity to be gay and appear in company that i could desire , my landlord 's sister being one of the maddest , gayest things alive , and not so much mistress of her virtue as i thought as first she had been . she brought me into a world of wild company , and even brought home several persons , such as she liked well enough to gratify , to see her pretty widow , so she was pleased to call me , and that name i got in a little time in public . now , as fame and fools make an assembly , i was here wonderfully caressed , had abundance of admirers , and such as called themselves lovers ; but i found not one fair proposal among them all . as for their common design , that i understood too well to be drawn into any more snares of that kind .
the case was altered with me : i had money in my pocket , and had nothing to say to them .
i had been tricked once by that cheat called love , but the game was over ; i was resolved now to be married or nothing , and to be well married or not at all .
i loved the company , indeed , of men of mirth and wit , men of gallantry and figure , and was often entertained with such , as i was also with others ; but i found by just observation , that the brightest men came upon the dullest errand--that is to say , the dullest as to what i aimed at . on the other hand , those who came with the best proposals were the dullest and most disagreeable part of the world .
i was not averse to a tradesman , but then i would have a tradesman , forsooth , that was something of a gentleman too ; that when my husband had a mind to carry me to the court , or to the play , he might become a sword , and look as like a gentleman as another man ; and not be one that had the mark of his apron-strings upon his coat , or the mark of his hat upon his periwig ; that should look as if he was set on to his sword , when his sword was put on to him , and that carried his trade in his countenance .
well , at last i found this amphibious creature , this land-water thing called a gentleman-tradesman ; and as a just plague upon my folly , i was catched in the very snare which , as i might say , i laid for myself .
i said for myself , for i was not trepanned , i confess , but i betrayed myself . this was a draper , too , for though my comrade would have brought me to a bargain with her brother , yet when it came to the point , it was , it seems , for a mistress , not a wife ; and i kept true to this notion , that a woman should never be kept for a mistress that had money to keep herself .
thus my pride , not my principle , my money , not my virtue , kept me honest ; though , as it proved , i found i had much better have been sold by my she-comrade to her brother , than have sold myself as i did to a tradesman that was rake , gentleman , shopkeeper , and beggar , all together .
but i was hurried on ( by my fancy to a gentleman ) to ruin myself in the grossest manner that every woman did ; for my new husband coming to a lump of money at once , fell into such a profusion of expense , that all i had , and all he had before , if he had anything worth mentioning , would not have held it out above one year .
he was very fond of me for about a quarter of a year , and what i got by that was , that i had the pleasure of seeing a great deal of my money spent upon myself , and , as i may say , had some of the spending it too .
'come , my dear , ' says he to me one day , ' shall we go and take a turn into the country for about a week ? '
'ay , my dear , ' says i , ' whither would you go ? '
'i care not whither , ' says he , ' but i have a mind to look like quality for a week . we 'll go to oxford , ' says he .
'how , ' says i , ' shall we go ? i am no horsewoman , and ' tis too far for a coach . '
'too far ! ' says he ; ' no place is too far for a coach-and-six .
if i carry you out , you shall travel like a duchess . '
'hum , ' says i , ' my dear , ' tis a frolic ; but if you have a mind to it , i don 't care . '
well , the time was appointed , we had a rich coach , very good horses , a coachman , postillion , and two footmen in very good liveries ; a gentleman on horseback , and a page with a feather in his hat upon another horse . the servants all called him my lord , and the inn-keepers , you may be sure , did the like , and i was her honour the countess , and thus we traveled to oxford , and a very pleasant journey we had ; for , give him his due , not a beggar alive knew better how to be a lord than my husband .
we saw all the rarities at oxford , talked with two or three fellows of colleges about putting out a young nephew , that was left to his lordship 's care , to the university , and of their being his tutors . we diverted ourselves with bantering several other poor scholars , with hopes of being at least his lordship 's chaplains and putting on a scarf ; and thus having lived like quality indeed , as to expense , we went away for northampton , and , in a word , in about twelve days ' ramble came home again , to the tune of about # 93 expense .
vanity is the perfection of a fop .
my husband had this excellence , that he valued nothing of expense ; and as his history , you may be sure , has very little weight in it , ' tis enough to tell you that in about two years and a quarter he broke , and was not so happy to get over into the mint , but got into a sponging-house , being arrested in an action too heavy from him to give bail to , so he sent for me to come to him .
it was no surprise to me , for i had foreseen some time that all was going to wreck , and had been taking care to reserve something if i could , though it was not much , for myself . but when he sent for me , he behaved much better than i expected , and told me plainly he had played the fool , and suffered himself to be surprised , which he might have prevented ; that now he foresaw he could not stand it , and therefore he would have me go home , and in the night take away everything i had in the house of any value , and secure it ; and after that , he told me that if i could get away one hundred or two hundred pounds in goods out of the shop , i should do it ; ' only , ' says he , ' let me know nothing of it , neither what you take nor whither you carry it ; for as for me , ' says he , ' i am resolved to get out of this house and be gone ; and if you never hear of me more , my dear , ' says he , ' i wish you well ; i am only sorry for the injury i have done you . '
he said some very handsome things to me indeed at parting ; for i told you he was a gentleman , and that was all the benefit i had of his being so ; that he used me very handsomely and with good manners upon all occasions , even to the last , only spent all i had , and left me to rob the creditors for something to subsist on .
however , i did as he bade me , that you may be sure ; and having thus taken my leave of him , i never saw him more , for he found means to break out of the bailiff 's house that night or the next , and go over into france , and for the rest of the creditors scrambled for it as well as they could .
how , i knew not , for i could come at no knowledge of anything , more than this , that he came home about three o 'clock in the morning , caused the rest of his goods to be removed into the mint , and the shop to be shut up ; and having raised what money he could get together , he got over , as i said , to france , from whence i had one or two letters from him , and no more .
i did not see him when he came home , for he having given me such instructions as above , and i having made the best of my time , i had no more business back again at the house , not knowing but i might have been stopped there by the creditors ; for a commission of bankrupt being soon after issued , they might have stopped me by orders from the commissioners .
but my husband , having so dexterously got out of the bailiff 's house by letting himself down in a most desperate manner from almost the top of the house to the top of another building , and leaping from thence , which was almost two storeys , and which was enough indeed to have broken his neck , he came home and got away his goods before the creditors could come to seize ; that is to say , before they could get out the commission , and be ready to send their officers to take possession .
my husband was so civil to me , for still i say he was much of a gentleman , that in the first letter he wrote me from france , he let me know where he had pawned twenty pieces of fine holland for # 30 , which were really worth # 90 , and enclosed me the token and an order for the taking them up , paying the money , which i did , and made in time above # 100 of them , having leisure to cut them and sell them , some and some , to private families , as opportunity offered .
however , with all this , and all that i had secured before , i found , upon casting things up , my case was very much altered , any my fortune much lessened ; for , including the hollands and a parcel of fine muslins , which i carried off before , and some plate , and other things , i found i could hardly muster up # 500 ; and my condition was very odd , for though i had no child ( i had had one by my gentleman draper , but it was buried ) , yet i was a widow bewitched ; i had a husband and no husband , and i could not pretend to marry again , though i knew well enough my husband would never see england any more , if he lived fifty years .
thus , i say , i was limited from marriage , what offer might soever be made me ; and i had not one friend to advise with in the condition i was in , least not one i durst trust the secret of my circumstances to , for if the commissioners were to have been informed where i was , i should have been fetched up and examined upon oath , and all i have saved be taken away from me .
upon these apprehensions , the first thing i did was to go quite out of my knowledge , and go by another name .
this i did effectually , for i went into the mint too , took lodgings in a very private place , dressed up in the habit of a widow , and called myself mrs. flanders .
i had made an acquaintance with a very sober , good sort of a woman , who was a widow too , like me , but in better circumstances . her husband had been a captain of a merchant ship , and having had the misfortune to be cast away coming home on a voyage from the west indies , which would have been very profitable if he had come safe , was so reduced by the loss , that though he had saved his life then , it broke his heart , and killed him afterwards ; and his widow , being pursued by the creditors , was forced to take shelter in the mint .
she soon made things up with the help of friends , and was at liberty again ; and finding that i rather was there to be concealed , than by any particular prosecutions and finding also that i agreed with her , or rather she with me , in a just abhorrence of the place and of the company , she invited to go home with her till i could put myself in some posture of settling in the world to my mind ; withal telling me , that it was ten to one but some good captain of a ship might take a fancy to me , and court me , in that part of the town where she lived .
i accepted her offer , and was with her half a year , and should have been longer , but in that interval what she proposed to me happened to herself , and she married very much to her advantage .
but whose fortune soever was upon the increase , mine seemed to be upon the wane , and i found nothing present , except two or three boatswains , or such fellows , but as for the commanders , they were generally of two sorts : 1 .
such as , having good business , that is to say , a good ship , resolved not to marry but with advantage , that is , with a good fortune ; 2 . such as , being out of employ , wanted a wife to help them to a ship ; i mean ( 1 ) a wife who , having some money , could enable them to hold , as they call it , a good part of a ship themselves , so to encourage owners to come in ; or ( 2 ) a wife who , if she had not money , had friends who were concerned in shipping , and so could help to put the young man into a good ship , which to them is as good as a portion ; and neither of these was my case , so i looked like one that was to lie on hand .
but i come now to my own case , in which there was at this time no little nicety .
the circumstances i was in made the offer of a good husband the most necessary thing in the world to me , but i found soon that to be made cheap and easy was not the way . it soon began to be found that the widow had no fortune , and to say this was to say all that was ill of me , for i began to be dropped in all the discourses of matrimony . being well-bred , handsome , witty , modest , and agreeable ; all which i had allowed to my character--whether justly or no is not the purpose--i say , all these would not do without the dross , which way now become more valuable than virtue itself .
in short , the widow , they said , had no money .
i resolved , therefore , as to the state of my present circumstances , that it was absolutely necessary to change my station , and make a new appearance in some other place where i was not known , and even to pass by another name if i found occasion .
i communicated my thoughts to my intimate friend , the captain 's lady , whom i had so faithfully served in her case with the captain , and who was as ready to serve me in the same kind as i could desire . i made no scruple to lay my circumstances open to her ; my stock was but low , for i had made but about # 540 at the close of my last affair , and i had wasted some of that ; however , i had about # 460 left , a great many very rich clothes , a gold watch , and some jewels , though of no extraordinary value , and about # 30 or # 40 left in linen not disposed of .
my dear and faithful friend , the captain 's wife , was so sensible of the service i had done her in the affair above , that she was not only a steady friend to me , but , knowing my circumstances , she frequently made me presents as money came into her hands , such as fully amounted to a maintenance , so that i spent none of my own ; and at last she made this unhappy proposal to me , viz. that as we had observed , as above , how the men made no scruple to set themselves out as persons meriting a woman of fortune , when they had really no fortune of their own , it was but just to deal with them in their own way and , if it was possible , to deceive the deceiver .
the first step she put me upon was to call her cousin , and to to a relation 's house of hers in the country , where she directed me , and where she brought her husband to visit me ; and calling me cousin , she worked matters so about , that her husband and she together invited me most passionately to come to town and be with them , for they now live in a quite different place from where they were before .
in the next place , she tells her husband that i had at least # 1500 fortune , and that after some of my relations i was like to have a great deal more .
it was enough to tell her husband this ; there needed nothing on my side . i was but to sit still and wait the event , for it presently went all over the neighbourhood that the young widow at captain ---- ' s was a fortune , that she had at least # 1500 , and perhaps a great deal more , and that the captain said so ; and if the captain was asked at any time about me , he made no scruple to affirm it , though he knew not one word of the matter , other than that his wife had told him so ; and in this he thought no harm , for he really believed it to be so , because he had it from his wife : so slender a foundation will those fellows build upon , if they do but think there is a fortune in the game .
with the reputation of this fortune , i presently found myself blessed with admirers enough , and that i had my choice of men , as scarce as they said they were , which , by the way , confirms what i was saying before . this being my case , i , who had a subtle game to play , had nothing now to do but to single out from them all the properest man that might be for my purpose ; that is to say , the man who was most likely to depend upon the hearsay of a fortune , and not inquire too far into the particulars ; and unless i did this i did nothing , for my case would not bear much inquiry .
i picked out my man without much difficulty , by the judgment i made of his way of courting me . i had let him run on with his protestations and oaths that he loved me above all the world ; that if i would make him happy , that was enough ; all which i knew was upon supposition , nay , it was upon a full satisfaction , that i was very rich , though i never told him a word of it myself .
this was my man ; but i was to try him to the bottom , and indeed in that consisted my safety ; for if he baulked , i knew i was undone , as surely as he was undone if he took me ; and if i did not make some scruple about his fortune , it was the way to lead him to raise some about mine ; and first , therefore , i pretended on all occasions to doubt his sincerity , and told him , perhaps he only courted me for my fortune . he stopped my mouth in that part with the thunder of his protestations , as above , but still i pretended to doubt .
one morning he pulls off his diamond ring , and writes upon the glass of the sash in my chamber this line--
'you i love , and you alone . '
i read it , and asked him to lend me his ring , with which i wrote under it , thus--
'and so in love says every one . '
he takes his ring again , and writes another line thus--
'virtue alone is an estate . '
i borrowed it again , and i wrote under it--
'but money 's virtue , gold is fate . '
he coloured as red as fire to see me turn so quick upon him , and in a kind of a rage told me he would conquer me , and writes again thus--
'i scorn your gold , and yet i love . '
i ventured all upon the last cast of poetry , as you 'll see , for i wrote boldly under his last--
'i 'm poor : let 's see how kind you 'll prove . '
this was a sad truth to me ; whether he believed me or no , i could not tell ; i supposed then that he did not .
however , he flew to me , took me in his arms , and , kissing me very eagerly , and with the greatest passion imaginable , he held me fast till he called for a pen and ink , and then told me he could not wait the tedious writing on the glass , but , pulling out a piece of paper , he began and wrote again--
'be mine , with all your poverty . '
i took his pen , and followed him immediately , thus--
'yet secretly you hope i lie . '
he told me that was unkind , because it was not just , and that i put him upon contradicting me , which did not consist with good manners , any more than with his affection ; and therefore , since i had insensibly drawn him into this poetical scribble , he begged i would not oblige him to break it off ; so he writes again--
'let love alone be our debate . '
i wrote again--
'she loves enough that does not hate . '
this he took for a favour , and so laid down the cudgels , that is to say , the pen ; i say , he took if for a favour , and a mighty one it was , if he had known all . however , he took it as i meant it , that is , to let him think i was inclined to go on with him , as indeed i had all the reason in the world to do , for he was the best-humoured , merry sort of a fellow that i ever met with , and i often reflected on myself how doubly criminal it was to deceive such a man ; but that necessity , which pressed me to a settlement suitable to my condition , was my authority for it ; and certainly his affection to me , and the goodness of his temper , however they might argue against using him ill , yet they strongly argued to me that he would better take the disappointment than some fiery-tempered wretch , who might have nothing to recommend him but those passions which would serve only to make a woman miserable all her days .
besides , though i jested with him ( as he supposed it ) so often about my poverty , yet , when he found it to be true , he had foreclosed all manner of objection , seeing , whether he was in jest or in earnest , he had declared he took me without any regard to my portion , and , whether i was in jest or in earnest , i had declared myself to be very poor ; so that , in a word , i had him fast both ways ; and though he might say afterwards he was cheated , yet he could never say that i had cheated him .
he pursued me close after this , and as i saw there was no need to fear losing him , i played the indifferent part with him longer than prudence might otherwise have dictated to me . but i considered how much this caution and indifference would give me the advantage over him , when i should come to be under the necessity of owning my own circumstances to him ; and i managed it the more warily , because i found he inferred from thence , as indeed he ought to do , that i either had the more money or the more judgment , and would not venture at all .
i took the freedom one day , after we had talked pretty close to the subject , to tell him that it was true i had received the compliment of a lover from him , namely , that he would take me without inquiring into my fortune , and i would make him a suitable return in this , viz. that i would make as little inquiry into his as consisted with reason , but i hoped he would allow me to ask a few questions , which he would answer or not as he thought fit ; and that i would not be offended if he did not answer me at all ; one of these questions related to our manner of living , and the place where , because i had heard he had a great plantation in virginia , and that he had talked of going to live there , and i told him i did not care to be transported .
he began from this discourse to let me voluntarily into all his affairs , and to tell me in a frank , open way all his circumstances , by which i found he was very well to pass in the world ; but that great part of his estate consisted of three plantations , which he had in virginia , which brought him in a very good income , generally speaking , to the tune of # 300 , a year , but that if he was to live upon them , would bring him in four times as much . ' very well , ' thought i ; ' you shall carry me thither as soon as you please , though i won 't tell you so beforehand . '
i jested with him extremely about the figure he would make in virginia ; but i found he would do anything i desired , though he did not seem glad to have me undervalue his plantations , so i turned my tale . i told him i had good reason not to go there to live , because if his plantations were worth so much there , i had not a fortune suitable to a gentleman of # 1200 a year , as he said his estate would be .
he replied generously , he did not ask what my fortune was ; he had told me from the beginning he would not , and he would be as good as his word ; but whatever it was , he assured me he would never desire me to go to virginia with him , or go thither himself without me , unless i was perfectly willing , and made it my choice .
all this , you may be sure , was as i wished , and indeed nothing could have happened more perfectly agreeable . i carried it on as far as this with a sort of indifferency that he often wondered at , more than at first , but which was the only support of his courtship ; and i mention it the rather to intimate again to the ladies that nothing but want of courage for such an indifferency makes our sex so cheap , and prepares them to be ill-used as they are ; would they venture the loss of a pretending fop now and then , who carries it high upon the point of his own merit , they would certainly be less slighted , and courted more . had i discovered really and truly what my great fortune was , and that in all i had not full # 500 when he expected # 1500 , yet i had hooked him so fast , and played him so long , that i was satisfied he would have had me in my worst circumstances ; and indeed it was less a surprise to him when he learned the truth than it would have been , because having not the least blame to lay on me , who had carried it with an air of indifference to the last , he would not say one word , except that indeed he thought it had been more , but that if it had been less he did not repent his bargain ; only that he should not be able to maintain me so well as he intended .
in short , we were married , and very happily married on my side , i assure you , as to the man ; for he was the best-humoured man that every woman had , but his circumstances were not so good as i imagined , as , on the other hand , he had not bettered himself by marrying so much as he expected .
when we were married , i was shrewdly put to it to bring him that little stock i had , and to let him see it was no more ; but there was a necessity for it , so i took my opportunity one day when we were alone , to enter into a short dialogue with him about it .
'my dear , ' said i , ' we have been married a fortnight ; is it not time to let you know whether you have got a wife with something or with nothing ? '
'your own time for that , my dear , ' says he ; ' i am satisfied that i have got the wife i love ; i have not troubled you much , ' says he , ' with my inquiry after it . '
'that 's true , ' says i , ' but i have a great difficulty upon me about it , which i scarce know how to manage . '
'what 's that , m ' dear ? ' says he .
'why , ' says i , " tis a little hard upon me , and ' tis harder upon you . i am told that captain ---- ' ( meaning my friend 's husband ) ' has told you i had a great deal more money than i ever pretended to have , and i am sure i never employed him to do so . '
'well , ' says he , ' captain ---- may have told me so , but what then ?
if you have not so much , that may lie at his door , but you never told me what you had , so i have no reason to blame you if you have nothing at all . '
'that 's is so just , ' said i , ' and so generous , that it makes my having but a little a double affliction to me . '
'the less you have , my dear , ' says he , ' the worse for us both ; but i hope your affliction you speak of is not caused for fear i should be unkind to you , for want of a portion . no , no , if you have nothing , tell me plainly , and at once ; i may perhaps tell the captain he has cheated me , but i can never say you have cheated me , for did you not give it under your hand that you were poor ? and so i ought to expect you to be . '
'well , ' said i , ' my dear , i am glad i have not been concerned in deceiving you before marriage .
if i deceive you since , ' tis ne 'er the worse ; that i am poor is too true , but not so poor as to have nothing neither ' ; so i pulled out some bank bills , and gave him about # 160 .
'there 's something , my dear , ' said i , ' and not quite all neither . '
i had brought him so near to expecting nothing , by what i had said before , that the money , though the sum was small in itself , was doubly welcome to him ; he owned it was more than he looked for , and that he did not question by my discourse to him , but that my fine clothes , gold watch , and a diamond ring or two , had been all my fortune .
i let him please himself with that # 160 two or three days , and then , having been abroad that day , and as if i had been to fetch it , i brought him # 100 more home in gold , and told him there was a little more portion for him ; and , in short , in about a week more i brought him # 180 more , and about # 60 in linen , which i made him believe i had been obliged to take with the # 100 which i gave him in gold , as a composition for a debt of # 600 , being little more than five shillings in the pound , and overvalued too .
'and now , my dear , ' says i to him , ' i am very sorry to tell you , that there is all , and that i have given you my whole fortune . '
i added , that if the person who had my # 600 had not abused me , i had been worth # 1000 to him , but that as it was , i had been faithful to him , and reserved nothing to myself , but if it had been more he should have had it .
he was so obliged by the manner , and so pleased with the sum , for he had been in a terrible fright lest it had been nothing at all , that he accepted it very thankfully .
and thus i got over the fraud of passing for a fortune without money , and cheating a man into marrying me on pretence of a fortune ; which , by the way , i take to be one of the most dangerous steps a woman can take , and in which she runs the most hazard of being ill-used afterwards .
my husband , to give him his due , was a man of infinite good nature , but he was no fool ; and finding his income not suited to the manner of living which he had intended , if i had brought him what he expected , and being under a disappointment in his return of his plantations in virginia , he discovered many times his inclination of going over to virginia , to live upon his own ; and often would be magnifying the way of living there , how cheap , how plentiful , how pleasant , and the like .
i began presently to understand this meaning , and i took him up very plainly one morning , and told him that i did so ; that i found his estate turned to no account at this distance , compared to what it would do if he lived upon the spot , and that i found he had a mind to go and live there ; and i added , that i was sensible he had been disappointed in a wife , and that finding his expectations not answered that way , i could do no less , to make him amends , than tell him that i was very willing to go over to virginia with him and live there .
he said a thousand kind things to me upon the subject of my making such a proposal to him .
he told me , that however he was disappointed in his expectations of a fortune , he was not disappointed in a wife , and that i was all to him that a wife could be , and he was more than satisfied on the whole when the particulars were put together , but that this offer was so kind , that it was more than he could express .
to bring the story short , we agreed to go .
he told me that he had a very good house there , that it was well furnished , that his mother was alive and lived in it , and one sister , which was all the relations he had ; that as soon as he came there , his mother would remove to another house , which was her own for life , and his after her decease ; so that i should have all the house to myself ; and i found all this to be exactly as he had said .
to make this part of the story short , we put on board the ship which we went in , a large quantity of good furniture for our house , with stores of linen and other necessaries , and a good cargo for sale , and away we went .
to give an account of the manner of our voyage , which was long and full of dangers , is out of my way ; i kept no journal , neither did my husband . all that i can say is , that after a terrible passage , frighted twice with dreadful storms , and once with what was still more terrible , i mean a pirate who came on board and took away almost all our provisions ; and which would have been beyond all to me , they had once taken my husband to go along with them , but by entreaties were prevailed with to leave him ; --i say , after all these terrible things , we arrived in york river in virginia , and coming to our plantation , we were received with all the demonstrations of tenderness and affection , by my husband 's mother , that were possible to be expressed .
we lived here all together , my mother-in-law , at my entreaty , continuing in the house , for she was too kind a mother to be parted with ; my husband likewise continued the same as at first , and i thought myself the happiest creature alive , when an odd and surprising event put an end to all that felicity in a moment , and rendered my condition the most uncomfortable , if not the most miserable , in the world .
my mother was a mighty cheerful , good-humoured old woman --i may call her old woman , for her son was above thirty ; i say she was very pleasant , good company , and used to entertain me , in particular , with abundance of stories to divert me , as well of the country we were in as of the people .
among the rest , she often told me how the greatest part of the inhabitants of the colony came thither in very indifferent circumstances from england ; that , generally speaking , they were of two sorts ; either , first , such as were brought over by masters of ships to be sold as servants . ' such as we call them , my dear , ' says she , ' but they are more properly called slaves . '
or , secondly , such as are transported from newgate and other prisons , after having been found guilty of felony and other crimes punishable with death . ' when they come here , ' says she , ' we make no difference ; the planters buy them , and they work together in the field till their time is out . when ' tis expired , ' said she , ' they have encouragement given them to plant for themselves ; for they have a certain number of acres of land allotted them by the country , and they go to work to clear and cure the land , and then to plant it with tobacco and corn for their own use ; and as the tradesmen and merchants will trust them with tools and clothes and other necessaries , upon the credit of their crop before it is grown , so they again plant every year a little more than the year before , and so buy whatever they want with the crop that is before them .
'hence , child , ' says she , ' man a newgate-bird becomes a great man , and we have , ' continued she , ' several justices of the peace , officers of the trained bands , and magistrates of the towns they live in , that have been burnt in the hand . '
she was going on with that part of the story , when her own part in it interrupted her , and with a great deal of good-humoured confidence she told me she was one of the second sort of inhabitants herself ; that she came away openly , having ventured too far in a particular case , so that she was become a criminal .
'and here 's the mark of it , child , ' says she ; and , pulling off her glove , ' look ye here , ' says she , turning up the palm of her hand , and showed me a very fine white arm and hand , but branded in the inside of the hand , as in such cases it must be .
this story was very moving to me , but my mother , smiling , said , ' you need not think a thing strange , daughter , for as i told you , some of the best men in this country are burnt in the hand , and they are not ashamed to own it .
there 's major ---- , ' says she , ' he was an eminent pickpocket ; there 's justice ba----r , was a shoplifter , and both of them were burnt in the hand ; and i could name you several such as they are . ' we had frequent discourses of this kind , and abundance of instances she gave me of the like .
after some time , as she was telling some stories of one that was transported but a few weeks ago , i began in an intimate kind of way to ask her to tell me something of her own story , which she did with the utmost plainness and sincerity ; how she had fallen into very ill company in london in her young days , occasioned by her mother sending her frequently to carry victuals and other relief to a kinswoman of hers who was a prisoner in newgate , and who lay in a miserable starving condition , was afterwards condemned to be hanged , but having got respite by pleading her belly , dies afterwards in the prison .
here my mother-in-law ran out in a long account of the wicked practices in that dreadful place , and how it ruined more young people that all the town besides .
'and child , ' says my mother , ' perhaps you may know little of it , or , it may be , have heard nothing about it ; but depend upon it , ' says she , ' we all know here that there are more thieves and rogues made by that one prison of newgate than by all the clubs and societies of villains in the nation ; ' tis that cursed place , ' says my mother , ' that half peopled this colony . '
here she went on with her own story so long , and in so particular a manner , that i began to be very uneasy ; but coming to one particular that required telling her name , i thought i should have sunk down in the place . she perceived i was out of order , and asked me if i was not well , and what ailed me .
i told her i was so affected with the melancholy story she had told , and the terrible things she had gone through , that it had overcome me , and i begged of her to talk no more of it .
'why , my dear , ' says she very kindly , ' what need these things trouble you ?
these passages were long before your time , and they give me no trouble at all now ; nay , i look back on them with a particular satisfaction , as they have been a means to bring me to this place . '
then she went on to tell me how she very luckily fell into a good family , where , behaving herself well , and her mistress dying , her master married her , by whom she had my husband and his sister , and that by her diligence and good management after her husband 's death , she had improved the plantations to such a degree as they then were , so that most of the estate was of her getting , not her husband 's , for she had been a widow upwards of sixteen years .
i heard this part of they story with very little attention , because i wanted much to retire and give vent to my passions , which i did soon after ; and let any one judge what must be the anguish of my mind , when i came to reflect that this was certainly no more or less than my own mother , and i had now had two children , and was big with another by my own brother , and lay with him still every night .
i was now the most unhappy of all women in the world .
oh ! had the story never been told me , all had been well ; it had been no crime to have lain with my husband , since as to his being my relation i had known nothing of it .
i had now such a load on my mind that it kept me perpetually waking ; to reveal it , which would have been some ease to me , i could not find would be to any purpose , and yet to conceal it would be next to impossible ; nay , i did not doubt but i should talk of it in my sleep , and tell my husband of it whether i would or no . if i discovered it , the least thing i could expect was to lose my husband , for he was too nice and too honest a man to have continued my husband after he had known i had been his sister ; so that i was perplexed to the last degree .
i leave it to any man to judge what difficulties presented to my view . i was away from my native country , at a distance prodigious , and the return to me unpassable .
i lived very well , but in a circumstance insufferable in itself . if i had discovered myself to my mother , it might be difficult to convince her of the particulars , and i had no way to prove them . on the other hand , if she had questioned or doubted me , i had been undone , for the bare suggestion would have immediately separated me from my husband , without gaining my mother or him , who would have been neither a husband nor a brother ; so that between the surprise on one hand , and the uncertainty on the other , i had been sure to be undone .
in the meantime , as i was but too sure of the fact , i lived therefore in open avowed incest and whoredom , and all under the appearance of an honest wife ; and though i was not much touched with the crime of it , yet the action had something in it shocking to nature , and made my husband , as he thought himself , even nauseous to me .
however , upon the most sedate consideration , i resolved that it was absolutely necessary to conceal it all and not make the least discovery of it either to mother or husband ; and thus i lived with the greatest pressure imaginable for three years more , but had no more children .
during this time my mother used to be frequently telling me old stories of her former adventures , which , however , were no ways pleasant to me ; for by it , though she did not tell it me in plain terms , yet i could easily understand , joined with what i had heard myself , of my first tutors , that in her younger days she had been both whore and thief ; but i verily believed she had lived to repent sincerely of both , and that she was then a very pious , sober , and religious woman .
well , let her life have been what it would then , it was certain that my life was very uneasy to me ; for i lived , as i have said , but in the worst sort of whoredom , and as i could expect no good of it , so really no good issue came of it , and all my seeming prosperity wore off , and ended in misery and destruction .
it was some time , indeed , before it came to this , for , but i know not by what ill fate guided , everything went wrong with us afterwards , and that which was worse , my husband grew strangely altered , forward , jealous , and unkind , and i was as impatient of bearing his carriage , as the carriage was unreasonable and unjust .
these things proceeded so far , that we came at last to be in such ill terms with one another , that i claimed a promise of him , which he entered willingly into with me when i consented to come from england with him , viz. that if i found the country not to agree with me , or that i did not like to live there , i should come away to england again when i pleased , giving him a year 's warning to settle his affairs .
i say , i now claimed this promise of him , and i must confess i did it not in the most obliging terms that could be in the world neither ; but i insisted that he treated me ill , that i was remote from my friends , and could do myself no justice , and that he was jealous without cause , my conversation having been unblamable , and he having no pretense for it , and that to remove to england would take away all occasion from him .
i insisted so peremptorily upon it , that he could not avoid coming to a point , either to keep his word with me or to break it ; and this , notwithstanding he used all the skill he was master of , and employed his mother and other agents to prevail with me to alter my resolutions ; indeed , the bottom of the thing lay at my heart , and that made all his endeavours fruitless , for my heart was alienated from him as a husband .
i loathed the thoughts of bedding with him , and used a thousand pretenses of illness and humour to prevent his touching me , fearing nothing more than to be with child by him , which to be sure would have prevented , or at least delayed , my going over to england .
however , at last i put him so out of humour , that he took up a rash and fatal resolution ; in short , i should not go to england ; and though he had promised me , yet it was an unreasonable thing for me to desire it ; that it would be ruinous to his affairs , would unhinge his whole family , and be next to an undoing him in the world ; that therefore i ought not to desire it of him , and that no wife in the world that valued her family and her husband 's prosperity would insist upon such a thing .
this plunged me again , for when i considered the thing calmly , and took my husband as he really was , a diligent , careful man in the main work of laying up an estate for his children , and that he knew nothing of the dreadful circumstances that he was in , i could not but confess to myself that my proposal was very unreasonable , and what no wife that had the good of her family at heart would have desired .
but my discontents were of another nature ; i looked upon him no longer as a husband , but as a near relation , the son of my own mother , and i resolved somehow or other to be clear of him , but which way i did not know , nor did it seem possible .
it is said by the ill-natured world , of our sex , that if we are set on a thing , it is impossible to turn us from our resolutions ; in short , i never ceased poring upon the means to bring to pass my voyage , and came that length with my husband at last , as to propose going without him .
this provoked him to the last degree , and he called me not only an unkind wife , but an unnatural mother , and asked me how i could entertain such a thought without horror , as that of leaving my two children ( for one was dead ) without a mother , and to be brought up by strangers , and never to see them more .
it was true , had things been right , i should not have done it , but now it was my real desire never to see them , or him either , any more ; and as to the charge of unnatural , i could easily answer it to myself , while i knew that the whole relation was unnatural in the highest degree in the world .
however , it was plain there was no bringing my husband to anything ; he would neither go with me nor let me go without him , and it was quite out of my power to stir without his consent , as any one that knows the constitution of the country i was in , knows very well .
we had many family quarrels about it , and they began in time to grow up to a dangerous height ; for as i was quite estranged form my husband ( as he was called ) in affection , so i took no heed to my words , but sometimes gave him language that was provoking ; and , in short , strove all i could to bring him to a parting with me , which was what above all things in the world i desired most .
he took my carriage very ill , and indeed he might well do so , for at last i refused to bed with him , and carrying on the breach upon all occasions to extremity , he told me once he thought i was mad , and if i did not alter my conduct , he would put me under cure ; that is to say , into a madhouse .
i told him he should find i was far enough from mad , and that it was not in his power , or any other villain 's , to murder me . i confess at the same time i was heartily frighted at his thoughts of putting me into a madhouse , which would at once have destroyed all the possibility of breaking the truth out , whatever the occasion might be ; for that then no one would have given credit to a word of it .
this therefore brought me to a resolution , whatever came of it , to lay open my whole case ; but which way to do it , or to whom , was an inextricable difficulty , and took me many months to resolve . in the meantime , another quarrel with my husband happened , which came up to such a mad extreme as almost pushed me on to tell it him all to his face ; but though i kept it in so as not to come to the particulars , i spoke so much as put him into the utmost confusion , and in the end brought out the whole story .
he began with a calm expostulation upon my being so resolute to go to england ; i defended it , and one hard word bringing on another , as is usual in all family strife , he told me i did not treat him as if he was my husband , or talk of my children as if i was a mother ; and , in short , that i did not deserve to be used as a wife ; that he had used all the fair means possible with me ; that he had argued with all the kindness and calmness that a husband or a christian ought to do , and that i made him such a vile return , that i treated him rather like a dog than a man , and rather like the most contemptible stranger than a husband ; that he was very loth to use violence with me , but that , in short , he saw a necessity of it now , and that for the future he should be obliged to take such measures as should reduce me to my duty .
my blood was now fired to the utmost , though i knew what he had said was very true , and nothing could appear more provoked .
i told him , for his fair means and his foul , they were equally contemned by me ; that for my going to england , i was resolved on it , come what would ; and that as to treating him not like a husband , and not showing myself a mother to my children , there might be something more in it than he understood at present ; but , for his further consideration , i thought fit to tell him thus much , that he neither was my lawful husband , nor they lawful children , and that i had reason to regard neither of them more than i did .
i confess i was moved to pity him when i spoke it , for he turned pale as death , and stood mute as one thunderstruck , and once or twice i thought he would have fainted ; in short , it put him in a fit something like an apoplex ; he trembled , a sweat or dew ran off his face , and yet he was cold as a clod , so that i was forced to run and fetch something for him to keep life in him . when he recovered of that , he grew sick and vomited , and in a little after was put to bed , and the next morning was , as he had been indeed all night , in a violent fever .
however , it went off again , and he recovered , though but slowly , and when he came to be a little better , he told me i had given him a mortal wound with my tongue , and he had only one thing to ask before he desired an explanation .
i interrupted him , and told him i was sorry i had gone so far , since i saw what disorder it put him into , but i desired him not to talk to me of explanations , for that would but make things worse .
this heightened his impatience , and , indeed , perplexed him beyond all bearing ; for now he began to suspect that there was some mystery yet unfolded , but could not make the least guess at the real particulars of it ; all that ran in his brain was , that i had another husband alive , which i could not say in fact might not be true , but i assured him , however , there was not the least of that in it ; and indeed , as to my other husband , he was effectually dead in law to me , and had told me i should look on him as such , so i had not the least uneasiness on that score .
but now i found the thing too far gone to conceal it much longer , and my husband himself gave me an opportunity to ease myself of the secret , much to my satisfaction . he had laboured with me three or four weeks , but to no purpose , only to tell him whether i had spoken these words only as the effect of my passion , to put him in a passion , or whether there was anything of truth in the bottom of them .
but i continued inflexible , and would explain nothing , unless he would first consent to my going to england , which he would never do , he said , while he lived ; on the other hand , i said it was in my power to make him willing when i pleased--nay , to make him entreat me to go ; and this increased his curiosity , and made him importunate to the highest degree , but it was all to no purpose .
at length he tells all this story to his mother , and sets her upon me to get the main secret out of me , and she used her utmost skill with me indeed ; but i put her to a full stop at once by telling her that the reason and mystery of the whole matter lay in herself , and that it was my respect to her that had made me conceal it ; and that , in short , i could go no farther , and therefore conjured her not to insist upon it .
she was struck dumb at this suggestion , and could not tell what to say or to think ; but , laying aside the supposition as a policy of mine , continued her importunity on account of her son , and , if possible , to make up the breach between us two .
as to that , i told her that it was indeed a good design in her , but that it was impossible to be done ; and that if i should reveal to her the truth of what she desired , she would grant it to be impossible , and cease to desire it .
at last i seemed to be prevailed on by her importunity , and told her i dared trust her with a secret of the greatest importance , and she would soon see that this was so , and that i would consent to lodge it in her breast , if she would engage solemnly not to acquaint her son with it without my consent .
she was long in promising this part , but rather than not come at the main secret , she agreed to that too , and after a great many other preliminaries , i began , and told her the whole story .
first i told her how much she was concerned in all the unhappy breach which had happened between her son and me , by telling me her own story and her london name ; and that the surprise she saw i was in was upon that occasion . the i told her my own story , and my name , and assured her , by such other tokens as she could not deny , that i was no other , nor more or less , than her own child , her daughter , born of her body in newgate ; the same that had saved her from the gallows by being in her belly , and the same that she left in such-and-such hands when she was transported .
it is impossible to express the astonishment she was in ; she was not inclined to believe the story , or to remember the particulars , for she immediately foresaw the confusion that must follow in the family upon it . but everything concurred so exactly with the stories she had told me of herself , and which , if she had not told me , she would perhaps have been content to have denied , that she had stopped her own mouth , and she had nothing to do but to take me about the neck and kiss me , and cry most vehemently over me , without speaking one word for a long time together .
at last she broke out : ' unhappy child ! ' says she , ' what miserable chance could bring thee hither ? and in the arms of my own son , too !
married to thy own brother ! three children , and two alive , all of the same flesh and blood ! my son and my daughter lying together as husband and wife ! all confusion and distraction for ever ! miserable family ! what will become of us ? what is to be said ?
what is to be done ? ' and thus she ran on for a great while ; nor had i any power to speak , or if i had , did i know what to say , for every word wounded me to the soul .
with this kind of amazement on our thoughts we parted for the first time , though my mother was more surprised than i was , because it was more news to her than to me . however , she promised again to me at parting , that she would say nothing of it to her son , till we had talked of it again .
it was not long , you may be sure , before we had a second conference upon the same subject ; when , as if she had been willing to forget the story she had told me of herself , or to suppose that i had forgot some of the particulars , she began to tell them with alterations and omissions ; but i refreshed her memory and set her to rights in many things which i supposed she had forgot , and then came in so opportunely with the whole history , that it was impossible for her to go from it ; and then she fell into her rhapsodies again , and exclamations at the severity of her misfortunes .
when these things were a little over with her , we fell into a close debate about what should be first done before we gave an account of the matter to my husband .
but to what purpose could be all our consultations ?
we could neither of us see our way through it , nor see how it could be safe to open such a scene to him . it was impossible to make any judgment , or give any guess at what temper he would receive it in , or what measures he would take upon it ; and if he should have so little government of himself as to make it public , we easily foresaw that it would be the ruin of the whole family , and expose my mother and me to the last degree ; and if at last he should take the advantage the law would give him , he might put me away with disdain and leave me to sue for the little portion that i had , and perhaps waste it all in the suit , and then be a beggar ; the children would be ruined too , having no legal claim to any of his effects ; and thus i should see him , perhaps , in the arms of another wife in a few months , and be myself the most miserable creature alive .
my mother was as sensible of this as i ; and , upon the whole , we knew not what to do .
after some time we came to more sober resolutions , but then it was with this misfortune too , that my mother 's opinion and mine were quite different from one another , and indeed inconsistent with one another ; for my mother 's opinion was , that i should bury the whole thing entirely , and continue to live with him as my husband till some other event should make the discovery of it more convenient ; and that in the meantime she would endeavour to reconcile us together again , and restore our mutual comfort and family peace ; that we might lie as we used to do together , and so let the whole matter remain a secret as close as death . ' for , child , ' says she , ' we are both undone if it comes out . '
to encourage me to this , she promised to make me easy in my circumstances , as far as she was able , and to leave me what she could at her death , secured for me separately from my husband ; so that if it should come out afterwards , i should not be left destitute , but be able to stand on my own feet and procure justice from him .
this proposal did not agree at all with my judgment of the thing , though it was very fair and kind in my mother ; but my thoughts ran quite another way .
as to keeping the thing in our own breasts , and letting it all remain as it was , i told her it was impossible ; and i asked her how she could think i could bear the thoughts of lying with my own brother .
in the next place , i told her that her being alive was the only support of the discovery , and that while she owned me for her child , and saw reason to be satisfied that i was so , nobody else would doubt it ; but that if she should die before the discovery , i should be taken for an impudent creature that had forged such a thing to go away from my husband , or should be counted crazed and distracted .
then i told her how he had threatened already to put me into a madhouse , and what concern i had been in about it , and how that was the thing that drove me to the necessity of discovering it to her as i had done .
from all which i told her , that i had , on the most serious reflections i was able to make in the case , come to this resolution , which i hoped she would like , as a medium between both , viz. that she should use her endeavours with her son to give me leave to go to england , as i had desired , and to furnish me with a sufficient sum of money , either in goods along with me , or in bills for my support there , all along suggesting that he might one time or other think it proper to come over to me .
that when i was gone , she should then , in cold blood , and after first obliging him in the solemnest manner possible to secrecy , discover the case to him , doing it gradually , and as her own discretion should guide her , so that he might not be surprised with it , and fly out into any passions and excesses on my account , or on hers ; and that she should concern herself to prevent his slighting the children , or marrying again , unless he had a certain account of my being dead .
this was my scheme , and my reasons were good ; i was really alienated from him in the consequences of these things ; indeed , i mortally hated him as a husband , and it was impossible to remove that riveted aversion i had to him . at the same time , it being an unlawful , incestuous living , added to that aversion , and though i had no great concern about it in point of conscience , yet everything added to make cohabiting with him the most nauseous thing to me in the world ; and i think verily it was come to such a height , that i could almost as willingly have embraced a dog as have let him offer anything of that kind to me , for which reason i could not bear the thoughts of coming between the sheets with him . i cannot say that i was right in point of policy in carrying it such a length , while at the same time i did not resolve to discover the thing to him ; but i am giving an account of what was , not of what ought or ought not to be .
in their directly opposite opinion to one another my mother and i continued a long time , and it was impossible to reconcile our judgments ; many disputes we had about it , but we could never either of us yield our own , or bring over the other .
i insisted on my aversion to lying with my own brother , and she insisted upon its being impossible to bring him to consent to my going from him to england ; and in this uncertainty we continued , not differing so as to quarrel , or anything like it , but so as not to be able to resolve what we should do to make up that terrible breach that was before us . at last i resolved on a desperate course , and told my mother my resolution , viz. that , in short , i would tell him of it myself .
my mother was frighted to the last degree at the very thoughts of it ; but i bid her be easy , told her i would do it gradually and softly , and with all the art and good-humour i was mistress of , and time it also as well as i could , taking him in good-humour too .
i told her i did not question but , if i could be hypocrite enough to feign more affection to him than i really had , i should succeed in all my design , and we might part by consent , and with a good agreement , for i might live him well enough for a brother , though i could not for a husband .
all this while he lay at my mother to find out , if possible , what was the meaning of that dreadful expression of mine , as he called it , which i mentioned before : namely , that i was not his lawful wife , nor my children his legal children .
my mother put him off , told him she could bring me to no explanations , but found there was something that disturbed me very much , and she hoped she should get it out of me in time , and in the meantime recommended to him earnestly to use me more tenderly , and win me with his usual good carriage ; told him of his terrifying and affrighting me with his threats of sending me to a madhouse , and the like , and advised him not to make a woman desperate on any account whatever .
he promised her to soften his behaviour , and bid her assure me that he loved me as well as ever , and that he had so such design as that of sending me to a madhouse , whatever he might say in his passion ; also he desired my mother to use the same persuasions to me too , that our affections might be renewed , and we might lie together in a good understanding as we used to do .
i found the effects of this treaty presently . my husband 's conduct was immediately altered , and he was quite another man to me ; nothing could be kinder and more obliging than he was to me upon all occasions ; and i could do no less than make some return to it , which i did as well as i could , but it was but in an awkward manner at best , for nothing was more frightful to me than his caresses , and the apprehensions of being with child again by him was ready to throw me into fits ; and this made me see that there was an absolute necessity of breaking the case to him without any more delay , which , however , i did with all the caution and reserve imaginable .
he had continued his altered carriage to me near a month , and we began to live a new kind of life with one another ; and could i have satisfied myself to have gone on with it , i believe it might have continued as long as we had continued alive together .
one evening , as we were sitting and talking very friendly together under a little awning , which served as an arbour at the entrance from our house into the garden , he was in a very pleasant , agreeable humour , and said abundance of kind things to me relating to the pleasure of our present good agreement , and the disorders of our past breach , and what a satisfaction it was to him that we had room to hope we should never have any more of it .
i fetched a deep sigh , and told him there was nobody in the world could be more delighted than i was in the good agreement we had always kept up , or more afflicted with the breach of it , and should be so still ; but i was sorry to tell him that there was an unhappy circumstance in our case , which lay too close to my heart , and which i knew not how to break to him , that rendered my part of it very miserable , and took from me all the comfort of the rest .
he importuned me to tell him what it was . i told him i could not tell how to do it ; that while it was concealed from him i alone was unhappy , but if he knew it also , we should be both so ; and that , therefore , to keep him in the dark about it was the kindest thing that i could do , and it was on that account alone that i kept a secret from him , the very keeping of which , i thought , would first or last be my destruction .
it is impossible to express his surprise at this relation , and the double importunity which he used with me to discover it to him .
he told me i could not be called kind to him , nay , i could not be faithful to him if i concealed it from him .
i told him i thought so too , and yet i could not do it . he went back to what i had said before to him , and told me he hoped it did not relate to what i had said in my passion , and that he had resolved to forget all that as the effect of a rash , provoked spirit .
i told him i wished i could forget it all too , but that it was not to be done , the impression was too deep , and i could not do it : it was impossible .
he then told me he was resolved not to differ with me in anything , and that therefore he would importune me no more about it , resolving to acquiesce in whatever i did or said ; only begged i should then agree , that whatever it was , it should no more interrupt our quiet and our mutual kindness .
this was the most provoking thing he could have said to me , for i really wanted his further importunities , that i might be prevailed with to bring out that which indeed it was like death to me to conceal ; so i answered him plainly that i could not say i was glad not to be importuned , thought i could not tell how to comply .
'but come , my dear , ' said i , ' what conditions will you make with me upon the opening this affair to you ? '
'any conditions in the world , ' said he , ' that you can in reason desire of me . '
'well , ' said i , ' come , give it me under your hand , that if you do not find i am in any fault , or that i am willingly concerned in the causes of the misfortune that is to follow , you will not blame me , use me the worse , do my any injury , or make me be the sufferer for that which is not my fault . '
'that , ' says he , ' is the most reasonable demand in the world : not to blame you for that which is not your fault .
give me a pen and ink , ' says he ; so i ran in and fetched a pen , ink , and paper , and he wrote the condition down in the very words i had proposed it , and signed it with his name .
'well , ' says he , ' what is next , my dear ? '
'why , ' says i , ' the next is , that you will not blame me for not discovering the secret of it to you before i knew it . '
'very just again , ' says he ; ' with all my heart ' ; so he wrote down that also , and signed it .
'well , my dear , ' says i , ' then i have but one condition more to make with you , and that is , that as there is nobody concerned in it but you and i , you shall not discover it to any person in the world , except your own mother ; and that in all the measures you shall take upon the discovery , as i am equally concerned in it with you , though as innocent as yourself , you shall do nothing in a passion , nothing to my prejudice or to your mother 's prejudice , without my knowledge and consent . '
this a little amazed him , and he wrote down the words distinctly , but read them over and over before he signed them , hesitating at them several times , and repeating them : ' my mother 's prejudice ! and your prejudice !
what mysterious thing can this be ? ' however , at last he signed it .
'well , says i , ' my dear , i 'll ask you no more under your hand ; but as you are to hear the most unexpected and surprising thing that perhaps ever befell any family in the world , i beg you to promise me you will receive it with composure and a presence of mind suitable to a man of sense . '
'i 'll do my utmost , ' says he , ' upon condition you will keep me no longer in suspense , for you terrify me with all these preliminaries . '
'well , then , ' says i , ' it is this : as i told you before in a heat , that i was not your lawful wife , and that our children were not legal children , so i must let you know now in calmness and in kindness , but with affliction enough , that i am your own sister , and you my own brother , and that we are both the children of our mother now alive , and in the house , who is convinced of the truth of it , in a manner not to be denied or contradicted . '
i saw him turn pale and look wild ; and i said , ' now remember your promise , and receive it with presence of mind ; for who could have said more to prepare you for it than i have done ? '
however , i called a servant , and got him a little glass of rum ( which is the usual dram of that country ) , for he was just fainting away .
when he was a little recovered , i said to him , ' this story , you may be sure , requires a long explanation , and therefore , have patience and compose your mind to hear it out , and i 'll make it as short as i can ' ; and with this , i told him what i thought was needful of the fact , and particularly how my mother came to discover it to me , as above .
'and now , my dear , ' says i , ' you will see reason for my capitulations , and that i neither have been the cause of this matter , nor could be so , and that i could know nothing of it before now . '
'i am fully satisfied of that , ' says he , ' but ' tis a dreadful surprise to me ; however , i know a remedy for it all , and a remedy that shall put an end to your difficulties , without your going to england . '
'that would be strange , ' said i , ' as all the rest . '
'no , no , ' says he , ' i 'll make it easy ; there 's nobody in the way of it but myself . '
he looked a little disordered when he said this , but i did not apprehend anything from it at that time , believing , as it used to be said , that they who do those things never talk of them , or that they who talk of such things never do them .
but things were not come to their height with him , and i observed he became pensive and melancholy ; and in a word , as i thought , a little distempered in his head .
i endeavoured to talk him into temper , and to reason him into a kind of scheme for our government in the affair , and sometimes he would be well , and talk with some courage about it ; but the weight of it lay too heavy upon his thoughts , and , in short , it went so far that he made attempts upon himself , and in one of them had actually strangled himself and had not his mother come into the room in the very moment , he had died ; but with the help of a negro servant she cut him down and recovered him . things were now come to a lamentable height in the family .
in short , by an unwearied importunity , my husband , who was apparently decaying , as i observed , was at last prevailed with ; and so my own fate pushing me on , the way was made clear for me , and my mother concurring , i obtained a very good cargo for my coming to england .
when i parted with my brother ( for such i am now to call him ) , we agreed that after i arrived he should pretend to have an account that i was dead in england , and so might marry again when he would . he promised , and engaged to me to correspond with me as a sister , and to assist and support me as long as i lived ; and that if he died before me , he would leave sufficient to his mother to take care of me still , in the name of a sister , and he was in some respects careful of me , when he heard of me ; but it was so oddly managed that i felt the disappointments very sensibly afterwards , as you shall hear in its time .
i came away for england in the month of august , after i had been eight years in that country ; and now a new scene of misfortunes attended me , which perhaps few women have gone through the life of .
we had an indifferent good voyage till we came just upon the coast of england , and where we arrived in two-and-thirty days , but were then ruffled with two or three storms , one of which drove us away to the coast of ireland , and we put in at kinsdale .
we remained there about thirteen days , got some refreshment on shore , and put to sea again , though we met with very bad weather again , in which the ship sprung her mainmast , as they called it , for i knew not what they meant . but we got at last into milford haven , in wales , where , though it was remote from our port , yet having my foot safe upon the firm ground of my native country , the isle of britain , i resolved to venture it no more upon the waters , which had been so terrible to me ; so getting my clothes and money on shore , with my bills of loading and other papers , i resolved to come for london , and leave the ship to get to her port as she could ; the port whither she was bound was to bristol , where my brother 's chief correspondent lived .
i got to london in about three weeks , where i heard a little while after that the ship was arrived in bristol , but at the same time had the misfortune to know that by the violent weather she had been in , and the breaking of her mainmast , she had great damage on board , and that a great part of her cargo was spoiled . i had now a new scene of life upon my hands , and a dreadful appearance it had .
i was come away with a kind of final farewell . what i brought with me was indeed considerable , had it come safe , and by the help of it , i might have married again tolerably well ; but as it was , i was reduced to between two or three hundred pounds in the whole , and this without any hope of recruit .
i was entirely without friends , nay , even so much as without acquaintance , for i found it was absolutely necessary not to revive former acquaintances ; and as for my subtle friend that set me up formerly for a fortune , she was dead , and her husband also ; as i was informed , upon sending a person unknown to inquire .
the looking after my cargo of goods soon after obliged me to take a journey to bristol , and during my attendance upon that affair i took the diversion of going to the bath , for as i was still far from being old , so my humour , which was always gay , continued so to an extreme ; and being now , as it were , a woman of fortune though i was a woman without a fortune , i expected something or other might happen in my way that might mend my circumstances , as had been my case before .
the bath is a place of gallantry enough ; expensive , and full of snares . i went thither , indeed , in the view of taking anything that might offer , but i must do myself justice , as to protest i knew nothing amiss ; i meant nothing but in an honest way , nor had i any thoughts about me at first that looked the way which afterwards i suffered them to be guided .
here i stayed the whole latter season , as it is called there , and contracted some unhappy acquaintances , which rather prompted the follies i fell afterwards into than fortified me against them .
i lived pleasantly enough , kept good company , that is to say , gay , fine company ; but had the discouragement to find this way of living sunk me exceedingly , and that as i had no settled income , so spending upon the main stock was but a certain kind of bleeding to death ; and this gave me many sad reflections in the interval of my other thoughts .
however , i shook them off , and still flattered myself that something or other might offer for my advantage .
but i was in the wrong place for it . i was not now at redriff , where , if i had set myself tolerably up , some honest sea captain or other might have talked with me upon the honourable terms of matrimony ; but i was at the bath , where men find a mistress sometimes , but very rarely look for a wife ; and consequently all the particular acquaintances a woman can expect to make there must have some tendency that way .
i had spent the first season well enough ; for though i had contracted some acquaintance with a gentleman who came to the bath for his diversion , yet i had entered into no felonious treaty , as it might be called .
however , i went this length the first season , viz . i contracted an acquaintance with a woman in whose house i lodged , who , though she did not keep an ill house , as we call it , yet had none of the best principles in herself .
i had on all occasions behaved myself so well as not to get the least slur upon my reputation on any account whatever , and all the men that i had conversed with were of so good reputation that i had not given the least reflection by conversing with them ; nor did any of them seem to think there was room for a wicked correspondence , if they had any of them offered it ; yet there was one gentleman , as above , who always singled me out for the diversion of my company , as he called it , which , as he was pleased to say , was very agreeable to him , but at that time there was no more in it .
i had many melancholy hours at the bath after the company was gone ; for though i went to bristol sometime for the disposing my effects , and for recruits of money , yet i chose to come back to bath for my residence , because being on good terms with the woman in whose house i lodged in the summer , i found that during the winter i lived rather cheaper there than i could do anywhere else .
here , i say , i passed the winter as heavily as i had passed the autumn cheerfully ; but having contracted a nearer intimacy with the said woman in whose house i lodged , i could not avoid communicating to her something of what lay hardest upon my mind and particularly the narrowness of my circumstances , and the loss of my fortune by the damage of my goods at sea . i told her also , that i had a mother and a brother in virginia in good circumstances ; and as i had really written back to my mother in particular to represent my condition , and the great loss i had received , which indeed came to almost # 500 , so i did not fail to let my new friend know that i expected a supply from thence , and so indeed i did ; and as the ships went from bristol to york river , in virginia , and back again generally in less time from london , and that my brother corresponded chiefly at bristol , i thought it was much better for me to wait here for my returns than to go to london , where also i had not the least acquaintance .
my new friend appeared sensibly affected with my condition , and indeed was so very kind as to reduce the rate of my living with her to so low a price during the winter , that she convinced me she got nothing by me ; and as for lodging , during the winter i paid nothing at all .
when the spring season came on , she continued to be as kind to me as she could , and i lodged with her for a time , till it was found necessary to do otherwise . she had some persons of character that frequently lodged in her house , and in particular the gentleman who , as i said , singled me out for his companion the winter before ; and he came down again with another gentleman in his company and two servants , and lodged in the same house . i suspected that my landlady had invited him thither , letting him know that i was still with her ; but she denied it , and protested to me that she did not , and he said the same . in a word , this gentleman came down and continued to single me out for his peculiar confidence as well as conversation . he was a complete gentleman , that must be confessed , and his company was very agreeable to me , as mine , if i might believe him , was to him .
he made no professions to be but of an extraordinary respect , and he had such an opinion of my virtue , that , as he often professed , he believed if he should offer anything else , i should reject him with contempt . he soon understood from me that i was a widow ; that i had arrived at bristol from virginia by the last ships ; and that i waited at bath till the next virginia fleet should arrive , by which i expected considerable effects . i understood by him , and by others of him , that he had a wife , but that the lady was distempered in her head , and was under the conduct of her own relations , which he consented to , to avoid any reflections that might ( as was not unusual in such cases ) be cast on him for mismanaging her cure ; and in the meantime he came to the bath to divert his thoughts from the disturbance of such a melancholy circumstance as that was .
my landlady , who of her own accord encouraged the correspondence on all occasions , gave me an advantageous character of him , as a man of honour and of virtue , as well as of great estate .
and indeed i had a great deal of reason to say so of him too ; for though we lodged both on a floor , and he had frequently come into my chamber , even when i was in bed , and i also into his when he was in bed , yet he never offered anything to me further than a kiss , or so much as solicited me to anything till long after , as you shall hear .
i frequently took notice to my landlady of his exceeding modesty , and she again used to tell me , she believed it was so from the beginning ; however , she used to tell me that she thought i ought to expect some gratification from him for my company , for indeed he did , as it were , engross me , and i was seldom from him .
i told her i had not given him the least occasion to think i wanted it , or that i would accept of it from him . she told me she would take that part upon her , and she did so , and managed it so dexterously , that the first time we were together alone , after she had talked with him , he began to inquire a little into my circumstances , as how i had subsisted myself since i came on shore , and whether i did not want money . i stood off very boldly .
i told him that though my cargo of tobacco was damaged , yet that it was not quite lost ; that the merchant i had been consigned to had so honestly managed for me that i had not wanted , and that i hoped , with frugal management , i should make it hold out till more would come , which i expected by the next fleet ; that in the meantime i had retrenched my expenses , and whereas i kept a maid last season , now i lived without ; and whereas i had a chamber and a dining-room then on the first floor , as he knew , i now had but one room , two pair of stairs , and the like .
'but i live , ' said i , ' as well satisfied now as i did then ' ; adding , that his company had been a means to make me live much more cheerfully than otherwise i should have done , for which i was much obliged to him ; and so i put off all room for any offer for the present .
however , it was not long before he attacked me again , and told me he found that i was backward to trust him with the secret of my circumstances , which he was sorry for ; assuring me that he inquired into it with no design to satisfy his own curiosity , but merely to assist me , if there was any occasion ; but since i would not own myself to stand in need of any assistance , he had but one thing more to desire of me , and that was , that i would promise him that when i was any way straitened , or like to be so , i would frankly tell him of it , and that i would make use of him with the same freedom that he made the offer ; adding , that i should always find i had a true friend , though perhaps i was afraid to trust him .
i omitted nothing that was fit to be said by one infinitely obliged , to let him know that i had a due sense of his kindness ; and indeed from that time i did not appear so much reserved to him as i had done before , though still within the bounds of the strictest virtue on both sides ; but how free soever our conversation was , i could not arrive to that sort of freedom which he desired , viz. to tell him i wanted money , though i was secretly very glad of his offer .
some weeks passed after this , and still i never asked him for money ; when my landlady , a cunning creature , who had often pressed me to it , but found that i could not do it , makes a story of her own inventing , and comes in bluntly to me when we were together .
'oh , widow ! ' says she , ' i have bad news to tell you this morning . '
'what is that ? ' said i ; ' are the virginia ships taken by the french ? ' --for that was my fear .
'no , no , ' says she , ' but the man you sent to bristol yesterday for money is come back , and says he has brought none . '
now i could by no means like her project ; i though it looked too much like prompting him , which indeed he did not want , and i clearly saw that i should lose nothing by being backward to ask , so i took her up short .
'i can 't image why he should say so to you , ' said i , ' for i assure you he brought me all the money i sent him for , and here it is , ' said i ( pulling out my purse with about twelve guineas in it ) ; and added , ' i intend you shall have most of it by and by . '
he seemed distasted a little at her talking as she did at first , as well as i , taking it , as i fancied he would , as something forward of her ; but when he saw me give such an answer , he came immediately to himself again .
the next morning we talked of it again , when i found he was fully satisfied , and , smiling , said he hoped i would not want money and not tell him of it , and that i had promised him otherwise .
i told him i had been very much dissatisfied at my landlady 's talking so publicly the day before of what she had nothing to do with ; but i supposed she wanted what i owed her , which was about eight guineas , which i had resolved to give her , and had accordingly given it her the same night she talked so foolishly .
he was in a might good humour when he heard me say i had paid her , and it went off into some other discourse at that time . but the next morning , he having heard me up about my room before him , he called to me , and i answering , he asked me to come into his chamber .
he was in bed when i came in , and he made me come and sit down on his bedside , for he said he had something to say to me which was of some moment .
after some very kind expressions , he asked me if i would be very honest to him , and give a sincere answer to one thing he would desire of me .
after some little cavil at the word ' sincere , ' and asking him if i had ever given him any answers which were not sincere , i promised him i would .
why , then , his request was , he said , to let him see my purse . i immediately put my hand into my pocket , and , laughing to him , pulled it out , and there was in it three guineas and a half . then he asked me if there was all the money i had . i told him no , laughing again , not by a great deal .
well , then , he said , he would have me promise to go and fetch him all the money i had , every farthing . i told him i would , and i went into my chamber and fetched him a little private drawer , where i had about six guineas more , and some silver , and threw it all down upon the bed , and told him there was all my wealth , honestly to a shilling . he looked a little at it , but did not tell it , and huddled it all into the drawer again , and then reaching his pocket , pulled out a key , and bade me open a little walnut-tree box he had upon the table , and bring him such a drawer , which i did . in which drawer there was a great deal of money in gold , i believe near two hundred guineas , but i knew not how much .
he took the drawer , and taking my hand , made me put it in and take a whole handful . i was backward at that , but he held my hand hard in his hand , and put it into the drawer , and made me take out as many guineas almost as i could well take up at once .
when i had done so , he made me put them into my lap , and took my little drawer , and poured out all my money among his , and bade me get me gone , and carry it all home into my own chamber .
i relate this story the more particularly because of the good-humour there was in it , and to show the temper with which we conversed .
it was not long after this but he began every day to find fault with my clothes , with my laces and headdresses , and , in a word , pressed me to buy better ; which , by the way , i was willing enough to do , though i did not seem to be so , for i loved nothing in the world better than fine clothes . i told him i must housewife the money he had lent me , or else i should not be able to pay him again .
he then told me , in a few words , that as he had a sincere respect for me , and knew my circumstances , he had not lent me that money , but given it me , and that he thought i had merited it from him by giving him my company so entirely as i had done .
after this he made me take a maid , and keep house , and his friend that come with him to bath being gone , he obliged me to diet him , which i did very willingly , believing , as it appeared , that i should lose nothing by it , nor did the woman of the house fail to find her account in it too .
we had lived thus near three months , when the company beginning to wear away at the bath , he talked of going away , and fain he would have me to go to london with him . i was not very easy in that proposal , not knowing what posture i was to live in there , or how he might use me . but while this was in debate he fell very sick ; he had gone out to a place in somersetshire , called shepton , where he had some business and was there taken very ill , and so ill that he could not travel ; so he sent his man back to bath , to beg me that i would hire a coach and come over to him .
before he went , he had left all his money and other things of value with me , and what to do with them i did not know , but i secured them as well as i could , and locked up the lodgings and went to him , where i found him very ill indeed ; however , i persuaded him to be carried in a litter to the bath , where there was more help and better advice to be had .
he consented , and i brought him to the bath , which was about fifteen miles , as i remember . here he continued very ill of a fever , and kept his bed five weeks , all which time i nursed him and tended him myself , as much and as carefully as if i had been his wife ; indeed , if i had been his wife i could not have done more .
i sat up with him so much and so often , that at last , indeed , he would not let me sit up any longer , and then i got a pallet-bed into his room , and lay in it just at his bed 's feet . i was indeed sensibly affected with his condition , and with the apprehension of losing such a friend as he was , and was like to be to me , and i used to sit and cry by him many hours together .
however , at last he grew better , and gave hopes that he would recover , as indeed he did , though very slowly . were it otherwise than what i am going to say , i should not be backward to disclose it , as it is apparent i have done in other cases in this account ; but i affirm , that through all this conversation , abating the freedom of coming into the chamber when i or he was in bed , and abating the necessary offices of attending him night and day when he was sick , there had not passed the least immodest word or action between us .
oh that it had been so to the last !
after some time he gathered strength and grew well apace , and i would have removed my pallet-bed , but he would not let me , till he was able to venture himself without anybody to sit up with him , and then i removed to my own chamber .
he took many occasions to express his sense of my tenderness and concern for him ; and when he grew quite well , he made me a present of fifty guineas for my care and , as he called it , for hazarding my life to save his .
and now he made deep protestations of a sincere inviolable affection for me , but all along attested it to be with the utmost reserve for my virtue and his own . i told him i was fully satisfied of it . he carried it that length that he protested to me , that if he was naked in bed with me , he would as sacredly preserve my virtue as he would defend it if i was assaulted by a ravisher .
i believed him , and told him i did so ; but this did not satisfy him , he would , he said , wait for some opportunity to give me an undoubted testimony of it .
it was a great while after this that i had occasion , on my own business , to go to bristol , upon which he hired me a coach , and would go with me , and did so ; and now indeed our intimacy increased .
from bristol he carried me to gloucester , which was merely a journey of pleasure , to take the air ; and here it was our hap to have no lodging in the inn but in one large chamber with two beds in it .
the master of the house going up with us to show his rooms , and coming into that room , said very frankly to him , ' sir , it is none of my business to inquire whether the lady be your spouse or no , but if not , you may lie as honestly in these two beds as if you were in two chambers , ' and with that he pulls a great curtain which drew quite across the room and effectually divided the beds .
'well , ' says my friend , very readily , ' these beds will do , and as for the rest , we are too near akin to lie together , though we may lodge near one another ' ; and this put an honest face on the thing too .
when we came to go to bed , he decently went out of the room till i was in bed , and then went to bed in the bed on his own side of the room , but lay there talking to me a great while .
at last , repeating his usual saying , that he could lie naked in the bed with me and not offer me the least injury , he starts out of his bed .
'and now , my dear , ' says he , ' you shall see how just i will be to you , and that i can keep my word , ' and away he comes to my bed .
i resisted a little , but i must confess i should not have resisted him much if he had not made those promises at all ; so after a little struggle , as i said , i lay still and let him come to bed .
when he was there he took me in his arms , and so i lay all night with him , but he had no more to do with me , or offered anything to me , other than embracing me , as i say , in his arms , no , not the whole night , but rose up and dressed him in the morning , and left me as innocent for him as i was the day i was born . this was a surprising thing to me , and perhaps may be so to others , who know how the laws of nature work ; for he was a strong , vigorous , brisk person ; nor did he act thus on a principle of religion at all , but of mere affection ; insisting on it , that though i was to him to most agreeable woman in the world , yet , because he loved me , he could not injure me .
i own it was a noble principle , but as it was what i never understood before , so it was to me perfectly amazing .
we traveled the rest of the journey as we did before , and came back to the bath , where , as he had opportunity to come to me when he would , he often repeated the moderation , and i frequently lay with him , and he with me , and although all the familiarities between man and wife were common to us , yet he never once offered to go any farther , and he valued himself much upon it .
i do not say that i was so wholly pleased with it as he thought i was , for i own much wickeder than he , as you shall hear presently .
we lived thus near two years , only with this exception , that he went three times to london in that time , and once he continued there four months ; but , to do him justice , he always supplied me with money to subsist me very handsomely .
had we continued thus , i confess we had had much to boast of ; but as wise men say , it is ill venturing too near the brink of a command , so we found it ; and here again i must do him the justice to own that the first breach was not on his part .
it was one night that we were in bed together warm and merry , and having drunk , i think , a little more wine that night , both of us , than usual , although not in the least to disorder either of us , when , after some other follies which i cannot name , and being clasped close in his arms , i told him ( i repeat it with shame and horror of soul ) that i could find in my heart to discharge him of his engagement for one night and no more .
he took me at my word immediately , and after that there was no resisting him ; neither indeed had i any mind to resist him any more , let what would come of it .
thus the government of our virtue was broken , and i exchanged the place of friend for that unmusical , harsh-sounding title of whore .
in the morning we were both at our penitentials ; i cried very heartily , he expressed himself very sorry ; but that was all either of us could do at that time , and the way being thus cleared , and the bars of virtue and conscience thus removed , we had the less difficult afterwards to struggle with .
it was but a dull kind of conversation that we had together for all the rest of that week ; i looked on him with blushes , and every now and then started that melancholy objection , ' what if i should be with child now ? what will become of me then ? '
he encouraged me by telling me , that as long as i was true to him , he would be so to me ; and since it was gone such a length ( which indeed he never intended ) , yet if i was with child , he would take care of that , and of me too .
this hardened us both . i assured him if i was with child , i would die for want of a midwife rather than name him as the father of it ; and he assured me i should never want if i should be with child .
these mutual assurances hardened us in the thing , and after this we repeated the crime as often as we pleased , till at length , as i had feared , so it came to pass , and i was indeed with child .
after i was sure it was so , and i had satisfied him of it too , we began to think of taking measures for the managing it , and i proposed trusting the secret to my landlady , and asking her advice , which he agreed to . my landlady , a woman ( as i found ) used to such things , made light of it ; she said she knew it would come to that at last , and made us very merry about it . as i said above , we found her an experienced old lady at such work ; she undertook everything , engaged to procure a midwife and a nurse , to satisfy all inquiries , and bring us off with reputation , and she did so very dexterously indeed .
when i grew near my time she desired my gentleman to go away to london , or make as if he did so . when he was gone , she acquainted the parish officers that there was a lady ready to lie in at her house , but that she knew her husband very well , and gave them , as she pretended , an account of his name , which she called sir walter cleve ; telling them he was a very worthy gentleman , and that she would answer for all inquiries , and the like .
this satisfied the parish officers presently , and i lay in with as much credit as i could have done if i had really been my lady cleve , and was assisted in my travail by three or four of the best citizens ' wives of bath who lived in the neighbourhood , which , however , made me a little the more expensive to him . i often expressed my concern to him about it , but he bid me not be concerned at it .
as he had furnished me very sufficiently with money for the extraordinary expenses of my lying in , i had everything very handsome about me , but did not affect to be gay or extravagant neither ; besides , knowing my own circumstances , and knowing the world as i had done , and that such kind of things do not often last long , i took care to lay up as much money as i could for a wet day , as i called it ; making him believe it was all spent upon the extraordinary appearance of things in my lying in .
by this means , and including what he had given me as above , i had at the end of my lying in about two hundred guineas by me , including also what was left of my own .
i was brought to bed of a fine boy indeed , and a charming child it was ; and when he heard of it he wrote me a very kind , obliging letter about it , and then told me , he thought it would look better for me to come away for london as soon as i was up and well ; that he had provided apartments for me at hammersmith , as if i came thither only from london ; and that after a little while i should go back to the bath , and he would go with me .
i liked this offer very well , and accordingly hired a coach on purpose , and taking my child , and a wet-nurse to tend and suckle it , and a maid-servant with me , away i went for london .
he met me at reading in his own chariot , and taking me into that , left the servant and the child in the hired coach , and so he brought me to my new lodgings at hammersmith ; with which i had abundance of reason to be very well pleased , for they were very handsome rooms , and i was very well accommodated .
and now i was indeed in the height of what i might call my prosperity , and i wanted nothing but to be a wife , which , however , could not be in this case , there was no room for it ; and therefore on all occasions i studied to save what i could , as i have said above , against a time of scarcity , knowing well enough that such things as these do not always continue ; that men that keep mistresses often change them , grow weary of them , or jealous of them , or something or other happens to make them withdraw their bounty ; and sometimes the ladies that are thus well used are not careful by a prudent conduct to preserve the esteem of their persons , or the nice article of their fidelity , and then they are justly cast off with contempt .
but i was secured in this point , for as i had no inclination to change , so i had no manner of acquaintance in the whole house , and so no temptation to look any farther . i kept no company but in the family when i lodged , and with the clergyman 's lady at next door ; so that when he was absent i visited nobody , nor did he ever find me out of my chamber or parlour whenever he came down ; if i went anywhere to take the air , it was always with him .
the living in this manner with him , and his with me , was certainly the most undesigned thing in the world ; he often protested to me , that when he became first acquainted with me , and even to the very night when we first broke in upon our rules , he never had the least design of lying with me ; that he always had a sincere affection for me , but not the least real inclination to do what he had done . i assured him i never suspected him ; that if i had i should not so easily have yielded to the freedom which brought it on , but that it was all a surprise , and was owing to the accident of our having yielded too far to our mutual inclinations that night ; and indeed i have often observed since , and leave it as a caution to the readers of this story , that we ought to be cautious of gratifying our inclinations in loose and lewd freedoms , lest we find our resolutions of virtue fail us in the junction when their assistance should be most necessary .
it is true , and i have confessed it before , that from the first hour i began to converse with him , i resolved to let him lie with me , if he offered it ; but it was because i wanted his help and assistance , and i knew no other way of securing him than that . but when were that night together , and , as i have said , had gone such a length , i found my weakness ; the inclination was not to be resisted , but i was obliged to yield up all even before he asked it .
however , he was so just to me that he never upbraided me with that ; nor did he ever express the least dislike of my conduct on any other occasion , but always protested he was as much delighted with my company as he was the first hour we came together : i mean , came together as bedfellows .
it is true that he had no wife , that is to say , she was as no wife to him , and so i was in no danger that way , but the just reflections of conscience oftentimes snatch a man , especially a man of sense , from the arms of a mistress , as it did him at last , though on another occasion . on the other hand , though i was not without secret reproaches of my own conscience for the life i led , and that even in the greatest height of the satisfaction i ever took , yet i had the terrible prospect of poverty and starving , which lay on me as a frightful spectre , so that there was no looking behind me . but as poverty brought me into it , so fear of poverty kept me in it , and i frequently resolved to leave it quite off , if i could but come to lay up money enough to maintain me . but these were thoughts of no weight , and whenever he came to me they vanished ; for his company was so delightful , that there was no being melancholy when he was there ; the reflections were all the subject of those hours when i was alone .
i lived six years in this happy but unhappy condition , in which time i brought him three children , but only the first of them lived ; and though i removed twice in those six years , yet i came back the sixth year to my first lodgings at hammersmith .
here it was that i was one morning surprised with a kind but melancholy letter from my gentleman , intimating that he was very ill , and was afraid he should have another fit of sickness , but that his wife 's relations being in the house with him , it would not be practicable to have me with him , which , however , he expressed his great dissatisfaction in , and that he wished i could be allowed to tend and nurse him as i did before . i was very much concerned at this account , and was very impatient to know how it was with him .
i waited a fortnight or thereabouts , and heard nothing , which surprised me , and i began to be very uneasy indeed . i think , i may say , that for the next fortnight i was near to distracted . it was my particular difficulty that i did not know directly where he was ; for i understood at first he was in the lodgings of his wife 's mother ; but having removed myself to london , i soon found , by the help of the direction i had for writing my letters to him , how to inquire after him , and there i found that he was at a house in bloomsbury , whither he had , a little before he fell sick , removed his whole family ; and that his wife and wife 's mother were in the same house , though the wife was not suffered to know that she was in the same house with her husband .
here i also soon understood that he was at the last extremity , which made me almost at the last extremity too , to have a true account .
one night i had the curiosity to disguise myself like a servant-maid , in a round cap and straw hat , and went to the door , as sent by a lady of his neighbourhood , where he lived before , and giving master and mistress 's service , i said i was sent to know how mr. ---- did , and how he had rested that night .
in delivering this message i got the opportunity i desired ; for , speaking with one of the maids , i held a long gossip 's tale with her , and had all the particulars of his illness , which i found was a pleurisy , attended with a cough and a fever . she told me also who was in the house , and how his wife was , who , by her relation , they were in some hopes might recover her understanding ; but as to the gentleman himself , in short she told me the doctors said there was very little hopes of him , that in the morning they thought he had been dying , and that he was but little better then , for they did not expect that he could live over the next night .
this was heavy news for me , and i began now to see an end of my prosperity , and to see also that it was very well i had played to good housewife , and secured or saved something while he was alive , for that now i had no view of my own living before me .
it lay very heavy upon my mind , too , that i had a son , a fine lovely boy , about five years old , and no provision made for it , at least that i knew of . with these considerations , and a sad heart , i went home that evening , and began to cast with myself how i should live , and in what manner to bestow myself , for the residue of my life .
you may be sure i could not rest without inquiring again very quickly what was become of him ; and not venturing to go myself , i sent several sham messengers , till after a fortnight 's waiting longer , i found that there was hopes of his life , though he was still very ill ; then i abated my sending any more to the house , and in some time after i learned in the neighbourhood that he was about house , and then that he was abroad again . i made no doubt then but that i should soon hear of him , and began to comfort myself with my circumstances being , as i thought , recovered .
i waited a week , and two weeks , and with much surprise and amazement i waited near two months and heard nothing , but that , being recovered , he was gone into the country for the air , and for the better recovery after his distemper . after this it was yet two months more , and then i understood he was come to his city house again , but still i heard nothing from him .
i had written several letters for him , and directed them as usual , and found two or three of them had been called for , but not the rest .
i wrote again in a more pressing manner than ever , and in one of them let him know , that i must be forced to wait on him myself , representing my circumstances , the rent of lodgings to pay , and the provision for the child wanting , and my own deplorable condition , destitute of subsistence for his most solemn engagement to take care of and provide for me . i took a copy of this letter , and finding it lay at the house near a month and was not called for , i found means to have the copy of it put into his own hands at a coffee-house , where i had by inquiry found he used to go .
this letter forced an answer from him , by which , though i found i was to be abandoned , yet i found he had sent a letter to me some time before , desiring me to go down to the bath again . its contents i shall come to presently .
it is true that sick-beds are the time when such correspondences as this are looked on with different countenances , and seen with other eyes than we saw them with , or than they appeared with before . my lover had been at the gates of death , and at the very brink of eternity ; and , it seems , had been struck with a due remorse , and with sad reflections upon his past life of gallantry and levity ; and among the rest , criminal correspondence with me , which was neither more nor less than a long-continued life of adultery , and represented itself as it really was , not as it had been formerly thought by him to be , and he looked upon it now with a just and religious abhorrence .
i found it so here , though good manners and justice in this gentleman kept him from carrying it on to any extreme but the short history of his part in this affair was thus : he perceived by my last letter , and by all the rest , which he went for after , that i was not gone to bath , that his first letter had not come to my hand ; upon which he write me this following : --
'madam , --i am surprised that my letter , dated the 8th of last month , did not come to your hand ; i give you my word it was delivered at your lodgings , and to the hands of your maid .
'i need not acquaint you with what has been my condition for some time past ; and how , having been at the edge of the grave , i am , by the unexpected and undeserved mercy of heaven , restored again . in the condition i have been in , it cannot be strange to you that our unhappy correspondence had not been the least of the burthens which lay upon my conscience . i need say no more ; those things that must be repented of , must be also reformed . i wish you would think of going back to the bath .
i enclose you here a bill for # 50 for clearing yourself at your lodgings , and carrying you down , and hope it will be no surprise to you to add , that on this account only , and not for any offence given me on your side , i can see you no more .
i will take due care of the child ; leave him where he is , or take him with you , as you please . i wish you the like reflections , and that they may be to your advantage.--i am , ' etc .
i was struck with this letter as with a thousand wounds , such as i cannot describe ; the reproaches of my own conscience were such as i cannot express , for i was not blind to my own crime ; and i reflected that i might with less offence have continued with my brother , and lived with him as a wife , since there was no crime in our marriage on that score , neither of us knowing it .
but i never once reflected that i was all this while a married woman , a wife to mr. ---- the linen-draper , who , though he had left me by the necessity of his circumstances , had no power to discharge me from the marriage contract which was between us , or to give me a legal liberty to marry again ; so that i had been no less than a whore and an adulteress all this while .
i then reproached myself with the liberties i had taken , and how i had been a snare to this gentleman , and that indeed i was principal in the crime ; that now he was mercifully snatched out of the gulf by a convincing work upon his mind , but that i was left as if i was forsaken of god 's grace , and abandoned by heaven to a continuing in my wickedness .
under these reflections i continued very pensive and sad for near month , and did not go down to the bath , having no inclination to be with the woman whom i was with before ; lest , as i thought , she should prompt me to some wicked course of life again , as she had done ; and besides , i was very loth she should know i was cast off as above .
and now i was greatly perplexed about my little boy . it was death to me to part with the child , and yet when i considered the danger of being one time or other left with him to keep without a maintenance to support him , i then resolved to leave him where he was ; but then i concluded also to be near him myself too , that i then might have the satisfaction of seeing him , without the care of providing for him .
i sent my gentleman a short letter , therefore , that i had obeyed his orders in all things but that of going back to the bath , which i could not think of for many reasons ; that however parting from him was a wound to me that i could never recover , yet that i was fully satisfied his reflections were just , and would be very far from desiring to obstruct his reformation or repentance .
then i represented my own circumstances to him in the most moving terms that i was able .
i told him that those unhappy distresses which first moved him to a generous and an honest friendship for me , would , i hope , move him to a little concern for me now , though the criminal part of our correspondence , which i believed neither of us intended to fall into at the time , was broken off ; that i desired to repent as sincerely as he had done , but entreated him to put me in some condition that i might not be exposed to the temptations which the devil never fails to excite us to from the frightful prospect of poverty and distress ; and if he had the least apprehensions of my being troublesome to him , i begged he would put me in a posture to go back to my mother in virginia , from when he knew i came , and that would put an end to all his fears on that account . i concluded , that if he would send me # 50 more to facilitate my going away , i would send him back a general release , and would promise never to disturb him more with any importunities ; unless it was to hear of the well-doing of the child , whom , if i found my mother living and my circumstances able , i would send for to come over to me , and take him also effectually off his hands .
this was indeed all a cheat thus far , viz. that i had no intention to go to virginia , as the account of my former affairs there may convince anybody of ; but the business was to get this last # 50 of him , if possible , knowing well enough it would be the last penny i was ever to expect .
however , the argument i used , namely , of giving him a general release , and never troubling him any more , prevailed effectually with him , and he sent me a bill for the money by a person who brought with him a general release for me to sign , and which i frankly signed , and received the money ; and thus , though full sore against my will , a final end was put to this affair .
i was now a single person again , as i may call myself ; i was loosed from all the obligations either of wedlock or mistress-ship in the world , except my husband the linen-draper , whom , i having not now heard from in almost fifteen years , nobody could blame me for thinking myself entirely freed from ; seeing also he had at his going away told me , that if i did not hear frequently from him , i should conclude he was dead , and i might freely marry again to whom i pleased . i now began to cast up my accounts .
i had by many letters and much importunity , and with the intercession of my mother too , had a second return of some goods from my brother ( as i now call him ) in virginia , to make up the damage of the cargo i brought away with me , and this too was upon the condition of my sealing a general release to him , and to send it him by his correspondent at bristol , which , though i thought hard of , yet i was obliged to promise to do .
however , i managed so well in this case , that i got my goods away before the release was signed , and then i always found something or other to say to evade the thing , and to put off the signing it at all ; till at length i pretended i must write to my brother , and have his answer , before i could do it .
including this recruit , and before i got the last # 50 , i found my strength to amount , put all together , to about # 400 , so that with that i had about # 450 .
i had saved above # 100 more , but i met with a disaster with that , which was this--that a goldsmith in whose hands i had trusted it , broke , so i lost # 70 of my money , the man 's composition not making above # 30 out of his # 100 .
i had a little plate , but not much , and was well enough stocked with clothes and linen .
with this stock i had the world to begin again ; but you are to consider that i was not now the same woman as when i lived at redriff ; for , first of all , i was near twenty years older , and did not look the better for my age , nor for my rambles to virginia and back again ; and though i omitted nothing that might set me out to advantage , except painting , for that i never stooped to , and had pride enough to think i did not want it , yet there would always be some difference seen between five-and-twenty and two-and-forty .
i cast about innumerable ways for my future state of life , and began to consider very seriously what i should do , but nothing offered .
i took care to make the world take me for something more than i was , and had it given out that i was a fortune , and that my estate was in my own hands ; the last of which was very true , the first of it was as above .
i had no acquaintance , which was one of my worst misfortunes , and the consequence of that was , i had no adviser , at least who could assist and advise together ; and above all , i had nobody to whom i could in confidence commit the secret of my circumstances to , and could depend upon for their secrecy and fidelity ; and i found by experience , that to be friendless is the worst condition , next to being in want that a woman can be reduced to : i say a woman , because ' tis evident men can be their own advisers , and their own directors , and know how to work themselves out of difficulties and into business better than women ; but if a woman has no friend to communicate her affairs to , and to advise and assist her , ' tis ten to one but she is undone ; nay , and the more money she has , the more danger she is in of being wronged and deceived ; and this was my case in the affair of the # 100 which i left in the hands of the goldsmith , as above , whose credit , it seems , was upon the ebb before , but i , that had no knowledge of things and nobody to consult with , knew nothing of it , and so lost my money .
in the next place , when a woman is thus left desolate and void of counsel , she is just like a bag of money or a jewel dropped on the highway , which is a prey to the next comer ; if a man of virtue and upright principles happens to find it , he will have it cried , and the owner may come to hear of it again ; but how many times shall such a thing fall into hands that will make no scruple of seizing it for their own , to once that it shall come into good hands ?
this was evidently my case , for i was now a loose , unguided creature , and had no help , no assistance , no guide for my conduct ; i knew what i aimed at and what i wanted , but knew nothing how to pursue the end by direct means . i wanted to be placed in a settle state of living , and had i happened to meet with a sober , good husband , i should have been as faithful and true a wife to him as virtue itself could have formed .
if i had been otherwise , the vice came in always at the door of necessity , not at the door of inclination ; and i understood too well , by the want of it , what the value of a settled life was , to do anything to forfeit the felicity of it ; nay , i should have made the better wife for all the difficulties i had passed through , by a great deal ; nor did i in any of the time that i had been a wife give my husbands the least uneasiness on account of my behaviour .
but all this was nothing ; i found no encouraging prospect . i waited ; i lived regularly , and with as much frugality as became my circumstances , but nothing offered , nothing presented , and the main stock wasted apace . what to do i knew not ; the terror of approaching poverty lay hard upon my spirits . i had some money , but where to place it i knew not , nor would the interest of it maintain me , at least not in london .
at length a new scene opened .
there was in the house where i lodged a north-country woman that went for a gentlewoman , and nothing was more frequent in her discourse than her account of the cheapness of provisions , and the easy way of living in her country ; how plentiful and how cheap everything was , what good company they kept , and the like ; till at last i told her she almost tempted me to go and live in her country ; for i that was a widow , though i had sufficient to live on , yet had no way of increasing it ; and that i found i could not live here under # 100 a year , unless i kept no company , no servant , made no appearance , and buried myself in privacy , as if i was obliged to it by necessity .
i should have observed , that she was always made to believe , as everybody else was , that i was a great fortune , or at least that i had three or four thousand pounds , if not more , and all in my own hands ; and she was mighty sweet upon me when she thought me inclined in the least to go into her country . she said she had a sister lived near liverpool , that her brother was a considerable gentleman there , and had a great estate also in ireland ; that she would go down there in about two months , and if i would give her my company thither , i should be as welcome as herself for a month or more as i pleased , till i should see how i liked the country ; and if i thought fit to live there , she would undertake they would take care , though they did not entertain lodgers themselves , they would recommend me to some agreeable family , where i should be placed to my content .
if this woman had known my real circumstances , she would never have laid so many snares , and taken so many weary steps to catch a poor desolate creature that was good for little when it was caught ; and indeed i , whose case was almost desperate , and thought i could not be much worse , was not very anxious about what might befall me , provided they did me no personal injury ; so i suffered myself , though not without a great deal of invitation and great professions of sincere friendship and real kindness--i say , i suffered myself to be prevailed upon to go with her , and accordingly i packed up my baggage , and put myself in a posture for a journey , though i did not absolutely know whither i was to go .
and now i found myself in great distress ; what little i had in the world was all in money , except as before , a little plate , some linen , and my clothes ; as for my household stuff , i had little or none , for i had lived always in lodgings ; but i had not one friend in the world with whom to trust that little i had , or to direct me how to dispose of it , and this perplexed me night and day . i thought of the bank , and of the other companies in london , but i had no friend to commit the management of it to , and keep and carry about with me bank bills , tallies , orders , and such things , i looked upon at as unsafe ; that if they were lost , my money was lost , and then i was undone ; and , on the other hand , i might be robbed and perhaps murdered in a strange place for them . this perplexed me strangely , and what to do i knew not .
it came in my thoughts one morning that i would go to the bank myself , where i had often been to receive the interest of some bills i had , which had interest payable on them , and where i had found a clerk , to whom i applied myself , very honest and just to me , and particularly so fair one time that when i had mistold my money , and taken less than my due , and was coming away , he set me to rights and gave me the rest , which he might have put into his own pocket .
i went to him and represented my case very plainly , and asked if he would trouble himself to be my adviser , who was a poor friendless widow , and knew not what to do .
he told me , if i desired his opinion of anything within the reach of his business , he would do his endeavour that i should not be wronged , but that he would also help me to a good sober person who was a grave man of his acquaintance , who was a clerk in such business too , though not in their house , whose judgment was good , and whose honesty i might depend upon .
'for , ' added he , ' i will answer for him , and for every step he takes ; if he wrongs you , madam , of one farthing , it shall lie at my door , i will make it good ; and he delights to assist people in such cases--he does it as an act of charity . '
i was a little at a stand in this discourse ; but after some pause i told him i had rather have depended upon him , because i had found him honest , but if that could not be , i would take his recommendation sooner than any one 's else .
'i dare say , madam , ' says he , ' that you will be as well satisfied with my friend as with me , and he is thoroughly able to assist you , which i am not . '
it seems he had his hands full of the business of the bank , and had engaged to meddle with no other business that that of his office , which i heard afterwards , but did not understand then . he added , that his friend should take nothing of me for his advice or assistance , and this indeed encouraged me very much .
he appointed the same evening , after the bank was shut and business over , for me to meet him and his friend .
and indeed as soon as i saw his friend , and he began but to talk of the affair , i was fully satisfied that i had a very honest man to deal with ; his countenance spoke it , and his character , as i heard afterwards , was everywhere so good , that i had no room for any more doubts upon me .
after the first meeting , in which i only said what i had said before , we parted , and he appointed me to come the next day to him , telling me i might in the meantime satisfy myself of him by inquiry , which , however , i knew not how well to do , having no acquaintance myself .
accordingly i met him the next day , when i entered more freely with him into my case . i told him my circumstances at large : that i was a widow come over from america , perfectly desolate and friendless ; that i had a little money , and but a little , and was almost distracted for fear of losing it , having no friend in the world to trust with the management of it ; that i was going into the north of england to live cheap , that my stock might not waste ; that i would willingly lodge my money in the bank , but that i durst not carry the bills about me , and the like , as above ; and how to correspond about it , or with whom , i knew not .
he told me i might lodge the money in the bank as an account , and its being entered into the books would entitle me to the money at any time , and if i was in the north i might draw bills on the cashier and receive it when i would ; but that then it would be esteemed as running cash , and the bank would give no interest for it ; that i might buy stock with it , and so it would lie in store for me , but that then if i wanted to dispose if it , i must come up to town on purpose to transfer it , and even it would be with some difficulty i should receive the half-yearly dividend , unless i was here in person , or had some friend i could trust with having the stock in his name to do it for me , and that would have the same difficulty in it as before ; and with that he looked hard at me and smiled a little .
at last , says he , ' why do you not get a head steward , madam , that may take you and your money together into keeping , and then you would have the trouble taken off your hands ? '
'ay , sir , and the money too , it may be , ' said i ; ' for truly i find the hazard that way is as much as ' tis t 'other way ' ; but i remember i said secretly to myself , ' i wish you would ask me the question fairly , i would consider very seriously on it before i said no . '
he went on a good way with me , and i thought once or twice he was in earnest , but to my real affliction , i found at last he had a wife ; but when he owned he had a wife he shook his head , and said with some concern , that indeed he had a wife , and no wife .
i began to think he had been in the condition of my late lover , and that his wife had been distempered or lunatic , or some such thing .
however , we had not much more discourse at that time , but he told me he was in too much hurry of business then , but that if i would come home to his house after their business was over , he would by that time consider what might be done for me , to put my affairs in a posture of security .
i told him i would come , and desired to know where he lived .
he gave me a direction in writing , and when he gave it me he read it to me , and said , ' there ' tis , madam , if you dare trust yourself with me . ' ' yes , sir , ' said i , ' i believe i may venture to trust you with myself , for you have a wife , you say , and i don 't want a husband ; besides , i dare trust you with my money , which is all i have in the world , and if that were gone , i may trust myself anywhere . '
he said some things in jest that were very handsome and mannerly , and would have pleased me very well if they had been in earnest ; but that passed over , i took the directions , and appointed to attend him at his house at seven o 'clock the same evening .
when i came he made several proposals for my placing my money in the bank , in order to my having interest for it ; but still some difficulty or other came in the way , which he objected as not safe ; and i found such a sincere disinterested honesty in him , that i began to muse with myself , that i had certainly found the honest man i wanted , and that i could never put myself into better hands ; so i told him with a great deal of frankness that i had never met with a man or woman yet that i could trust , or in whom i could think myself safe , but that i saw he was so disinterestedly concerned for my safety , that i said i would freely trust him with the management of that little i had , if he would accept to be steward for a poor widow that could give him no salary .
he smiled and , standing up , with great respect saluted me . he told me he could not but take it very kindly that i had so good an opinion of him ; that he would not deceive me , that he would do anything in his power to serve me , and expect no salary ; but that he could not by any means accept of a trust , that it might bring him to be suspected of self-interest , and that if i should die he might have disputes with my executors , which he should be very loth to encumber himself with .
i told him if those were all his objections i would soon remove them , and convince him that there was not the least room for any difficulty ; for that , first , as for suspecting him , if ever i should do it , now is the time to suspect him , and not put the trust into his hands , and whenever i did suspect him , he could but throw it up then and refuse to go any further . then , as to executors , i assured him i had no heirs , nor any relations in england , and i should alter my condition before i died , and then his trust and trouble should cease together , which , however , i had no prospect of yet ; but i told him if i died as i was , it should be all his own , and he would deserve it by being so faithful to me as i was satisfied he would be .
he changed his countenance at this discourse , and asked me how i came to have so much good-will for him ; and , looking very much pleased , said he might very lawfully wish he was a single man for my sake .
i smiled , and told him as he was not , my offer could have no design upon him in it , and to wish , as he did , was not to be allowed , ' twas criminal to his wife . he told me i was wrong .
'for , ' says he , ' madam , as i said before , i have a wife and no wife , and ' twould be no sin to me to wish her hanged , if that were all . '
'i know nothing of your circumstances that way , sir , ' said i ; ' but it cannot be innocent to wish your wife dead . '
'i tell you , ' says he again , ' she is a wife and no wife ; you don 't know what i am , or what she is . '
'that 's true , ' said i ; ' sir , i do not know what you are , but i believe you to be an honest man , and that 's the cause of all my confidence in you . '
'well , well , ' says he , ' and so i am , i hope , too . but i am something else too , madam ; for , ' says he , ' to be plain with you , i am a cuckold , and she is a whore . '
he spoke it in a kind of jest , but it was with such an awkward smile , that i perceived it was what struck very close to him , and he looked dismally when he said it .
'that alters the case indeed , sir , ' said i , ' as to that part you were speaking of ; but a cuckold , you know , may be an honest man ; it does not alter that case at all . besides , i think , ' said i , ' since your wife is so dishonest to you , you are too honest to her to own her for your wife ; but that , ' said i , ' is what i have nothing to do with . '
'nay , ' says he , ' i do not think to clear my hands of her ; for , to be plain with you , madam , ' added he , ' i am no contended cuckold neither : on the other hand , i assure you it provokes me the highest degree , but i can 't help myself ; she that will be a whore , will be a whore . '
i waived the discourse and began to talk of my business ; but i found he could not have done with it , so i let him alone , and he went on to tell me all the circumstances of his case , too long to relate here ; particularly , that having been out of england some time before he came to the post he was in , she had had two children in the meantime by an officer of the army ; and that when he came to england and , upon her submission , took her again , and maintained her very well , yet she ran away from him with a linen-draper 's apprentice , robbed him of what she could come at , and continued to live from him still . ' so that , madam , ' says he , ' she is a whore not by necessity , which is the common bait of your sex , but by inclination , and for the sake of the vice . '
well , i pitied him , and wished him well rid of her , and still would have talked of my business , but it would not do . at last he looks steadily at me .
'look you , madam , ' says he , ' you came to ask advice of me , and i will serve you as faithfully as if you were my own sister ; but i must turn the tables , since you oblige me to do it , and are so friendly to me , and i think i must ask advice of you . tell me , what must a poor abused fellow do with a whore ?
what can i do to do myself justice upon her ? '
'alas ! sir , ' says i , " tis a case too nice for me to advise in , but it seems she has run away from you , so you are rid of her fairly ; what can you desire more ? '
'ay , she is gone indeed , ' said he , ' but i am not clear of her for all that . '
'that 's true , ' says i ; ' she may indeed run you into debt , but the law has furnished you with methods to prevent that also ; you may cry her down , as they call it . '
'no , no , ' says he , ' that is not the case neither ; i have taken care of all that ; ' tis not that part that i speak of , but i would be rid of her so that i might marry again . '
'well , sir , ' says i , ' then you must divorce her . if you can prove what you say , you may certainly get that done , and then , i suppose , you are free . '
'that 's very tedious and expensive , ' says he .
'why , ' says i , ' if you can get any woman you like to take your word , i suppose your wife would not dispute the liberty with you that she takes herself . '
'ay , ' says he , ' but ' twould be hard to bring an honest woman to do that ; and for the other sort , ' says he , ' i have had enough of her to meddle with any more whores . '
it occurred to me presently , ' i would have taken your word with all my heart , if you had but asked me the question ' ; but that was to myself .
to him i replied , ' why , you shut the door against any honest woman accepting you , for you condemn all that should venture upon you at once , and conclude , that really a woman that takes you now can 't be honest . '
'why , ' says he , ' i wish you would satisfy me that an honest woman would take me ; i 'd venture it ' ; and then turns short upon me , ' will you take me , madam ? '
'that 's not a fair question , ' says i , ' after what you have said ; however , lest you should think i wait only for a recantation of it , i shall answer you plainly , no , not i ; my business is of another kind with you , and i did not expect you would have turned my serious application to you , in my own distracted case , into a comedy . '
'why , madam , ' says he , ' my case is as distracted as yours can be , and i stand in as much need of advice as you do , for i think if i have not relief somewhere , i shall be made myself , and i know not what course to take , i protest to you . '
'why , sir , ' says i , " tis easy to give advice in your case , much easier than it is in mine . '
'speak then , ' says he , ' i beg of you , for now you encourage me . '
'why , ' says i , ' if your case is so plain as you say it is , you may be legally divorced , and then you may find honest women enough to ask the question of fairly ; the sex is not so scarce that you can want a wife . '
'well , then , ' said he , ' i am in earnest ; i 'll take your advice ; but shall i ask you one question seriously beforehand ? '
'any question , ' said i , ' but that you did before . '
'no , that answer will not do , ' said he , ' for , in short , that is the question i shall ask . '
'you may ask what questions you please , but you have my answer to that already , ' said i. ' besides , sir , ' said i , ' can you think so ill of me as that i would give any answer to such a question beforehand ?
can any woman alive believe you in earnest , or think you design anything but to banter her ? '
'well , well , ' says he , ' i do not banter you , i am in earnest ; consider of it . '
'but , sir , ' says i , a little gravely , ' i came to you about my own business ; i beg of you to let me know , what you will advise me to do ? '
'i will be prepared , ' says he , ' against you come again . '
'nay , ' says i , ' you have forbid my coming any more . '
'why so ? ' said he , and looked a little surprised .
'because , ' said i , ' you can 't expect i should visit you on the account you talk of . '
'well , ' says he , ' you shall promise me to come again , however , and i will not say any more of it till i have gotten the divorce , but i desire you will prepare to be better conditioned when that 's done , for you shall be the woman , or i will not be divorced at all ; why , i owe it to your unlooked-for kindness , if it were to nothing else , but i have other reasons too . '
he could not have said anything in the world that pleased me better ; however , i knew that the way to secure him was to stand off while the thing was so remote , as it appeared to be , and that it was time enough to accept of it when he was able to perform it ; so i said very respectfully to him , it was time enough to consider of these things when he was in a condition to talk of them ; in the meantime , i told him , i was going a great way from him , and he would find objects enough to please him better .
we broke off here for the present , and he made me promise him to come again the next day , for his resolutions upon my own business , which after some pressing i did ; though had he seen farther into me , i wanted no pressing on that account . i came the next evening , accordingly , and brought my maid with me , to let him see that i kept a maid , but i sent her away as soon as i was gone in .
he would have had me let the maid have stayed , but i would not , but ordered her aloud to come for me again about nine o 'clock . but he forbade that , and told me he would see me safe home , which , by the way , i was not very well please with , supposing he might do that to know where i lived and inquire into my character and circumstances . however , i ventured that , for all that the people there or thereabout knew of me , was to my advantage ; and all the character he had of me , after he had inquired , was that i was a woman of fortune , and that i was a very modest , sober body ; which , whether true or not in the main , yet you may see how necessary it is for all women who expect anything in the world , to preserve the character of their virtue , even when perhaps they may have sacrificed the thing itself .
i found , and was not a little please with it , that he had provided a supper for me . i found also he lived very handsomely , and had a house very handsomely furnished ; all of which i was rejoiced at indeed , for i looked upon it as all my own .
we had now a second conference upon the subject-matter of the last conference . he laid his business very home indeed ; he protested his affection to me , and indeed i had no room to doubt it ; he declared that it began from the first moment i talked with him , and long before i had mentioned leaving my effects with him .
" tis no matter when it began , ' thought i ; ' if it will but hold , ' twill be well enough . '
he then told me how much the offer i had made of trusting him with my effects , and leaving them to him , had engaged him .
'so i intended it should , ' thought i , ' but then i thought you had been a single man too . '
after we had supped , i observed he pressed me very hard to drink two or three glasses of wine , which , however , i declined , but drank one glass or two . he then told me he had a proposal to make to me , which i should promise him i would not take ill if i should not grant it . i told him i hoped he would make no dishonourable proposal to me , especially in his own house , and that if it was such , i desired he would not propose it , that i might not be obliged to offer any resentment to him that did not become the respect i professed for him , and the trust i had placed in him in coming to his house ; and begged of him he would give me leave to go away , and accordingly began to put on my gloves and prepare to be gone , though at the same time i no more intended it than he intended to let me .
well , he importuned me not to talk of going ; he assured me he had no dishonourable thing in his thoughts about me , and was very far from offering anything to me that was dishonourable , and if i thought so , he would choose to say no more of it .
that part i did not relish at all . i told him i was ready to hear anything that he had to say , depending that he would say nothing unworthy of himself , or unfit for me to hear .
upon this , he told me his proposal was this : that i would marry him , though he had not yet obtained the divorce from the whore his wife ; and to satisfy me that he meant honourably , he would promise not to desire me to live with him , or go to bed with him till the divorce was obtained .
my heart said yes to this offer at first word , but it was necessary to play the hypocrite a little more with him ; so i seemed to decline the motion with some warmth , and besides a little condemning the thing as unfair , told him that such a proposal could be of no signification , but to entangle us both in great difficulties ; for if he should not at last obtain the divorce , yet we could not dissolve the marriage , neither could we proceed in it ; so that if he was disappointed in the divorce , i left him to consider what a condition we should both be in .
in short , i carried on the argument against this so far , that i convinced him it was not a proposal that had any sense in it .
well , then he went from it to another , and that was , that i would sign and seal a contract with him , conditioning to marry him as soon as the divorce was obtained , and to be void if he could not obtain it .
i told him such a thing was more rational than the other ; but as this was the first time that ever i could imagine him weak enough to be in earnest in this affair , i did not use to say yes at first asking ; i would consider of it . i played with this lover as an angler does with a trout .
i found i had him fast on the hook , so i jested with his new proposal , and put him off . i told him he knew little of me , and bade him inquire about me ; i let him also go home with me to my lodging , though i would not ask him to go in , for i told him it was not decent .
in short , i ventured to avoid signing a contract of marriage , and the reason why i did it was because the lady that had invited me so earnestly to go with her into lancashire insisted so positively upon it , and promised me such great fortunes , and such fine things there , that i was tempted to go and try . ' perhaps , ' said i , ' i may mend myself very much ' ; and then i made no scruple in my thoughts of quitting my honest citizen , whom i was not so much in love with as not to leave him for a richer .
in a word , i avoided a contract ; but told him i would go into the north , that he should know where to write to me by the consequence of the business i had entrusted with him ; that i would give him a sufficient pledge of my respect for him , for i would leave almost all i had in the world in his hands ; and i would thus far give him my word , that as soon as he had sued out a divorce from his first wife , he would send me an account of it , i would come up to london , and that then we would talk seriously of the matter .
it was a base design i went with , that i must confess , though i was invited thither with a design much worse than mine was , as the sequel will discover . well , i went with my friend , as i called her , into lancashire .
all the way we went she caressed me with the utmost appearance of a sincere , undissembled affection ; treated me , except my coach-hire , all the way ; and her brother brought a gentleman 's coach to warrington to receive us , and we were carried from thence to liverpool with as much ceremony as i could desire .
we were also entertained at a merchant 's house in liverpool three or four days very handsomely ; i forbear to tell his name , because of what followed . then she told me she would carry me to an uncle 's house of hers , where we should be nobly entertained . she did so ; her uncle , as she called him , sent a coach and four horses for us , and we were carried near forty miles i know not whither .
we came , however , to a gentleman 's seat , where was a numerous family , a large park , extraordinary company indeed , and where she was called cousin . i told her if she had resolved to bring me into such company as this , she should have let me have prepared myself , and have furnished myself with better clothes . the ladies took notice of that , and told me very genteelly they did not value people in their country so much by their clothes as they did in london ; that their cousin had fully informed them of my quality , and that i did not want clothes to set me off ; in short , they entertained me , not like what i was , but like what they thought i had been , namely , a widow lady of a great fortune .
the first discovery i made here was , that the family were all roman catholics , and the cousin too , whom i called my friend ; however , i must say that nobody in the world could behave better to me , and i had all the civility shown me that i could have had if i had been of their opinion .
the truth is , i had not so much principle of any kind as to be nice in point of religion , and i presently learned to speak favourably of the romish church ; particularly , i told them i saw little but the prejudice of education in all the difference that were among christians about religion , and if it had so happened that my father had been a roman catholic , i doubted not but i should have been as well pleased with their religion as my own .
this obliged them in the highest degree , and as i was besieged day and night with good company and pleasant discourse , so i had two or three old ladies that lay at me upon the subject of religion too .
i was so complaisant , that though i would not completely engage , yet i made no scruple to be present at their mass , and to conform to all their gestures as they showed me the pattern , but i would not come too cheap ; so that i only in the main encouraged them to expect that i would turn roman catholic , if i was instructed in the catholic doctrine as they called it , and so the matter rested .
i stayed here about six weeks ; and then my conductor led me back to a country village , about six miles from liverpool , where her brother ( as she called him ) came to visit me in his own chariot , and in a very good figure , with two footmen in a good livery ; and the next thing was to make love to me .
as it had happened to me , one would think i could not have been cheated , and indeed i thought so myself , having a safe card at home , which i resolved not to quit unless i could mend myself very much .
however , in all appearance this brother was a match worth my listening to , and the least his estate was valued at was # 1000 a year , but the sister said it was worth # 1500 a year , and lay most of it in ireland .
i that was a great fortune , and passed for such , was above being asked how much my estate was ; and my false friend taking it upon a foolish hearsay , had raised it from # 500 to # 5000 , and by the time she came into the country she called it # 15,000 .
the irishman , for such i understood him to be , was stark mad at this bait ; in short , he courted me , made me presents , and ran in debt like a madman for the expenses of his equipage and of his courtship . he had , to give him his due , the appearance of an extraordinary fine gentleman ; he was tall , well-shaped , and had an extraordinary address ; talked as naturally of his park and his stables , of his horses , his gamekeepers , his woods , his tenants , and his servants , as if we had been in the mansion-house , and i had seen them all about me .
he never so much as asked me about my fortune or estate , but assured me that when we came to dublin he would jointure me in # 600 a year good land ; and that we could enter into a deed of settlement or contract here for the performance of it . this was such language indeed as i had not been used to , and i was here beaten out of all my measures ; i had a she-devil in my bosom , every hour telling me how great her brother lived .
one time she would come for my orders , how i would have my coaches painted , and how lined ; and another time what clothes my page should wear ; in short , my eyes were dazzled . i had now lost my power of saying no , and , to cut the story short , i consented to be married ; but to be the more private , we were carried farther into the country , and married by a romish clergyman , who i was assured would marry us as effectually as a church of england parson .
i cannot say but i had some reflections in this affair upon the dishonourable forsaking my faithful citizen , who loved me sincerely , and who was endeavouring to quit himself of a scandalous whore by whom he had been indeed barbarously used , and promised himself infinite happiness in his new choice ; which choice was now giving up herself to another in a manner almost as scandalous as hers could be .
but the glittering shoe of a great estate , and of fine things , which the deceived creature that was now my deceiver represented every hour to my imagination , hurried me away , and gave me no time to think of london , or of anything there , much less of the obligation i had to a person of infinitely more real merit than what was now before me .
but the thing was done ; i was now in the arms of my new spouse , who appeared still the same as before ; great even to magnificence , and nothing less than # 1000 a year could support the ordinary equipage he appeared in .
after we had been married about a month , he began to talk of my going to west chester in order to embark for ireland .
however , he did not hurry me , for we stayed near three weeks longer , and then he sent to chester for a coach to meet us at the black rock , as they call it , over against liverpool .
thither we went in a fine boat they call a pinnace , with six oars ; his servants , and horses , and baggage going in the ferry-boat .
he made his excuse to me that he had no acquaintance in chester , but he would go before and get some handsome apartment for me at a private house . i asked him how long we should stay at chester .
he said , not at all , any longer than one night or two , but he would immediately hire a coach to go to holyhead . then i told him he should by no means give himself the trouble to get private lodgings for one night or two , for that chester being a great place , i made no doubt but there would be very good inns and accommodation enough ; so we lodged at an inn in the west street , not far from the cathedral ; i forget what sign it was at .
here my spouse , talking of my going to ireland , asked me if i had no affairs to settle at london before we went off . i told him no , not of any great consequence , but what might be done as well by letter from dublin .
'madam , ' says he , very respectfully , ' i suppose the greatest part of your estate , which my sister tells me is most of it in money in the bank of england , lies secure enough , but in case it required transferring , or any way altering its property , it might be necessary to go up to london and settle those things before we went over . '
i seemed to look strange at it , and told him i knew not what he meant ; that i had no effects in the bank of england that i knew of ; and i hoped he could not say that i had ever told him i had .
no , he said , i had not told him so , but his sister had said the greatest part of my estate lay there .
'and i only mentioned it , me dear , ' said he , ' that if there was any occasion to settle it , or order anything about it , we might not be obliged to the hazard and trouble of another voyage back again ' ; for he added , that he did not care to venture me too much upon the sea .
i was surprised at this talk , and began to consider very seriously what the meaning of it must be ; and it presently occurred to me that my friend , who called him brother , had represented me in colours which were not my due ; and i thought , since it was come to that pitch , that i would know the bottom of it before i went out of england , and before i should put myself into i knew not whose hands in a strange country .
upon this i called his sister into my chamber the next morning , and letting her know the discourse her brother and i had been upon the evening before , i conjured her to tell me what she had said to him , and upon what foot it was that she had made this marriage .
she owned that she had told him that i was a great fortune , and said that she was told so at london .
'told so ! ' says i warmly ; ' did i ever tell you so ? '
no , she said , it was true i did not tell her so , but i had said several times that what i had was in my own disposal .
'i did so , ' returned i very quickly and hastily , ' but i never told you i had anything called a fortune ; no , not that i had # 100 , or the value of # 100 , in the world .
any how did it consist with my being a fortune , ' said i , ' that i should come here into the north of england with you , only upon the account of living cheap ? '
at these words , which i spoke warm and high , my husband , her brother ( as she called him ) , came into the room , and i desired him to come and sit down , for i had something of moment to say before them both , which it was absolutely necessary he should hear .
he looked a little disturbed at the assurance with which i seemed to speak it , and came and sat down by me , having first shut the door ; upon which i began , for i was very much provoked , and turning myself to him , ' i am afraid , ' says i , ' my dear ' ( for i spoke with kindness on his side ) , ' that you have a very great abuse put upon you , and an injury done you never to be repaired in your marrying me , which , however , as i have had no hand in it , i desire i may be fairly acquitted of it , and that the blame may lie where it ought to lie , and nowhere else , for i wash my hands of every part of it . '
'what injury can be done me , my dear , ' says he , ' in marrying you .
i hope it is to my honour and advantage every way . '
'i will soon explain it to you , ' says i , ' and i fear you will have no reason to think yourself well used ; but i will convince you , my dear , ' says i again , ' that i have had no hand in it ' ; and there i stopped a while .
he looked now scared and wild , and began , i believe , to suspect what followed ; however , looking towards me , and saying only , ' go on , ' he sat silent , as if to hear what i had more to say ; so i went on .
'i asked you last night , ' said i , speaking to him , ' if ever i made any boast to you of my estate , or ever told you i had any estate in the bank of england or anywhere else , and you owned i had not , as is most true ; and i desire you will tell me here , before your sister , if ever i gave you any reason from me to think so , or that ever we had any discourse about it ' ; and he owned again i had not , but said i had appeared always as a woman of fortune , and he depended on it that i was so , and hoped he was not deceived .
'i am not inquiring yet whether you have been deceived or not , ' said i ; ' i fear you have , and i too ; but i am clearing myself from the unjust charge of being concerned in deceiving you .
'i have been now asking your sister if ever i told her of any fortune or estate i had , or gave her any particulars of it ; and she owns i never did .
any pray , madam , ' said i , turning myself to her , ' be so just to me , before your brother , to charge me , if you can , if ever i pretended to you that i had an estate ; and why , if i had , should i come down into this country with you on purpose to spare that little i had , and live cheap ? '
she could not deny one word , but said she had been told in london that i had a very great fortune , and that it lay in the bank of england .
'and now , dear sir , ' said i , turning myself to my new spouse again , ' be so just to me as to tell me who has abused both you and me so much as to make you believe i was a fortune , and prompt you to court me to this marriage ? '
he could not speak a word , but pointed to her ; and , after some more pause , flew out in the most furious passion that ever i saw a man in my life , cursing her , and calling her all the whores and hard names he could think of ; and that she had ruined him , declaring that she had told him i had # 15,000 , and that she was to have # 500 of him for procuring this match for him . he then added , directing his speech to me , that she was none of his sister , but had been his whore for two years before , that she had had # 100 of him in part of this bargain , and that he was utterly undone if things were as i said ; and in his raving he swore he would let her heart 's blood out immediately , which frightened her and me too .
she cried , said she had been told so in the house where i lodged . but this aggravated him more than before , that she should put so far upon him , and run things such a length upon no other authority than a hearsay ; and then , turning to me again , said very honestly , he was afraid we were both undone .
'for , to be plain , my dear , i have no estate , ' says he ; ' what little i had , this devil has made me run out in waiting on you and putting me into this equipage . '
she took the opportunity of his being earnest in talking with me , and got out of the room , and i never saw her more .
i was confounded now as much as he , and knew not what to say .
i thought many ways that i had the worst of it , but his saying he was undone , and that he had no estate neither , put me into a mere distraction .
'why , ' says i to him , ' this has been a hellish juggle , for we are married here upon the foot of a double fraud ; you are undone by the disappointment , it seems ; and if i had had a fortune i had been cheated too , for you say you have nothing . '
'you would indeed have been cheated , my dear , ' says he , ' but you would not have been undone , for # 15,000 would have maintained us both very handsomely in this country ; and i assure you , ' added he , ' i had resolved to have dedicated every groat of it to you ; i would not have wronged you of a shilling , and the rest i would have made up in my affection to you , and tenderness of you , as long as i lived . '
this was very honest indeed , and i really believe he spoke as he intended , and that he was a man that was as well qualified to make me happy , as to his temper and behaviour , as any man ever was ; but his having no estate , and being run into debt on this ridiculous account in the country , made all the prospect dismal and dreadful , and i knew not what to say , or what to think of myself .
i told him it was very unhappy that so much love , and so much good nature as i discovered in him , should be thus precipitated into misery ; that i saw nothing before us but ruin ; for as to me , it was my unhappiness that what little i had was not able to relieve us week , and with that i pulled out a bank bill of # 20 and eleven guineas , which i told him i had saved out of my little income , and that by the account that creature had given me of the way of living in that country , i expected it would maintain me three or four years ; that if it was taken from me , i was left destitute , and he knew what the condition of a woman among strangers must be , if she had no money in her pocket ; however , i told him , if he would take it , there it was .
he told me with a great concern , and i thought i saw tears stand in his eyes , that he would not touch it ; that he abhorred the thoughts of stripping me and make me miserable ; that , on the contrary , he had fifty guineas left , which was all he had in the world , and he pulled it out and threw it down on the table , bidding me take it , though he were to starve for want of it .
i returned , with the same concern for him , that i could not bear to hear him talk so ; that , on the contrary , if he could propose any probable method of living , i would do anything that became me on my part , and that i would live as close and as narrow as he could desire .
he begged of me to talk no more at that rate , for it would make him distracted ; he said he was bred a gentleman , though he was reduced to a low fortune , and that there was but one way left which he could think of , and that would not do , unless i could answer him one question , which , however , he said he would not press me to . i told him i would answer it honestly ; whether it would be to his satisfaction or not , that i could not tell .
'why , then , my dear , tell me plainly , ' says he , ' will the little you have keep us together in any figure , or in any station or place , or will it not ? '
it was my happiness hitherto that i had not discovered myself or my circumstances at all--no , not so much as my name ; and seeing these was nothing to be expected from him , however good-humoured and however honest he seemed to be , but to live on what i knew would soon be wasted , i resolved to conceal everything but the bank bill and the eleven guineas which i had owned ; and i would have been very glad to have lost that and have been set down where he took me up .
i had indeed another bank bill about me of # 30 , which was the whole of what i brought with me , as well to subsist on in the country , as not knowing what might offer ; because this creature , the go-between that had thus betrayed us both , had made me believe strange things of my marrying to my advantage in the country , and i was not willing to be without money , whatever might happen .
this bill i concealed , and that made me the freer of the rest , in consideration of his circumstances , for i really pitied him heartily .
but to return to his question , i told him i never willingly deceived him , and i never would .
i was very sorry to tell him that the little i had would not subsist us ; that it was not sufficient to subsist me alone in the south country , and that this was the reason that made me put myself into the hands of that woman who called him brother , she having assured me that i might board very handsomely at a town called manchester , where i had not yet been , for about # 6 a year ; and my whole income not being about # 15 a year , i thought i might live easy upon it , and wait for better things .
he shook his head and remained silent , and a very melancholy evening we had ; however , we supped together , and lay together that night , and when we had almost supped he looked a little better and more cheerful , and called for a bottle of wine .
'come , my dear , ' says he , ' though the case is bad , it is to no purpose to be dejected .
come , be as easy as you can ; i will endeavour to find out some way or other to live ; if you can but subsist yourself , that is better than nothing . i must try the world again ; a man ought to think like a man ; to be discouraged is to yield to the misfortune . '
with this he filled a glass and drank to me , holding my hand and pressing it hard in his hand all the while the wine went down , and protesting afterwards his main concern was for me .
it was really a true , gallant spirit he was of , and it was the more grievous to me .
'tis something of relief even to be undone by a man of honour , rather than by a scoundrel ; but here the greatest disappointment was on his side , for he had really spent a great deal of money , deluded by this madam the procuress ; and it was very remarkable on what poor terms he proceeded . first the baseness of the creature herself is to be observed , who , for the getting # 100 herself , could be content to let him spend three or four more , though perhaps it was all he had in the world , and more than all ; when she had not the least ground , more than a little tea-table chat , to say that i had any estate , or was a fortune , or the like .
it is true the design of deluding a woman of fortune , if i had been so , was base enough ; the putting the face of great things upon poor circumstances was a fraud , and bad enough ; but the case a little differed too , and that in his favour , for he was not a rake that made a trade to delude women , and , as some have done , get six or seven fortunes after one another , and then rifle and run away from them ; but he was really a gentleman , unfortunate and low , but had lived well ; and though , if i had had a fortune , i should have been enraged at the slut for betraying me , yet really for the man , a fortune would not have been ill bestowed on him , for he was a lovely person indeed , of generous principles , good sense , and of abundance of good-humour .
we had a great deal of close conversation that night , for we neither of us slept much ; he was as penitent for having put all those cheats upon me as if it had been felony , and that he was going to execution ; he offered me again every shilling of the money he had about him , and said he would go into the army and seek the world for more .
i asked him why he would be so unkind to carry me into ireland , when i might suppose he could not have subsisted me there .
he took me in his arms .
'my dear , ' said he , ' depend upon it , i never designed to go to ireland at all , much less to have carried you thither , but came hither to be out of the observation of the people , who had heard what i pretended to , and withal , that nobody might ask me for money before i was furnished to supply them . '
'but where , then , ' said i , ' were we to have gone next ? '
'why , my dear , ' said he , ' i 'll confess the whole scheme to you as i had laid it ; i purposed here to ask you something about your estate , as you see i did , and when you , as i expected you would , had entered into some account with me of the particulars , i would have made an excuse to you to have put off our voyage to ireland for some time , and to have gone first towards london .
'then , my dear , ' said he , ' i resolved to have confessed all the circumstances of my own affairs to you , and let you know i had indeed made use of these artifices to obtain your consent to marry me , but had now nothing to do but ask to your pardon , and to tell you how abundantly , as i have said above , i would endeavour to make you forget what was past , by the felicity of the days to come . '
'truly , ' said i to him , ' i find you would soon have conquered me ; and it is my affliction now , that i am not in a condition to let you see how easily i should have been reconciled to you , and have passed by all the tricks you had put upon me , in recompense of so much good-humour . but , my dear , ' said i , ' what can we do now ?
we are both undone , and what better are we for our being reconciled together , seeing we have nothing to live on ? '
we proposed a great many things , but nothing could offer where there was nothing to begin with .
he begged me at last to talk no more of it , for , he said , i would break his heart ; so we talked of other things a little , till at last he took a husband 's leave of me , and so we went to sleep .
he rose before me in the morning ; and indeed , having lain awake almost all night , i was very sleepy , and lay till near eleven o 'clock .
in this time he took his horses and three servants , and all his linen and baggage , and away he went , leaving a short but moving letter for me on the table , as follows : --
'my dear--i am a dog ; i have abused you ; but i have been drawn into do it by a base creature , contrary to my principle and the general practice of my life .
forgive me , my dear !
i ask your pardon with the greatest sincerity ; i am the most miserable of men , in having deluded you .
i have been so happy to possess you , and now am so wretched as to be forced to fly from you .
forgive me , my dear ; once more i say , forgive me !
i am not able to see you ruined by me , and myself unable to support you .
our marriage is nothing ; i shall never be able to see you again ; i here discharge you from it ; if you can marry to your advantage , do not decline it on my account ; i here swear to you on my faith , and on the word of a man of honour , i will never disturb your repose if i should know of it , which , however , is not likely . on the other hand , if you should not marry , and if good fortune should befall me , it shall be all yours , wherever you are .
'i have put some of the stock of money i have left into your pocket ; take places for yourself and your maid in the stage-coach , and go for london ; i hope it will bear your charges thither , without breaking into your own .
again i sincerely ask your pardon , and will do so as often as i shall ever think of you .
adieu , my dear , for ever ! --i am , your most affectionately , j.e . '
nothing that ever befell me in my life sank so deep into my heart as this farewell .
i reproached him a thousand times in my thoughts for leaving me , for i would have gone with him through the world , if i had begged my bread .
i felt in my pocket , and there found ten guineas , his gold watch , and two little rings , one a small diamond ring worth only about # 6 , and the other a plain gold ring .
i sat me down and looked upon these things two hours together , and scarce spoke a word , till my maid interrupted me by telling me my dinner was ready . i ate but little , and after dinner i fell into a vehement fit of crying , every now and then calling him by his name , which was james .
'o jemmy ! ' said i , ' come back , come back . i 'll give you all i have ; i 'll beg , i 'll starve with you . '
and thus i ran raving about the room several times , and then sat down between whiles , and then walking about again , called upon him to come back , and then cried again ; and thus i passed the afternoon , till about seven o 'clock , when it was near dusk , in the evening , being august , when , to my unspeakable surprise , he comes back into the inn , but without a servant , and comes directly up into my chamber .
i was in the greatest confusion imaginable , and so was he too . i could not imagine what should be the occasion of it , and began to be at odds with myself whether to be glad or sorry ; but my affection biassed all the rest , and it was impossible to conceal my joy , which was too great for smiles , for it burst out into tears .
he was no sooner entered the room but he ran to me and took me in his arms , holding me fast , and almost stopping my breath with his kisses , but spoke not a word .
at length i began .
'my dear , ' said i , ' how could you go away from me ? ' to which he gave no answer , for it was impossible for him to speak .
when our ecstasies were a little over , he told me he was gone about fifteen miles , but it was not in his power to go any farther without coming back to see me again , and to take his leave of me once more .
i told him how i had passed my time , and how loud i had called him to come back again .
he told me he heard me very plain upon delamere forest , at a place about twelve miles off .
i smiled .
'nay , ' says he , ' do not think i am in jest , for if ever i heard your voice in my life , i heard you call me aloud , and sometimes i thought i saw you running after me . '
'why , ' said i , ' what did i say ? ' --for i had not named the words to him .
'you called aloud , ' says he , ' and said , o jemmy ! o jemmy ! come back , come back . '
i laughed at him .
'my dear , ' says he , ' do not laugh , for , depend upon it , i heard your voice as plain as you hear mine now ; if you please , i 'll go before a magistrate and make oath of it . '
i then began to be amazed and surprised , and indeed frightened , and told him what i had really done , and how i had called after him , as above .
when we had amused ourselves a while about this , i said to him : ' well , you shall go away from me no more ; i 'll go all over the world with you rather . '
he told me it would be a very difficult thing for him to leave me , but since it must be , he hoped i would make it as easy to me as i could ; but as for him , it would be his destruction that he foresaw .
however , he told me that he considered he had left me to travel to london alone , which was too long a journey ; and that as he might as well go that way as any way else , he was resolved to see me safe thither , or near it ; and if he did go away then without taking his leave , i should not take it ill of him ; and this he made me promise .
he told me how he had dismissed his three servants , sold their horses , and sent the fellows away to seek their fortunes , and all in a little time , at a town on the road , i know not where . ' and , ' says he , ' it cost me some tears all alone by myself , to think how much happier they were than their master , for they could go to the next gentleman 's house to see for a service , whereas , ' said he , ' i knew not wither to go , or what to do with myself . '
i told him i was so completely miserable in parting with him , that i could not be worse ; and that now he was come again , i would not go from him , if he would take me with him , let him go whither he would , or do what he would .
and in the meantime i agreed that we would go together to london ; but i could not be brought to consent he should go away at last and not take his leave of me , as he proposed to do ; but told him , jesting , that if he did , i would call him back again as loud as i did before .
then i pulled out his watch and gave it him back , and his two rings , and his ten guineas ; but he would not take them , which made me very much suspect that he resolved to go off upon the road and leave me .
the truth is , the circumstances he was in , the passionate expressions of his letter , the kind , gentlemanly treatment i had from him in all the affair , with the concern he showed for me in it , his manner of parting with that large share which he gave me of his little stock left--all these had joined to make such impressions on me , that i really loved him most tenderly , and could not bear the thoughts of parting with him .
two days after this we quitted chester , i in the stage-coach , and he on horseback . i dismissed my maid at chester . he was very much against my being without a maid , but she being a servant hired in the country , and i resolving to keep no servant at london , i told him it would have been barbarous to have taken the poor wench and have turned her away as soon as i came to town ; and it would also have been a needless charge on the road , so i satisfied him , and he was easy enough on the score .
he came with me as far as dunstable , within thirty miles of london , and then he told me fate and his own misfortunes obliged him to leave me , and that it was not convenient for him to go to london , for reasons which it was of no value to me to know , and i saw him preparing to go .
the stage-coach we were in did not usually stop at dunstable , but i desiring it but for a quart of an hour , they were content to stand at an inndoor a while , and we went into the house .
being in the inn , i told him i had but one favour more to ask of him , and that was , that since he could not go any farther , he would give me leave to stay a week or two in the town with him , that we might in that time think of something to prevent such a ruinous thing to us both , as a final separation would be ; and that i had something of moment to offer him , that i had never said yet , and which perhaps he might find practicable to our mutual advantage .
this was too reasonable a proposal to be denied , so he called the landlady of the house , and told her his wife was taken ill , and so ill that she could not think of going any farther in the stage-coach , which had tired her almost to death , and asked if she could not get us a lodging for two or three days in a private house , where i might rest me a little , for the journey had been too much for me .
the landlady , a good sort of woman , well-bred and very obliging , came immediately to see me ; told me she had two or three very good rooms in a part of the house quite out of the noise , and if i saw them , she did not doubt but i would like them , and i should have one of her maids , that should do nothing else but be appointed to wait on me .
this was so very kind , that i could not but accept of it , and thank her ; so i went to look on the rooms and liked them very well , and indeed they were extraordinarily furnished , and very pleasant lodgings ; so we paid the stage-coach , took out our baggage , and resolved to stay here a while .
here i told him i would live with him now till all my money was spent , but would not let him spend a shilling of his own . we had some kind squabble about that , but i told him it was the last time i was like to enjoy his company , and i desired he would let me be master in that thing only , and he should govern in everything else ; so he acquiesced .
here one evening , taking a walk into the fields , i told him i would now make the proposal to him i had told him of ; accordingly i related to him how i had lived in virginia , that i had a mother i believed was alive there still , though my husband was dead some years . i told him that had not my effects miscarried , which , by the way , i magnified pretty much , i might have been fortune good enough to him to have kept us from being parted in this manner .
then i entered into the manner of peoples going over to those countries to settle , how they had a quantity of land given them by the constitution of the place ; and if not , that it might be purchased at so easy a rate this it was not worth naming .
i then gave him a full and distinct account of the nature of planting ; how with carrying over but two or three hundred pounds value in english goods , with some servants and tools , a man of application would presently lay a foundation for a family , and in a very few years be certain to raise an estate .
then i told him what measures i would take to raise such a sum of # 300 or thereabouts ; and i argued with him how good a method it would be to put an end to our misfortunes and restore our circumstances in the world , to what we had both expected ; and i added , that after seven years , if we lived , we might be in a posture to leave our plantations in good hands , and come over again and receive the income of it , and live here and enjoy it ; and i gave him examples of some that had done so , and lived now in very good circumstances in london .
in short , i pressed him so to it , that he almost agreed to it , but still something or other broke it off again ; till at last he turned the tables , and he began to talk almost to the same purpose of ireland .
he told me that a man that could confine himself to country life , and that could find but stock to enter upon any land , should have farms there for # 50 a year , as good as were here let for # 200 a year ; that the produce was such , and so rich the land , that if much was not laid up , we were sure to live as handsomely upon it as a gentleman of # 3000 a year could do in england and that he had laid a scheme to leave me in london , and go over and try ; and if he found he could lay a handsome foundation of living suitable to the respect he had for me , as he doubted not he should do , he would come over and fetch me .
i was dreadfully afraid that upon such a proposal he would have taken me at my word , viz. to sell my little income as i called it , and turn it into money , and let him carry it over into ireland and try his experiment with it ; but he was too just to desire it , or to have accepted it if i had offered it ; and he anticipated me in that , for he added , that he would go and try his fortune that way , and if he found he could do anything at it to live , then , by adding mine to it when i went over , we should live like ourselves ; but that he would not hazard a shilling of mine till he had made the experiment with a little , and he assured me that if he found nothing to be done in ireland , he would then come to me and join in my project for virginia .
i could bring him to nothing further than this . however , those consultations entertained us near a month , during which i enjoyed his company , which indeed was the most entertaining that ever i met in my life before .
in this time he let me into the whole story of his own life , which was indeed surprising , and full of an infinite variety sufficient to fill up a much brighter history , for its adventures and incidents , than any i ever say in print ; but i shall have occasion to say more of him hereafter .
we parted at last , though with the utmost reluctance on my side ; and indeed he took his leave very unwillingly too , but necessity obliged him , for his reasons were very good why he would not come to london , as i understood more fully some time afterwards .
i gave him a direction how to write to me , though still i reserved the grand secret , and never broke my resolution , which was not to let him ever know my true name , who i was , or where to be found ; he likewise let me know how to write a letter to him , so that , he said , he would be sure to receive it .
i came to london the next day after we parted , but did not go directly to my old lodgings ; but for another nameless reason took a private lodging in st. john 's street , or , as it is vulgarly called , st. jones 's , near clerkenwell ; and here , being perfectly alone , i had leisure to sit down and reflect seriously upon the last seven months ' ramble i had made , for i had been abroad no less .
the pleasant hours i had with my last husband i looked back on with an infinite deal of pleasure ; but that pleasure was very much lessened when i found some time after that i was really with child .
this was a perplexing thing , because of the difficulty which was before me where i should get leave to lie in ; it being one of the nicest things in the world at that time of day for a woman that was a stranger , and had no friends , to be entertained in that circumstance without security , which , by the way , i had not , neither could i procure any .
i had taken care all this while to preserve a correspondence with my honest friend at the bank , or rather he took care to correspond with me , for he wrote to me once a week ; and though i had not spent my money so fast as to want any from him , yet i often wrote also to let him know i was alive .
i had left directions in lancashire , so that i had these letters , which he sent , conveyed to me ; and during my recess at st. jones 's received a very obliging letter from him , assuring me that his process for a divorce from his wife went on with success , though he met with some difficulties in it that he did not expect .
i was not displeased with the news that his process was more tedious than he expected ; for though i was in no condition to have him yet , not being so foolish to marry him when i knew myself to be with child by another man , as some i know have ventured to do , yet i was not willing to lose him , and , in a word , resolved to have him if he continued in the same mind , as soon as i was up again ; for i saw apparently i should hear no more from my husband ; and as he had all along pressed to marry , and had assured me he would not be at all disgusted at it , or ever offer to claim me again , so i made no scruple to resolve to do it if i could , and if my other friend stood to his bargain ; and i had a great deal of reason to be assured that he would stand to it , by the letters he wrote to me , which were the kindest and most obliging that could be .
i now grew big , and the people where i lodged perceived it , and began to take notice of it to me , and , as far as civility would allow , intimated that i must think of removing .
this put me to extreme perplexity , and i grew very melancholy , for indeed i knew not what course to take . i had money , but no friends , and was like to have a child upon my hands to keep , which was a difficulty i had never had upon me yet , as the particulars of my story hitherto make appear .
in the course of this affair i fell very ill , and my melancholy really increased my distemper ; my illness proved at length to be only an ague , but my apprehensions were really that i should miscarry .
i should not say apprehensions , for indeed i would have been glad to miscarry , but i could never be brought to entertain so much as a thought of endeavouring to miscarry , or of taking any thing to make me miscarry ; i abhorred , i say , so much as the thought of it .
however , speaking of it in the house , the gentlewoman who kept the house proposed to me to send for a midwife .
i scrupled it at first , but after some time consented to it , but told her i had no particular acquaintance with any midwife , and so left it to her .
it seems the mistress of the house was not so great a stranger to such cases as mine was as i thought at first she had been , as will appear presently , and she sent for a midwife of the right sort--that is to say , the right sort for me .
the woman appeared to be an experienced woman in her business , i mean as a midwife ; but she had another calling too , in which she was as expert as most women if not more .
my landlady had told her i was very melancholy , and that she believed that had done me harm ; and once , before me , said to her , ' mrs. b---- ' ( meaning the midwife ) , ' i believe this lady 's trouble is of a kind that is pretty much in your way , and therefore if you can do anything for her , pray do , for she is a very civil gentlewoman ' ; and so she went out of the room .
i really did not understand her , but my mother midnight began very seriously to explain what she mean , as soon as she was gone .
'madam , ' says she , ' you seem not to understand what your landlady means ; and when you do understand it , you need not let her know at all that you do so .
'she means that you are under some circumstances that may render your lying in difficult to you , and that you are not willing to be exposed . i need say no more , but to tell you , that if you think fit to communicate so much of your case to me , if it be so , as is necessary , for i do not desire to pry into those things , i perhaps may be in a position to help you and to make you perfectly easy , and remove all your dull thoughts upon that subject . '
every word this creature said was a cordial to me , and put new life and new spirit into my heart ; my blood began to circulate immediately , and i was quite another body ; i ate my victuals again , and grew better presently after it .
she said a great deal more to the same purpose , and then , having pressed me to be free with her , and promised in the solemnest manner to be secret , she stopped a little , as if waiting to see what impression it made on me , and what i would say .
i was too sensible to the want i was in of such a woman , not to accept her offer ; i told her my case was partly as she guessed , and partly not , for i was really married , and had a husband , though he was in such fine circumstances and so remote at that time , as that he could not appear publicly .
she took me short , and told me that was none of her business ; all the ladies that came under her care were married women to her .
'every woman , ' she says , ' that is with child has a father for it , ' and whether that father was a husband or no husband , was no business of hers ; her business was to assist me in my present circumstances , whether i had a husband or no .
'for , madam , ' says she , ' to have a husband that cannot appear , is to have no husband in the sense of the case ; and , therefore , whether you are a wife or a mistress is all one to me . '
i found presently , that whether i was a whore or a wife , i was to pass for a whore here , so i let that go .
i told her it was true , as she said , but that , however , if i must tell her my case , i must tell it her as it was ; so i related it to her as short as i could , and i concluded it to her thus .
'i trouble you with all this , madam , ' said i , ' not that , as you said before , it is much to the purpose in your affair , but this is to the purpose , namely , that i am not in any pain about being seen , or being public or concealed , for ' tis perfectly indifferent to me ; but my difficulty is , that i have no acquaintance in this part of the nation . '
'i understand you , madam ' says she ; ' you have no security to bring to prevent the parish impertinences usual in such cases , and perhaps , ' says she , ' do not know very well how to dispose of the child when it comes . '
'the last , ' says i , ' is not so much my concern as the first . '
'well , madam , ' answered the midwife , ' dare you put yourself into my hands ?
i live in such a place ; though i do not inquire after you , you may inquire after me . my name is b---- ; i live in such a street ' --naming the street-- ' at the sign of the cradle . my profession is a midwife , and i have many ladies that come to my house to lie in . i have given security to the parish in general terms to secure them from any charge from whatsoever shall come into the world under my roof .
i have but one question to ask in the whole affair , madam , ' says she , ' and if that be answered you shall be entirely easy for all the rest . '
i presently understood what she meant , and told her , ' madam , i believe i understand you .
i thank god , though i want friends in this part of the world , i do not want money , so far as may be necessary , though i do not abound in that neither ' : this i added because i would not make her expect great things .
'well , madam , ' says she , ' that is the thing indeed , without which nothing can be done in these cases ; and yet , ' says she , ' you shall see that i will not impose upon you , or offer anything that is unkind to you , and if you desire it , you shall know everything beforehand , that you may suit yourself to the occasion , and be neither costly or sparing as you see fit . '
i told her she seemed to be so perfectly sensible of my condition , that i had nothing to ask of her but this , that as i had told her that i had money sufficient , but not a great quantity , she would order it so that i might be at as little superfluous charge as possible .
she replied that she would bring in an account of the expenses of it in two or three shapes , and like a bill of fare , i should choose as i pleased ; and i desired her to do so .
the next day she brought it , and the copy of her three bills was a follows : --
1 .
for three months ' lodging in her house , including my diet , at 10s. a week . . . . . . . . . . . 6 # , 0s . , 0d .
2 .
for a nurse for the month , and use of childbed linen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1 # , 10s . , 0d . 3 .
for a minister to christen the child , and to the godfathers and clerk . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 # , 10s . , 0d .
4 .
for a supper at the christening if i had five friends at it . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 # , 0s . , 0d .
for her fees as a midwife , and the taking off the trouble of the parish . . . . . . . . . . . .
3 # , 3s . , 0d . to her maid servant attending . . . . . . . .
0 # , 10s . , 0d . -------------- 13 # , 13s . , 0d . this was the first bill ; the second was the same terms : --
1 .
for three months ' lodging and diet , etc . , at 20s. per week . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 # , 0s . , 0d .
2 .
for a nurse for the month , and the use of linen and lace . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 # , 10s . , 0d .
3 .
for the minister to christen the child , etc . , as above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 # , 0s . , 0d .
4 .
for supper and for sweetmeats . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 # , 3s . , 0d .
for her fees as above . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 # , 5s . , 0d .
for a servant-maid . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 # , 0s . , 0d . -------------- 26 # , 18s . , 0d .
this was the second-rate bill ; the third , she said , was for a degree higher , and when the father or friends appeared : --
1 .
for three months ' lodging and diet , having two rooms and a garret for a servant . . . . . . 30 # , 0s . , 0d . ,
2 .
for a nurse for the month , and the finest suit of childbed linen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 # , 4s . , 0d .
3 .
for the minister to christen the child , etc . 2 # , 10s . , 0d .
4 .
for a supper , the gentlemen to send in the wine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 # , 0s . , 0d .
for my fees , etc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 # , 10s . , 0d .
the maid , besides their own maid , only . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 # , 10s . , 0d . -------------- 53 # , 14s . , 0d .
i looked upon all three bills , and smiled , and told her i did not see but that she was very reasonable in her demands , all things considered , and for that i did not doubt but her accommodations were good .
she told me i should be judge of that when i saw them . i told her i was sorry to tell her that i feared i must be her lowest-rated customer .
'and perhaps , madam , ' said i , ' you will make me the less welcome upon that account . '
'no , not at all , ' said she ; ' for where i have one of the third sort i have two of the second , and four to one of the first , and i get as much by them in proportion as by any ; but if you doubt my care of you , i will allow any friend you have to overlook and see if you are well waited on or no . '
then she explained the particulars of her bill .
'in the first place , madam , ' said she , ' i would have you observe that here is three months ' keeping ; you are but ten shillings a week ; i undertake to say you will not complain of my table . i suppose , ' says she , ' you do not live cheaper where you are now ? '
'no , indeed , ' said i , ' not so cheap , for i give six shillings per week for my chamber , and find my own diet as well as i can , which costs me a great deal more . '
'then , madam , ' says she , ' if the child should not live , or should be dead-born , as you know sometimes happens , then there is the minister 's article saved ; and if you have no friends to come to you , you may save the expense of a supper ; so that take those articles out , madam , ' says she , ' your lying in will not cost you above # 5 , 3s. in all more than your ordinary charge of living . '
this was the most reasonable thing that i ever heard of ; so i smiled , and told her i would come and be her customer ; but i told her also , that as i had two months and more to do , i might perhaps be obliged to stay longer with her than three months , and desired to know if she would not be obliged to remove me before it was proper . no , she said ; her house was large , and besides , she never put anybody to remove , that had lain in , till they were willing to go ; and if she had more ladies offered , she was not so ill-beloved among her neighbours but she could provide accommodations for twenty , if there was occasion .
i found she was an eminent lady in her way ; and , in short , i agreed to put myself into her hands , and promised her . she then talked of other things , looked about into my accommodations where i was , found fault with my wanting attendance and conveniences , and that i should not be used so at her house .
i told her i was shy of speaking , for the woman of the house looked stranger , or at least i thought so , since i had been ill , because i was with child ; and i was afraid she would put some affront or other upon me , supposing that i had been able to give but a slight account of myself .
'oh dear , ' said she , ' her ladyship is no stranger to these things ; she has tried to entertain ladies in your condition several times , but she could not secure the parish ; and besides , she is not such a nice lady as you take her to be ; however , since you are a-going , you shall not meddle with her , but i 'll see you are a little better looked after while you are here than i think you are , and it shall not cost you the more neither . '
i did not understand her at all ; however , i thanked her , and so we parted .
the next morning she sent me a chicken roasted and hot , and a pint bottle of sherry , and ordered the maid to tell me that she was to wait on me every day as long as i stayed there .
this was surprisingly good and kind , and i accepted it very willingly . at night she sent to me again , to know if i wanted anything , and how i did , and to order the maid to come to her in the morning with my dinner . the maid had orders to make me some chocolate in the morning before she came away , and did so , and at noon she brought me the sweetbread of a breast of veal , whole , and a dish of soup for my dinner ; and after this manner she nursed me up at a distance , so that i was mightily well pleased , and quickly well , for indeed my dejections before were the principal part of my illness .
i expected , as is usually the case among such people , that the servant she sent me would have been some imprudent brazen wench of drury lane breeding , and i was very uneasy at having her with me upon that account ; so i would not let her lie in that house the first night by any means , but had my eyes about me as narrowly as if she had been a public thief .
my gentlewoman guessed presently what was the matter , and sent her back with a short note , that i might depend upon the honesty of her maid ; that she would be answerable for her upon all accounts ; and that she took no servants into her house without very good security for their fidelity .
i was then perfectly easy ; and indeed the maid 's behaviour spoke for itself , for a modester , quieter , soberer girl never came into anybody 's family , and i found her so afterwards .
as soon as i was well enough to go abroad , i went with the maid to see the house , and to see the apartment i was to have ; and everything was so handsome and so clean and well , that , in short , i had nothing to say , but was wonderfully pleased and satisfied with what i had met with , which , considering the melancholy circumstances i was in , was far beyond what i looked for .
it might be expected that i should give some account of the nature of the wicked practices of this woman , in whose hands i was now fallen ; but it would be too much encouragement to the vice , to let the world see what easy measures were here taken to rid the women 's unwelcome burthen of a child clandestinely gotten .
this grave matron had several sorts of practice , and this was one particular , that if a child was born , though not in her house ( for she had occasion to be called to many private labours ) , she had people at hand , who for a piece of money would take the child off their hands , and off from the hands of the parish too ; and those children , as she said , were honestly provided for and taken care of . what should become of them all , considering so many , as by her account she was concerned with , i cannot conceive .
i had many times discourses upon that subject with her ; but she was full of this argument , that she save the life of many an innocent lamb , as she called them , which would otherwise perhaps have been murdered ; and of many women who , made desperate by the misfortune , would otherwise be tempted to destroy their children , and bring themselves to the gallows .
i granted her that this was true , and a very commendable thing , provided the poor children fell into good hands afterwards , and were not abused , starved , and neglected by the nurses that bred them up .
she answered , that she always took care of that , and had no nurses in her business but what were very good , honest people , and such as might be depended upon .
i could say nothing to the contrary , and so was obliged to say , ' madam , i do not question you do your part honestly , but what those people do afterwards is the main question ' ; and she stopped my mouth again with saying that she took the utmost care about it .
the only thing i found in all her conversation on these subjects that gave me any distaste , was , that one time in discouraging about my being far gone with child , and the time i expected to come , she said something that looked as if she could help me off with my burthen sooner , if i was willing ; or , in english , that she could give me something to make me miscarry , if i had a desire to put an end to my troubles that way ; but i soon let her see that i abhorred the thoughts of it ; and , to do her justice , she put it off so cleverly , that i could not say she really intended it , or whether she only mentioned the practice as a horrible thing ; for she couched her words so well , and took my meaning so quickly , that she gave her negative before i could explain myself .
to bring this part into as narrow a compass as possible , i quitted my lodging at st. jones 's and went to my new governess , for so they called her in the house , and there i was indeed treated with so much courtesy , so carefully looked to , so handsomely provided , and everything so well , that i was surprised at it , and could not at first see what advantage my governess made of it ; but i found afterwards that she professed to make no profit of lodgers ' diet , nor indeed could she get much by it , but that her profit lay in the other articles of her management , and she made enough that way , i assure you ; for ' tis scarce credible what practice she had , as well abroad as at home , and yet all upon the private account , or , in plain english , the whoring account .
while i was in her house , which was near four months , she had no less than twelve ladies of pleasure brought to bed within the doors , and i think she had two-and-thirty , or thereabouts , under her conduct without doors , whereof one , as nice as she was with me , was lodged with my old landlady at st. jones 's .
while i was there , and before i was brought to bed , i received a letter from my trustee at the bank , full of kind , obliging things , and earnestly pressing me to return to london .
it was near a fortnight old when it came to me , because it had been first sent into lancashire , and then returned to me . he concludes with telling me that he had obtained a decree , i think he called it , against his wife , and that he would be ready to make good his engagement to me , if i would accept of him , adding a great many protestations of kindness and affection , such as he would have been far from offering if he had known the circumstances i had been in , and which as it was i had been very far from deserving .
i returned an answer to his letter , and dated it at liverpool , but sent it by messenger , alleging that it came in cover to a friend in town .
i gave him joy of his deliverance , but raised some scruples at the lawfulness of his marrying again , and told him i supposed he would consider very seriously upon that point before he resolved on it , the consequence being too great for a man of his judgment to venture rashly upon a thing of that nature ; so concluded , wishing him very well in whatever he resolved , without letting him into anything of my own mind , or giving any answer to his proposal of my coming to london to him , but mentioned at a distance my intention to return the latter end of the year , this being dated in april .
i was brought to bed about the middle of may and had another brave boy , and myself in as good condition as usual on such occasions . my governess did her part as a midwife with the greatest art and dexterity imaginable , and far beyond all that ever i had had any experience of before .
her care of me in my travail , and after in my lying in , was such , that if she had been my own mother it could not have been better .
let none be encouraged in their loose practices from this dexterous lady 's management , for she is gone to her place , and i dare say has left nothing behind her that can or will come up on it .
i think i had been brought to bed about twenty-two days when i received another letter from my friend at the bank , with the surprising news that he had obtained a final sentence of divorce against his wife , and had served her with it on such a day , and that he had such an answer to give to all my scruples about his marrying again , as i could not expect , and as he had no desire of ; for that his wife , who had been under some remorse before for her usage of him , as soon as she had the account that he had gained his point , had very unhappily destroyed herself that same evening .
he expressed himself very handsomely as to his being concerned at her disaster , but cleared himself of having any hand in it , and that he had only done himself justice in a case in which he was notoriously injured and abused . however , he said that he was extremely afflicted at it , and had no view of any satisfaction left in his world , but only in the hope that i would come and relieve him by my company ; and then he pressed me violently indeed to give him some hopes that i would at least come up to town and let him see me , when he would further enter into discourse about it .
i was exceedingly surprised at the news , and began now seriously to reflect on my present circumstances , and the inexpressible misfortune it was to me to have a child upon my hands , and what to do in it i knew not .
at last i opened my case at a distance to my governess .
i appeared melancholy and uneasy for several days , and she lay at me continually to know what trouble me . i could not for my life tell her that i had an offer of marriage , after i had so often told her that i had a husband , so that i really knew not what to say to her . i owned i had something which very much troubled me , but at the same time told her i could not speak of it to any one alive .
she continued importuning me several days , but it was impossible , i told her , for me to commit the secret to anybody .
this , instead of being an answer to her , increased her importunities ; she urged her having been trusted with the greatest secrets of this nature , that it was her business to conceal everything , and that to discover things of that nature would be her ruin . she asked me if ever i had found her tattling to me of other people 's affairs , and how could i suspect her ?
she told me , to unfold myself to her was telling it to nobody ; that she was silent as death ; that it must be a very strange case indeed that she could not help me out of ; but to conceal it was to deprive myself of all possible help , or means of help , and to deprive her of the opportunity of serving me .
in short , she had such a bewitching eloquence , and so great a power of persuasion that there was no concealing anything from her .
so i resolved to unbosom myself to her . i told her the history of my lancashire marriage , and how both of us had been disappointed ; how we came together , and how we parted ; how he absolutely discharged me , as far as lay in him , free liberty to marry again , protesting that if he knew it he would never claim me , or disturb or expose me ; that i thought i was free , but was dreadfully afraid to venture , for fear of the consequences that might follow in case of a discovery .
then i told her what a good offer i had ; showed her my friend 's two last letters , inviting me to come to london , and let her see with what affection and earnestness they were written , but blotted out the name , and also the story about the disaster of his wife , only that she was dead .
she fell a-laughing at my scruples about marrying , and told me the other was no marriage , but a cheat on both sides ; and that , as we were parted by mutual consent , the nature of the contract was destroyed , and the obligation was mutually discharged .
she had arguments for this at the tip of her tongue ; and , in short , reasoned me out of my reason ; not but that it was too by the help of my own inclination .
but then came the great and main difficulty , and that was the child ; this , she told me in so many words , must be removed , and that so as that it should never be possible for any one to discover it .
i knew there was no marrying without entirely concealing that i had had a child , for he would soon have discovered by the age of it that it was born , nay , and gotten too , since my parley with him , and that would have destroyed all the affair .
but it touched my heart so forcibly to think of parting entirely with the child , and , for aught i knew , of having it murdered , or starved by neglect and ill-usage ( which was much the same ) , that i could not think of it without horror .
all those things represented themselves to my view , and that is the blackest and most frightful form : and as i was very free with my governess , whom i had now learned to call mother , i represented to her all the dark thoughts which i had upon me about it , and told her what distress i was in .
she seemed graver by much at this part than at the other ; but as she was hardened in these things beyond all possibility of being touched with the religious part , and the scruples about the murder , so she was equally impenetrable in that part which related to affection .
she asked me if she had not been careful and tender to me in my lying in , as if i had been her own child .
i told her i owned she had .
'well , my dear , ' says she , ' and when you are gone , what are you to me ?
and what would it be to me if you were to be hanged ?
do you think there are not women who , as it is their trade and they get their bread by it , value themselves upon their being as careful of children as their own mothers can be , and understand it rather better ?
yes , yes , child , ' says she , ' fear it not ; how were we nursed ourselves ?
are you sure you was nursed up by your own mother ? and yet you look fat and fair , child , ' says the old beldam ; and with that she stroked me over the face .
'never be concerned , child , ' says she , going on in her drolling way ; ' i have no murderers about me ; i employ the best and the honestest nurses that can be had , and have as few children miscarry under their hands as there would if they were all nursed by mothers ; we want neither care nor skill . '
she touched me to the quick when she asked if i was sure that i was nursed by my own mother ; on the contrary i was sure i was not ; and i trembled , and looked pale at the very expression .
'sure , ' said i to myself , ' this creature cannot be a witch , or have any conversation with a spirit , that can inform her what was done with me before i was able to know it myself ' ; and i looked at her as if i had been frightened ; but reflecting that it could not be possible for her to know anything about me , that disorder went off , and i began to be easy , but it was not presently .
she perceived the disorder i was in , but did not know the meaning of it ; so she ran on in her wild talk upon the weakness of my supposing that children were murdered because they were not all nursed by the mother , and to persuade me that the children she disposed of were as well used as if the mothers had the nursing of them themselves .
'it may be true , mother , ' says i , ' for aught i know , but my doubts are very strongly grounded indeed . '
'come , then , ' says she , ' let 's hear some of them . '
'why , first , ' says i , ' you give a piece of money to these people to take the child off the parent 's hands , and to take care of it as long as it lives .
now we know , mother , ' said i , ' that those are poor people , and their gain consists in being quit of the charge as soon as they can ; how can i doubt but that , as it is best for them to have the child die , they are not over solicitous about life ? '
'this is all vapours and fancy , ' says the old woman ; ' i tell you their credit depends upon the child 's life , and they are as careful as any mother of you all . '
'o mother , ' says i , ' if i was but sure my little baby would be carefully looked to , and have justice done it , i should be happy indeed ; but it is impossible i can be satisfied in that point unless i saw it , and to see it would be ruin and destruction to me , as now my case stands ; so what to do i know not . '
'a fine story ! ' says the governess .
'you would see the child , and you would not see the child ; you would be concealed and discovered both together . these are things impossible , my dear ; so you must e 'en do as other conscientious mothers have done before you , and be contented with things as they must be , though they are not as you wish them to be . '
i understood what she meant by conscientious mothers ; she would have said conscientious whores , but she was not willing to disoblige me , for really in this case i was not a whore , because legally married , the force of former marriage excepted .
however , let me be what i would , i was not come up to that pitch of hardness common to the profession ; i mean , to be unnatural , and regardless of the safety of my child ; and i preserved this honest affection so long , that i was upon the point of giving up my friend at the bank , who lay so hard at me to come to him and marry him , that , in short , there was hardly any room to deny him .
at last my old governess came to me , with her usual assurance .
'come , my dear , ' says she , ' i have found out a way how you shall be at a certainty that your child shall be used well , and yet the people that take care of it shall never know you , or who the mother of the child is . '
'oh mother , ' says i , ' if you can do so , you will engage me to you for ever . '
'well , ' says she , ' are you willing to be a some small annual expense , more than what we usually give to the people we contract with ? '
'ay , ' says i , ' with all my heart , provided i may be concealed . '
'as to that , ' says the governess , ' you shall be secure , for the nurse shall never so much as dare to inquire about you , and you shall once or twice a year go with me and see your child , and see how ' tis used , and be satisfied that it is in good hands , nobody knowing who you are . '
'why , ' said i , ' do you think , mother , that when i come to see my child , i shall be able to conceal my being the mother of it ?
do you think that possible ? '
'well , well , ' says my governess , ' if you discover it , the nurse shall be never the wiser ; for she shall be forbid to ask any questions about you , or to take any notice . if she offers it , she shall lose the money which you are suppose to give her , and the child shall be taken from her too . '
i was very well pleased with this . so the next week a countrywoman was brought from hertford , or thereabouts , who was to take the child off our hands entirely for # 10 in money . but if i would allow # 5 a year more of her , she would be obliged to bring the child to my governess 's house as often as we desired , or we should come down and look at it , and see how well she used it .
the woman was very wholesome-looking , a likely woman , a cottager 's wife , but she had very good clothes and linen , and everything well about her ; and with a heavy heart and many a tear , i let her have my child .
i had been down at hertford , and looked at her and at her dwelling , which i liked well enough ; and i promised her great things if she would be kind to the child , so she knew at first word that i was the child 's mother .
but she seemed to be so much out of the way , and to have no room to inquire after me , that i thought i was safe enough .
so , in short , i consented to let her have the child , and i gave her # 10 ; that is to say , i gave it to my governess , who gave it the poor woman before my face , she agreeing never to return the child back to me , or to claim anything more for its keeping or bringing up ; only that i promised , if she took a great deal of care of it , i would give her something more as often as i came to see it ; so that i was not bound to pay the # 5 , only that i promised my governess i would do it .
and thus my great care was over , after a manner , which though it did not at all satisfy my mind , yet was the most convenient for me , as my affairs then stood , of any that could be thought of at that time .
i then began to write to my friend at the bank in a more kindly style , and particularly about the beginning of july i sent him a letter , that i proposed to be in town some time in august . he returned me an answer in the most passionate terms imaginable , and desired me to let him have timely notice , and he would come and meet me , two day 's journey .
this puzzled me scurvily , and i did not know what answer to make of it .
once i resolved to take the stage-coach to west chester , on purpose only to have the satisfaction of coming back , that he might see me really come in the same coach ; for i had a jealous thought , though i had no ground for it at all , lest he should think i was not really in the country . and it was no ill-grounded thought as you shall hear presently .
i endeavoured to reason myself out of it , but it was in vain ; the impression lay so strong on my mind , that it was not to be resisted .
at last it came as an addition to my new design of going into the country , that it would be an excellent blind to my old governess , and would cover entirely all my other affairs , for she did not know in the least whether my new lover lived in london or in lancashire ; and when i told her my resolution , she was fully persuaded it was in lancashire .
having taken my measure for this journey i let her know it , and sent the maid that tended me , from the beginning , to take a place for me in the coach . she would have had me let the maid have waited on me down to the last stage , and come up again in the waggon , but i convinced her it would not be convenient .
when i went away , she told me she would enter into no measures for correspondence , for she saw evidently that my affection to my child would cause me to write to her , and to visit her too when i came to town again .
i assured her it would , and so took my leave , well satisfied to have been freed from such a house , however good my accommodations there had been , as i have related above .
i took the place in the coach not to its full extent , but to a place called stone , in cheshire , i think it is , where i not only had no manner of business , but not so much as the least acquaintance with any person in the town or near it . but i knew that with money in the pocket one is at home anywhere ; so i lodged there two or three days , till , watching my opportunity , i found room in another stage-coach , and took passage back again for london , sending a letter to my gentleman that i should be such a certain day at stony-stratford , where the coachman told me he was to lodge .
it happened to be a chance coach that i had taken up , which , having been hired on purpose to carry some gentlemen to west chester who were going for ireland , was now returning , and did not tie itself to exact times or places as the stages did ; so that , having been obliged to lie still on sunday , he had time to get himself ready to come out , which otherwise he could not have done .
however , his warning was so short , that he could not reach to stony-stratford time enough to be with me at night , but he met me at a place called brickhill the next morning , as we were just coming in to tow .
i confess i was very glad to see him , for i had thought myself a little disappointed over-night , seeing i had gone so far to contrive my coming on purpose .
he pleased me doubly too by the figure he came in , for he brought a very handsome ( gentleman 's ) coach and four horses , with a servant to attend him .
he took me out of the stage-coach immediately , which stopped at an inn in brickhill ; and putting into the same inn , he set up his own coach , and bespoke his dinner .
i asked him what he meant by that , for i was for going forward with the journey . he said , no , i had need of a little rest upon the road , and that was a very good sort of a house , though it was but a little town ; so we would go no farther that night , whatever came of it .
i did not press him much , for since he had come so to meet me , and put himself to so much expense , it was but reasonable i should oblige him a little too ; so i was easy as to that point .
after dinner we walked to see the town , to see the church , and to view the fields , and the country , as is usual for strangers to do ; and our landlord was our guide in going to see the church .
i observed my gentleman inquired pretty much about the parson , and i took the hint immediately that he certainly would propose to be married ; and though it was a sudden thought , it followed presently , that , in short , i would not refuse him ; for , to be plain , with my circumstances i was in no condition now to say no ; i had no reason now to run any more such hazards .
but while these thoughts ran round in my head , which was the work but of a few moments , i observed my landlord took him aside and whispered to him , though not very softly neither , for so much i overheard : ' sir , if you shall have occasion---- ' the rest i could not hear , but it seems it was to this purpose : ' sir , if you shall have occasion for a minister , i have a friend a little way off that will serve you , and be as private as you please . '
my gentleman answered loud enough for me to hear , ' very well , i believe i shall . '
i was no sooner come back to the inn but he fell upon me with irresistible words , that since he had had the good fortune to meet me , and everything concurred , it would be hastening his felicity if i would put an end to the matter just there .
'what do you mean ? ' says i , colouring a little .
'what , in an inn , and upon the road !
bless us all , ' said i , as if i had been surprised , ' how can you talk so ? '
'oh , i can talk so very well , ' says he , ' i came a-purpose to talk so , and i 'll show you that i did ' ; and with that he pulls out a great bundle of papers .
'you fright me , ' said i ; ' what are all these ? '
'don 't be frighted , my dear , ' said he , and kissed me .
this was the first time that he had been so free to call me ' my dear ' ; then he repeated it , ' don 't be frighted ; you shall see what it is all ' ; then he laid them all abroad .
there was first the deed or sentence of divorce from his wife , and the full evidence of her playing the whore ; then there were the certificates of the minister and churchwardens of the parish where she lived , proving that she was buried , and intimating the manner of her death ; the copy of the coroner 's warrant for a jury to sit upon her , and the verdict of the jury , who brought it in non compos mentis .
all this was indeed to the purpose , and to give me satisfaction , though , by the way , i was not so scrupulous , had he known all , but that i might have taken him without it .
however , i looked them all over as well as i could , and told him that this was all very clear indeed , but that he need not have given himself the trouble to have brought them out with him , for it was time enough .
well , he said , it might be time enough for me , but no time but the present time was time enough for him .
there were other papers rolled up , and i asked him what they were .
'why , ay , ' says he , ' that 's the question i wanted to have you ask me ' ; so he unrolls them and takes out a little shagreen case , and gives me out of it a very fine diamond ring .
i could not refuse it , if i had a mind to do so , for he put it upon my finger ; so i made him a curtsy and accepted it .
then he takes out another ring : ' and this , ' says he , ' is for another occasion , ' so he puts that in his pocket .
'well , but let me see it , though , ' says i , and smiled ; ' i guess what it is ; i think you are mad . '
'i should have been mad if i had done less , ' says he , and still he did not show me , and i had a great mind to see it ; so i says , ' well , but let me see it . '
'hold , ' says he , ' first look here ' ; then he took up the roll again and read it , and behold ! it was a licence for us to be married .
'why , ' says i , ' are you distracted ?
why , you were fully satisfied that i would comply and yield at first word , or resolved to take no denial . '
'the last is certainly the case , ' said he .
'but you may be mistaken , ' said i .
'no , no , ' says he , ' how can you think so ?
i must not be denied , i can 't be denied ' ; and with that he fell to kissing me so violently , i could not get rid of him .
there was a bed in the room , and we were walking to and again , eager in the discourse ; at last he takes me by surprise in his arms , and threw me on the bed and himself with me , and holding me fast in his arms , but without the least offer of any indecency , courted me to consent with such repeated entreaties and arguments , protesting his affection , and vowing he would not let me go till i had promised him , that at last i said , ' why , you resolve not to be denied , indeed , i can 't be denied . '
'well , well , ' said i , and giving him a slight kiss , ' then you shan 't be denied , ' said i ; ' let me get up . '
he was so transported with my consent , and the kind manner of it , that i began to think once he took it for a marriage , and would not stay for the form ; but i wronged him , for he gave over kissing me , and then giving me two or three kisses again , thanked me for my kind yielding to him ; and was so overcome with the satisfaction and joy of it , that i saw tears stand in his eyes .
i turned from him , for it filled my eyes with tears too , and i asked him leave to retire a little to my chamber .
if ever i had a grain of true repentance for a vicious and abominable life for twenty-four years past , it was then .
on , what a felicity is it to mankind , said i to myself , that they cannot see into the hearts of one another !
how happy had it been for me if i had been wife to a man of so much honesty , and so much affection from the beginning !
then it occurred to me , ' what an abominable creature am i ! and how is this innocent gentleman going to be abused by me !
how little does he think , that having divorced a whore , he is throwing himself into the arms of another ! that he is going to marry one that has lain with two brothers , and has had three children by her own brother ! one that was born in newgate , whose mother was a whore , and is now a transported thief ! one that has lain with thirteen men , and has had a child since he saw me !
poor gentleman ! ' said i , ' what is he going to do ? '
after this reproaching myself was over , it following thus : ' well , if i must be his wife , if it please god to give me grace , i 'll be a true wife to him , and love him suitably to the strange excess of his passion for me ; i will make him amends if possible , by what he shall see , for the cheats and abuses i put upon him , which he does not see . '
he was impatient for my coming out of my chamber , but finding me long , he went downstairs and talked with my landlord about the parson .
my landlord , an officious though well-meaning fellow , had sent away for the neighbouring clergyman ; and when my gentleman began to speak of it to him , and talk of sending for him , ' sir , ' says he to him , ' my friend is in the house ' ; so without any more words he brought them together .
when he came to the minister , he asked him if he would venture to marry a couple of strangers that were both willing .
the parson said that mr. ---- had said something to him of it ; that he hoped it was no clandestine business ; that he seemed to be a grave gentleman , and he supposed madam was not a girl , so that the consent of friends should be wanted .
'to put you out of doubt of that , ' says my gentleman , ' read this paper ' ; and out he pulls the license .
'i am satisfied , ' says the minister ; ' where is the lady ? '
'you shall see her presently , ' says my gentleman .
when he had said thus he comes upstairs , and i was by that time come out of my room ; so he tells me the minister was below , and that he had talked with him , and that upon showing him the license , he was free to marry us with all his heart , ' but he asks to see you ' ; so he asked if i would let him come up .
" tis time enough , ' said i , ' in the morning , is it not ? '
'why , ' said he , ' my dear , he seemed to scruple whether it was not some young girl stolen from her parents , and i assured him we were both of age to command our own consent ; and that made him ask to see you . '
'well , ' said i , ' do as you please ' ; so up they brings the parson , and a merry , good sort of gentleman he was .
he had been told , it seems , that we had met there by accident , that i came in the chester coach , and my gentleman in his own coach to meet me ; that we were to have met last night at stony-stratford , but that he could not reach so far .
'well , sir , ' says the parson , ' every ill turn has some good in it . the disappointment , sir , ' says he to my gentleman , ' was yours , and the good turn is mine , for if you had met at stony-stratford i had not had the honour to marry you .
landlord , have you a common prayer book ? '
i started as if i had been frightened .
'lord , sir , ' says i , ' what do you mean ?
what , to marry in an inn , and at night too ? '
'madam , ' says the minister , ' if you will have it be in the church , you shall ; but i assure you your marriage will be as firm here as in the church ; we are not tied by the canons to marry nowhere but in the church ; and if you will have it in the church , it will be a public as a county fair ; and as for the time of day , it does not at all weigh in this case ; our princes are married in their chambers , and at eight or ten o 'clock at night . '
i was a great while before i could be persuaded , and pretended not to be willing at all to be married but in the church . but it was all grimace ; so i seemed at last to be prevailed on , and my landlord and his wife and daughter were called up .
my landlord was father and clerk and all together , and we were married , and very merry we were ; though i confess the self-reproaches which i had upon me before lay close to me , and extorted every now and then a deep sigh from me , which my bridegroom took notice of , and endeavoured to encourage me , thinking , poor man , that i had some little hesitations at the step i had taken so hastily .
we enjoyed ourselves that evening completely , and yet all was kept so private in the inn that not a servant in the house knew of it , for my landlady and her daughter waited on me , and would not let any of the maids come upstairs , except while we were at supper .
my landlady 's daughter i called my bridesmaid ; and sending for a shopkeeper the next morning , i gave the young woman a good suit of knots , as good as the town would afford , and finding it was a lace-making town , i gave her mother a piece of bone-lace for a head .
one reason that my landlord was so close was , that he was unwilling the minister of the parish should hear of it ; but for all that somebody heard of it , so at that we had the bells set a-ringing the next morning early , and the music , such as the town would afford , under our window ; but my landlord brazened it out , that we were married before we came thither , only that , being his former guests , we would have our wedding-supper at his house .
we could not find in our hearts to stir the next day ; for , in short , having been disturbed by the bells in the morning , and having perhaps not slept overmuch before , we were so sleepy afterwards that we lay in bed till almost twelve o 'clock .
i begged my landlady that we might not have any more music in the town , nor ringing of bells , and she managed it so well that we were very quiet ; but an odd passage interrupted all my mirth for a good while .
the great room of the house looked into the street , and my new spouse being belowstairs , i had walked to the end of the room ; and it being a pleasant , warm day , i had opened the window , and was standing at it for some air , when i saw three gentlemen come by on horseback and go into an inn just against us .
it was not to be concealed , nor was it so doubtful as to leave me any room to question it , but the second of the three was my lancashire husband .
i was frightened to death ; i never was in such a consternation in my life ; i though i should have sunk into the ground ; my blood ran chill in my veins , and i trembled as if i had been in a cold fit of ague .
i say , there was no room to question the truth of it ; i knew his clothes , i knew his horse , and i knew his face .
the first sensible reflect i made was , that my husband was not by to see my disorder , and that i was very glad of it .
the gentlemen had not been long in the house but they came to the window of their room , as is usual ; but my window was shut , you may be sure .
however , i could not keep from peeping at them , and there i saw him again , heard him call out to one of the servants of the house for something he wanted , and received all the terrifying confirmations of its being the same person that were possible to be had .
my next concern was to know , if possible , what was his business there ; but that was impossible .
sometimes my imagination formed an idea of one frightful thing , sometimes of another ; sometime i thought he had discovered me , and was come to upbraid me with ingratitude and breach of honour ; and every moment i fancied he was coming up the stairs to insult me ; and innumerable fancies came into my head of what was never in his head , nor ever could be , unless the devil had revealed it to him .
i remained in this fright nearly two hours , and scarce ever kept my eye from the window or door of the inn where they were .
at last , hearing a great clatter in the passage of their inn , i ran to the window , and , to my great satisfaction , saw them all three go out again and travel on westward . had they gone towards london , i should have been still in a fright , lest i should meet him on the road again , and that he should know me ; but he went the contrary way , and so i was eased of that disorder .
we resolved to be going the next day , but about six o 'clock at night we were alarmed with a great uproar in the street , and people riding as if they had been out of their wits ; and what was it but a hue-and-cry after three highwaymen that had robbed two coaches and some other travellers near dunstable hill , and notice had , it seems , been given that they had been seen at brickhill at such a house , meaning the house where those gentlemen had been .
the house was immediately beset and searched , but there were witnesses enough that the gentlemen had been gone over three hours .
the crowd having gathered about , we had the news presently ; and i was heartily concerned now another way .
i presently told the people of the house , that i durst to say those were not the persons , for that i knew one of the gentlemen to be a very honest person , and of a good estate in lancashire .
the constable who came with the hue-and-cry was immediately informed of this , and came over to me to be satisfied from my own mouth , and i assured him that i saw the three gentlemen as i was at the window ; that i saw them afterwards at the windows of the room they dined in ; that i saw them afterwards take horse , and i could assure him i knew one of them to be such a man , that he was a gentleman of a very good estate , and an undoubted character in lancashire , from whence i was just now upon my journey .
the assurance with which i delivered this gave the mob gentry a check , and gave the constable such satisfaction , that he immediately sounded a retreat , told his people these were not the men , but that he had an account they were very honest gentlemen ; and so they went all back again .
what the truth of the matter was i knew not , but certain it was that the coaches were robbed at dunstable hill , and # 560 in money taken ; besides , some of the lace merchants that always travel that way had been visited too .
as to the three gentlemen , that remains to be explained hereafter .
well , this alarm stopped us another day , though my spouse was for travelling , and told me that it was always safest travelling after a robbery , for that the thieves were sure to be gone far enough off when they had alarmed the country ; but i was afraid and uneasy , and indeed principally lest my old acquaintance should be upon the road still , and should chance to see me .
i never lived four pleasanter days together in my life . i was a mere bride all this while , and my new spouse strove to make me entirely easy in everything .
oh could this state of life have continued , how had all my past troubles been forgot , and my future sorrows avoided ! but i had a past life of a most wretched kind to account for , some if it in this world as well as in another .
we came away the fifth day ; and my landlord , because he saw me uneasy , mounted himself , his son , and three honest country fellows with good firearms , and , without telling us of it , followed the coach , and would see us safe into dunstable .
we could do no less than treat them very handsomely at dunstable , which cost my spouse about ten or twelve shillings , and something he gave the men for their time too , but my landlord would take nothing for himself .
this was the most happy contrivance for me that could have fallen out ; for had i come to london unmarried , i must either have come to him for the first night 's entertainment , or have discovered to him that i had not one acquaintance in the whole city of london that could receive a poor bride for the first night 's lodging with her spouse .
but now , being an old married woman , i made no scruple of going directly home with him , and there i took possession at once of a house well furnished , and a husband in very good circumstances , so that i had a prospect of a very happy life , if i knew how to manage it ; and i had leisure to consider of the real value of the life i was likely to live . how different it was to be from the loose ungoverned part i had acted before , and how much happier a life of virtue and sobriety is , than that which we call a life of pleasure .
oh had this particular scene of life lasted , or had i learned from that time i enjoyed it , to have tasted the true sweetness of it , and had i not fallen into that poverty which is the sure bane of virtue , how happy had i been , not only here , but perhaps for ever ! for while i lived thus , i was really a penitent for all my life past .
i looked back on it with abhorrence , and might truly be said to hate myself for it .
i often reflected how my lover at the bath , struck at the hand of god , repented and abandoned me , and refused to see me any more , though he loved me to an extreme ; but i , prompted by that worst of devils , poverty , returned to the vile practice , and made the advantage of what they call a handsome face to be the relief to my necessities , and beauty be a pimp to vice .
now i seemed landed in a safe harbour , after the stormy voyage of life past was at an end , and i began to be thankful for my deliverance . i sat many an hour by myself , and wept over the remembrance of past follies , and the dreadful extravagances of a wicked life , and sometimes i flattered myself that i had sincerely repented . but there are temptations which it is not in the power of human nature to resist , and few know what would be their case if driven to the same exigencies . as covetousness is the root of all evil , so poverty is , i believe , the worst of all snares . but i waive that discourse till i come to an experiment . i lived with this husband with the utmost tranquillity ; he was a quiet , sensible , sober man ; virtuous , modest , sincere , and in his business diligent and just . his business was in a narrow compass , and his income sufficient to a plentiful way of living in the ordinary way . i do not say to keep an equipage , and make a figure , as the world calls it , nor did i expect it , or desire it ; for as i abhorred the levity and extravagance of my former life , so i chose now to live retired , frugal , and within ourselves . i kept no company , made no visits ; minded my family , and obliged my husband ; and this kind of life became a pleasure to me .
we lived in an uninterrupted course of ease and content for five years , when a sudden blow from an almost invisible hand blasted all my happiness , and turned me out into the world in a condition the reverse of all that had been before it .
my husband having trusted one of his fellow-clerks with a sum of money , too much for our fortunes to bear the loss of , the clerk failed , and the loss fell very heavy on my husband , yet it was not so great neither but that , if he had had spirit and courage to have looked his misfortunes in the face , his credit was so good that , as i told him , he would easily recover it ; for to sink under trouble is to double the weight , and he that will die in it , shall die in it .
it was in vain to speak comfortably to him ; the wound had sunk too deep ; it was a stab that touched the vitals ; he grew melancholy and disconsolate , and from thence lethargic , and died .
i foresaw the blow , and was extremely oppressed in my mind , for i saw evidently that if he died i was undone .
i had had two children by him and no more , for , to tell the truth , it began to be time for me to leave bearing children , for i was now eight-and-forty , and i suppose if he had lived i should have had no more .
i was now left in a dismal and disconsolate case indeed , and in several things worse than ever .
first , it was past the flourishing time with me when i might expect to be courted for a mistress ; that agreeable part had declined some time , and the ruins only appeared of what had been ; and that which was worse than all this , that i was the most dejected , disconsolate creature alive . i that had encouraged my husband , and endeavoured to support his spirits under his trouble , could not support my own ; i wanted that spirit in trouble which i told him was so necessary to him for bearing the burthen .
but my case was indeed deplorable , for i was left perfectly friendless and helpless , and the loss my husband had sustained had reduced his circumstances so low , that though indeed i was not in debt , yet i could easily foresee that what was left would not support me long ; that while it wasted daily for subsistence , i had not way to increase it one shilling , so that it would be soon all spent , and then i saw nothing before me but the utmost distress ; and this represented itself so lively to my thoughts , that it seemed as if it was come , before it was really very near ; also my very apprehensions doubled the misery , for i fancied every sixpence that i paid for a loaf of bread was the last that i had in the world , and that to-morrow i was to fast , and be starved to death .
in this distress i had no assistant , no friend to comfort or advise me ; i sat and cried and tormented myself night and day , wringing my hands , and sometimes raving like a distracted woman ; and indeed i have often wondered it had not affected my reason , for i had the vapours to such a degree , that my understanding was sometimes quite lost in fancies and imaginations .
i lived two years in this dismal condition , wasting that little i had , weeping continually over my dismal circumstances , and , as it were , only bleeding to death , without the least hope or prospect of help from god or man ; and now i had cried too long , and so often , that tears were , as i might say , exhausted , and i began to be desperate , for i grew poor apace .
for a little relief i had put off my house and took lodgings ; and as i was reducing my living , so i sold off most of my goods , which put a little money in my pocket , and i lived near a year upon that , spending very sparingly , and eking things out to the utmost ; but still when i looked before me , my very heart would sink within me at the inevitable approach of misery and want .
oh let none read this part without seriously reflecting on the circumstances of a desolate state , and how they would grapple with mere want of friends and want of bread ; it will certainly make them think not of sparing what they have only , but of looking up to heaven for support , and of the wise man 's prayer , ' give me not poverty , lest i steal . '
let them remember that a time of distress is a time of dreadful temptation , and all the strength to resist is taken away ; poverty presses , the soul is made desperate by distress , and what can be done ?
it was one evening , when being brought , as i may say , to the last gasp , i think i may truly say i was distracted and raving , when prompted by i know not what spirit , and , as it were , doing i did not know what or why , i dressed me ( for i had still pretty good clothes ) and went out .
i am very sure i had no manner of design in my head when i went out ; i neither knew nor considered where to go , or on what business ; but as the devil carried me out and laid his bait for me , so he brought me , to be sure , to the place , for i knew not whither i was going or what i did .
wandering thus about , i knew not whither , i passed by an apothecary 's shop in leadenhall street , when i saw lie on a stool just before the counter a little bundle wrapped in a white cloth ; beyond it stood a maid-servant with her back to it , looking towards the top of the shop , where the apothecary 's apprentice , as i suppose , was standing upon the counter , with his back also to the door , and a candle in his hand , looking and reaching up to the upper shelf for something he wanted , so that both were engaged mighty earnestly , and nobody else in the shop .
this was the bait ; and the devil , who i said laid the snare , as readily prompted me as if he had spoke , for i remember , and shall never forget it , ' twas like a voice spoken to me over my shoulder , ' take the bundle ; be quick ; do it this moment . '
it was no sooner said but i stepped into the shop , and with my back to the wench , as if i had stood up for a cart that was going by , i put my hand behind me and took the bundle , and went off with it , the maid or the fellow not perceiving me , or any one else .
it is impossible to express the horror of my soul all the while i did it .
when i went away i had no heart to run , or scarce to mend my pace . i crossed the street indeed , and went down the first turning i came to , and i think it was a street that went through into fenchurch street . from thence i crossed and turned through so many ways and turnings , that i could never tell which way it was , not where i went ; for i felt not the ground i stepped on , and the farther i was out of danger , the faster i went , till , tired and out of breath , i was forced to sit down on a little bench at a door , and then i began to recover , and found i was got into thames street , near billingsgate .
i rested me a little and went on ; my blood was all in a fire ; my heart beat as if i was in a sudden fright . in short , i was under such a surprise that i still knew not wither i was going , or what to do .
after i had tired myself thus with walking a long way about , and so eagerly , i began to consider and make home to my lodging , where i came about nine o 'clock at night .
when the bundle was made up for , or on what occasion laid where i found it , i knew not , but when i came to open it i found there was a suit of childbed-linen in it , very good and almost new , the lace very fine ; there was a silver porringer of a pint , a small silver mug and six spoons , with some other linen , a good smock , and three silk handkerchiefs , and in the mug , wrapped up in a paper , 18s .
6d. in money . all the while i was opening these things i was under such dreadful impressions of fear , and i such terror of mind , though i was perfectly safe , that i cannot express the manner of it .
i sat me down , and cried most vehemently . ' lord , ' said i , ' what am i now ? a thief !
why , i shall be taken next time , and be carried to newgate and be tried for my life ! '
and with that i cried again a long time , and i am sure , as poor as i was , if i had durst for fear , i would certainly have carried the things back again ; but that went off after a while .
well , i went to bed for that night , but slept little ; the horror of the fact was upon my mind , and i knew not what i said or did all night , and all the next day .
then i was impatient to hear some news of the loss ; and would fain know how it was , whether they were a poor body 's goods , or a rich . ' perhaps , ' said i , ' it may be some poor widow like me , that had packed up these goods to go and sell them for a little bread for herself and a poor child , and are now starving and breaking their hearts for want of that little they would have fetched . ' and this thought tormented me worse than all the rest , for three or four days ' time .
but my own distresses silenced all these reflections , and the prospect of my own starving , which grew every day more frightful to me , hardened my heart by degrees .
it was then particularly heavy upon my mind , that i had been reformed , and had , as i hoped , repented of all my past wickedness ; that i had lived a sober , grave , retired life for several years , but now i should be driven by the dreadful necessity of my circumstances to the gates of destruction , soul and body ; and two or three times i fell upon my knees , praying to god , as well as i could , for deliverance ; but i cannot but say , my prayers had no hope in them . i knew not what to do ; it was all fear without , and dark within ; and i reflected on my past life as not sincerely repented of , that heaven was now beginning to punish me on this side the grave , and would make me as miserable as i had been wicked .
had i gone on here i had perhaps been a true penitent ; but i had an evil counsellor within , and he was continually prompting me to relieve myself by the worst means ; so one evening he tempted me again , by the same wicked impulse that had said ' take that bundle , ' to go out again and seek for what might happen .
i went out now by daylight , and wandered about i knew not whither , and in search of i knew not what , when the devil put a snare in my way of a dreadful nature indeed , and such a one as i have never had before or since .
going through aldersgate street , there was a pretty little child who had been at a dancing-school , and was going home , all alone ; and my prompter , like a true devil , set me upon this innocent creature .
i talked to it , and it prattled to me again , and i took it by the hand and led it along till i came to a paved alley that goes into bartholomew close , and i led it in there .
the child said that was not its way home .
i said , ' yes , my dear , it is ; i 'll show you the way home . '
the child had a little necklace on of gold beads , and i had my eye upon that , and in the dark of the alley i stooped , pretending to mend the child 's clog that was loose , and took off her necklace , and the child never felt it , and so led the child on again .
here , i say , the devil put me upon killing the child in the dark alley , that it might not cry , but the very thought frighted me so that i was ready to drop down ; but i turned the child about and bade it go back again , for that was not its way home . the child said , so she would , and i went through into bartholomew close , and then turned round to another passage that goes into st. john street ; then , crossing into smithfield , went down chick lane and into field lane to holborn bridge , when , mixing with the crowd of people usually passing there , it was not possible to have been found out ; and thus i enterprised my second sally into the world .
the thoughts of this booty put out all the thoughts of the first , and the reflections i had made wore quickly off ; poverty , as i have said , hardened my heart , and my own necessities made me regardless of anything .
the last affair left no great concern upon me , for as i did the poor child no harm , i only said to myself , i had given the parents a just reproof for their negligence in leaving the poor little lamb to come home by itself , and it would teach them to take more care of it another time .
this string of beads was worth about twelve or fourteen pounds .
i suppose it might have been formerly the mother 's , for it was too big for the child 's wear , but that perhaps the vanity of the mother , to have her child look fine at the dancing-school , had made her let the child wear it ; and no doubt the child had a maid sent to take care of it , but she , careless jade , was taken up perhaps with some fellow that had met her by the way , and so the poor baby wandered till it fell into my hands .
however , i did the child no harm ; i did not so much as fright it , for i had a great many tender thoughts about me yet , and did nothing but what , as i may say , mere necessity drove me to .
i had a great many adventures after this , but i was young in the business , and did not know how to manage , otherwise than as the devil put things into my head ; and indeed he was seldom backward to me .
one adventure i had which was very lucky to me .
i was going through lombard street in the dusk of the evening , just by the end of three king court , when on a sudden comes a fellow running by me as swift as lightning , and throws a bundle that was in his hand , just behind me , as i stood up against the corner of the house at the turning into the alley .
just as he threw it in he said , ' god bless you , mistress , let it lie there a little , ' and away he runs swift as the wind .
after him comes two more , and immediately a young fellow without his hat , crying ' stop thief ! ' and after him two or three more .
they pursued the two last fellows so close , that they were forced to drop what they had got , and one of them was taken into the bargain , and other got off free .
i stood stock-still all this while , till they came back , dragging the poor fellow they had taken , and lugging the things they had found , extremely well satisfied that they had recovered the booty and taken the thief ; and thus they passed by me , for i looked only like one who stood up while the crowd was gone .
once or twice i asked what was the matter , but the people neglected answering me , and i was not very importunate ; but after the crowd was wholly past , i took my opportunity to turn about and take up what was behind me and walk away . this , indeed , i did with less disturbance than i had done formerly , for these things i did not steal , but they were stolen to my hand . i got safe to my lodgings with this cargo , which was a piece of fine black lustring silk , and a piece of velvet ; the latter was but part of a piece of about eleven yards ; the former was a whole piece of near fifty yards .
it seems it was a mercer 's shop that they had rifled . i say rifled , because the goods were so considerable that they had lost ; for the goods that they recovered were pretty many , and i believe came to about six or seven several pieces of silk . how they came to get so many i could not tell ; but as i had only robbed the thief , i made no scruple at taking these goods , and being very glad of them too .
i had pretty good luck thus far , and i made several adventures more , though with but small purchase , yet with good success , but i went in daily dread that some mischief would befall me , and that i should certainly come to be hanged at last .
the impression this made on me was too strong to be slighted , and it kept me from making attempts that , for ought i knew , might have been very safely performed ; but one thing i cannot omit , which was a bait to me many a day .
i walked frequently out into the villages round the town , to see if nothing would fall in my way there ; and going by a house near stepney , i saw on the window-board two rings , one a small diamond ring , and the other a gold ring , to be sure laid there by some thoughtless lady , that had more money then forecast , perhaps only till she washed her hands .
i walked several times by the window to observe if i could see whether there was anybody in the room or no , and i could see nobody , but still i was not sure . it came presently into my thoughts to rap at the glass , as if i wanted to speak with somebody , and if anybody was there they would be sure to come to the window , and then i would tell them to remove those rings , for that i had seen two suspicious fellows take notice of them .
this was a ready thought . i rapped once or twice and nobody came , when , seeing the coast clear , i thrust hard against the square of the glass , and broke it with very little noise , and took out the two rings , and walked away with them very safe .
the diamond ring was worth about # 3 , and the other about 9s . i was now at a loss for a market for my goods , and especially for my two pieces of silk .
i was very loth to dispose of them for a trifle , as the poor unhappy thieves in general do , who , after they have ventured their lives for perhaps a thing of value , are fain to sell it for a song when they have done ; but i was resolved i would not do thus , whatever shift i made , unless i was driven to the last extremity . however , i did not well know what course to take .
at last i resolved to go to my old governess , and acquaint myself with her again .
i had punctually supplied the # 5 a year to her for my little boy as long as i was able , but at last was obliged to put a stop to it .
however , i had written a letter to her , wherein i had told her that my circumstances were reduced very low ; that i had lost my husband , and that i was not able to do it any longer , and so begged that the poor child might not suffer too much for its mother 's misfortunes .
i now made her a visit , and i found that she drove something of the old trade still , but that she was not in such flourishing circumstances as before ; for she had been sued by a certain gentleman who had had his daughter stolen from him , and who , it seems , she had helped to convey away ; and it was very narrowly that she escaped the gallows .
the expense also had ravaged her , and she was become very poor ; her house was but meanly furnished , and she was not in such repute for her practice as before ; however , she stood upon her legs , as they say , and a she was a stirring , bustling woman , and had some stock left , she was turned pawnbroker , and lived pretty well .
she received me very civilly , and with her usual obliging manner told me she would not have the less respect for me for my being reduced ; that she had taken care my boy was very well looked after , though i could not pay for him , and that the woman that had him was easy , so that i needed not to trouble myself about him till i might be better able to do it effectually .
i told her that i had not much money left , but that i had some things that were money 's worth , if she could tell me how i might turn them into money .
she asked me what it was i had .
i pulled out the string of gold beads , and told her it was one of my husband 's presents to me ; then i showed her the two parcels of silk , which i told her i had from ireland , and brought up to town with me ; and the little diamond ring .
as to the small parcel of plate and spoons , i had found means to dispose of them myself before ; and as for the childbed-linen i had , she offered me to take it herself , believing it to have been my own .
she told me that she was turned pawnbroker , and that she would sell those things for me as pawn to her ; and so she sent presently for proper agents that bought them , being in her hands , without any scruple , and gave good prices too .
i now began to think this necessary woman might help me a little in my low condition to some business , for i would gladly have turned my hand to any honest employment if i could have got it . but here she was deficient ; honest business did not come within her reach .
if i had been younger , perhaps she might have helped me to a spark , but my thoughts were off that kind of livelihood , as being quite out of the way after fifty , which was my case , and so i told her .
she invited me at last to come , and be at her house till i could find something to do , and it should cost me very little , and this i gladly accepted of . and now living a little easier , i entered into some measures to have my little son by my last husband taken off ; and this she made easy too , reserving a payment only of # 5 a year , if i could pay it .
this was such a help to me , that for a good while i left off the wicked trade that i had so newly taken up ; and gladly i would have got my bread by the help of my needle if i could have got work , but that was very hard to do for one that had no manner of acquaintance in the world .
however , at last i got some quilting work for ladies ' beds , petticoats , and the like ; and this i liked very well , and worked very hard , and with this i began to live ; but the diligent devil , who resolved i should continue in his service , continually prompted me to go out and take a walk , that is to say , to see if anything would offer in the old way .
one evening i blindly obeyed his summons , and fetched a long circuit through the streets , but met with no purchase , and came home very weary and empty ; but not content with that , i went out the next evening too , when going by an alehouse i saw the door of a little room open , next the very street , and on the table a silver tankard , things much in use in public-houses at that time .
it seems some company had been drinking there , and the careless boys had forgot to take it away .
i went into the box frankly , and setting the silver tankard on the corner of the bench , i sat down before it , and knocked with my foot ; a boy came presently , and i bade him fetch me a pint of warm ale , for it was cold weather ; the boy ran , and i heard him go down the cellar to draw the ale .
while the boy was gone , another boy came into the room , and cried , ' d ' ye call ? '
i spoke with a melancholy air , and said , ' no , child ; the boy is gone for a pint of ale for me . '
while i sat here , i heard the woman in the bar say , ' are they all gone in the five ? ' which was the box i sat in , and the boy said , ' yes . '
'who fetched the tankard away ? ' says the woman .
'i did , ' says another boy ; ' that 's it , ' pointing , it seems , to another tankard , which he had fetched from another box by mistake ; or else it must be , that the rogue forgot that he had not brought it in , which certainly he had not .
i heard all this , much to my satisfaction , for i found plainly that the tankard was not missed , and yet they concluded it was fetched away ; so i drank my ale , called to pay , and as i went away i said , ' take care of your plate , child , ' meaning a silver pint mug , which he brought me drink in .
the boy said , ' yes , madam , very welcome , ' and away i came .
i came home to my governess , and now i thought it was a time to try her , that if i might be put to the necessity of being exposed , she might offer me some assistance .
when i had been at home some time , and had an opportunity of talking to her , i told her i had a secret of the greatest consequence in the world to commit to her , if she had respect enough for me to keep it a secret .
she told me she had kept one of my secrets faithfully ; why should i doubt her keeping another ?
i told her the strangest thing in the world had befallen me , and that it had made a thief of me , even without any design , and so told her the whole story of the tankard .
'and have you brought it away with you , my dear ? ' says she .
'to be sure i have , ' says i , and showed it her .
'but what shall i do now , ' says i ; ' must not carry it again ? '
'carry it again ! ' says she .
'ay , if you are minded to be sent to newgate for stealing it . '
'why , ' says i , ' they can 't be so base to stop me , when i carry it to them again ? '
'you don 't know those sort of people , child , ' says she ; ' they 'll not only carry you to newgate , but hang you too , without any regard to the honesty of returning it ; or bring in an account of all the other tankards they have lost , for you to pay for . '
'what must i do , then ? ' says i .
'nay , ' says she , ' as you have played the cunning part and stole it , you must e 'en keep it ; there 's no going back now .
besides , child , ' says she , ' don 't you want it more than they do ?
i wish you could light of such a bargain once a week . '
this gave me a new notion of my governess , and that since she was turned pawnbroker , she had a sort of people about her that were none of the honest ones that i had met with there before .
i had not been long there but i discovered it more plainly than before , for every now and then i saw hilts of swords , spoons , forks , tankards , and all such kind of ware brought in , not to be pawned , but to be sold downright ; and she bought everything that came without asking any questions , but had very good bargains , as i found by her discourse .
i found also that in following this trade she always melted down the plate she bought , that it might not be challenged ; and she came to me and told me one morning that she was going to melt , and if i would , she would put my tankard in , that it might not be seen by anybody .
i told her , with all my heart ; so she weighed it , and allowed me the full value in silver again ; but i found she did not do the same to the rest of her customers .
some time after this , as i was at work , and very melancholy , she begins to ask me what the matter was , as she was used to do .
i told her my heart was heavy ; i had little work , and nothing to live on , and knew not what course to take .
she laughed , and told me i must go out again and try my fortune ; it might be that i might meet with another piece of plate .
'o mother ! ' says i , ' that is a trade i have no skill in , and if i should be taken i am undone at once . '
says she , ' i could help you to a schoolmistress that shall make you as dexterous as herself . '
i trembled at that proposal , for hitherto i had had no confederates , nor any acquaintance among that tribe .
but she conquered all my modesty , and all my fears ; and in a little time , by the help of this confederate , i grew as impudent a thief , and as dexterous as ever moll cutpurse was , though , if fame does not belie her , not half so handsome .
the comrade she helped me to dealt in three sorts of craft , viz. shoplifting , stealing of shop-books and pocket-books , and taking off gold watches from the ladies ' sides ; and this last she did so dexterously that no woman ever arrived to the performance of that art so as to do it like her . i liked the first and the last of these things very well , and i attended her some time in the practice , just as a deputy attends a midwife , without any pay .
at length she put me to practice .
she had shown me her art , and i had several times unhooked a watch from her own side with great dexterity . at last she showed me a prize , and this was a young lady big with child , who had a charming watch .
the thing was to be done as she came out of church . she goes on one side of the lady , and pretends , just as she came to the steps , to fall , and fell against the lady with so much violence as put her into a great fright , and both cried out terribly . in the very moment that she jostled the lady , i had hold of the watch , and holding it the right way , the start she gave drew the hook out , and she never felt it . i made off immediately , and left my schoolmistress to come out of her pretended fright gradually , and the lady too ; and presently the watch was missed .
'ay , ' says my comrade , ' then it was those rogues that thrust me down , i warrant ye ; i wonder the gentlewoman did not miss her watch before , then we might have taken them . '
she humoured the thing so well that nobody suspected her , and i was got home a full hour before her .
this was my first adventure in company . the watch was indeed a very fine one , and had a great many trinkets about it , and my governess allowed us # 20 for it , of which i had half .
and thus i was entered a complete thief , hardened to the pitch above all the reflections of conscience or modesty , and to a degree which i must acknowledge i never thought possible in me .
thus the devil , who began , by the help of an irresistible poverty , to push me into this wickedness , brought me on to a height beyond the common rate , even when my necessities were not so great , or the prospect of my misery so terrifying ; for i had now got into a little vein of work , and as i was not at a loss to handle my needle , it was very probable , as acquaintance came in , i might have got my bread honestly enough .
i must say , that if such a prospect of work had presented itself at first , when i began to feel the approach of my miserable circumstances--i say , had such a prospect of getting my bread by working presented itself then , i had never fallen into this wicked trade , or into such a wicked gang as i was now embarked with ; but practice had hardened me , and i grew audacious to the last degree ; and the more so because i had carried it on so long , and had never been taken ; for , in a word , my new partner in wickedness and i went on together so long , without being ever detected , that we not only grew bold , but we grew rich , and we had at one time one-and-twenty gold watches in our hands .
i remember that one day being a little more serious than ordinary , and finding i had so good a stock beforehand as i had , for i had near # 200 in money for my share , it came strongly into my mind , no doubt from some kind spirit , if such there be , that at first poverty excited me , and my distresses drove me to these dreadful shifts ; so seeing those distresses were now relieved , and i could also get something towards a maintenance by working , and had so good a bank to support me , why should i now not leave off , as they say , while i was well ? that i could not expect to go always free ; and if i was once surprised , and miscarried , i was undone .
this was doubtless the happy minute , when , if i had hearkened to the blessed hint , from whatsoever had it came , i had still a cast for an easy life .
but my fate was otherwise determined ; the busy devil that so industriously drew me in had too fast hold of me to let me go back ; but as poverty brought me into the mire , so avarice kept me in , till there was no going back .
as to the arguments which my reason dictated for persuading me to lay down , avarice stepped in and said , ' go on , go on ; you have had very good luck ; go on till you have gotten four or five hundred pounds , and they you shall leave off , and then you may live easy without working at all . '
thus i , that was once in the devil 's clutches , was held fast there as with a charm , and had no power to go without the circle , till i was engulfed in labyrinths of trouble too great to get out at all .
however , these thoughts left some impression upon me , and made me act with some more caution than before , and more than my directors used for themselves .
my comrade , as i called her , but rather she should have been called my teacher , with another of her scholars , was the first in the misfortune ; for , happening to be upon the hunt for purchase , they made an attempt upon a linen-draper in cheapside , but were snapped by a hawk 's-eyed journeyman , and seized with two pieces of cambric , which were taken also upon them .
this was enough to lodge them both in newgate , where they had the misfortune to have some of their former sins brought to remembrance . two other indictments being brought against them , and the facts being proved upon them , they were both condemned to die . they both pleaded their bellies , and were both voted quick with child ; though my tutoress was no more with child than i was .
i went frequently to see them , and condole with them , expecting that it would be my turn next ; but the place gave me so much horror , reflecting that it was the place of my unhappy birth , and of my mother 's misfortunes , and that i could not bear it , so i was forced to leave off going to see them .
and oh ! could i have but taken warning by their disasters , i had been happy still , for i was yet free , and had nothing brought against me ; but it could not be , my measure was not yet filled up .
my comrade , having the brand of an old offender , was executed ; the young offender was spared , having obtained a reprieve , but lay starving a long while in prison , till at last she got her name into what they call a circuit pardon , and so came off .
this terrible example of my comrade frighted me heartily , and for a good while i made no excursions ; but one night , in the neighbourhood of my governess 's house , they cried ' fire . '
my governess looked out , for we were all up , and cried immediately that such a gentlewoman 's house was all of a light fire atop , and so indeed it was .
here she gives me a job .
'now , child , ' says she , ' there is a rare opportunity , for the fire being so near that you may go to it before the street is blocked up with the crowd . '
she presently gave me my cue .
'go , child , ' says she , ' to the house , and run in and tell the lady , or anybody you see , that you come to help them , and that you came from such a gentlewoman ( that is , one of her acquaintance farther up the street )  . '
she gave me the like cue to the next house , naming another name that was also an acquaintance of the gentlewoman of the house . away i went , and , coming to the house , i found them all in confusion , you may be sure .
i ran in , and finding one of the maids , ' lord ! sweetheart , ' says i , ' how came this dismal accident ?
where is your mistress ?
any how does she do ? is she safe ?
and where are the children ?
i come from madam ---- to help you . '
away runs the maid .
'madam , madam , ' says she , screaming as loud as she could yell , ' here is a gentlewoman come from madam ---- to help us . '
the poor woman , half out of her wits , with a bundle under her arm , an two little children , comes toward me .
'lord ! madam , ' says i , ' let me carry the poor children to madam ---- , ' she desires you to send them ; she 'll take care of the poor lambs ; ' and immediately i takes one of them out of her hand , and she lifts the other up into my arms .
'ay , do , for god 's sake , ' says she , ' carry them to her .
oh ! thank her for her kindness . '
'have you anything else to secure , madam ? ' says i ; ' she will take care of it . '
'oh dear ! ay , ' says she , ' god bless her , and thank her .
take this bundle of plate and carry it to her too .
oh , she is a good woman .
oh lord ! we are utterly ruined , utterly undone ! '
and away she runs from me out of her wits , and the maids after her ; and away comes i with the two children and the bundle .
i was no sooner got into the street but i saw another woman come to me .
'oh ! ' says she , ' mistress , ' in a piteous tone , ' you will let fall the child .
come , this is a sad time ; let me help you ' ; and immediately lays hold of my bundle to carry it for me .
'no , ' says i ; ' if you will help me , take the child by the hand , and lead it for me but to the upper end of the street ; i 'll go with you and satisfy you for your pains . '
she could not avoid going , after what i said ; but the creature , in short , was one of the same business with me , and wanted nothing but the bundle ; however , she went with me to the door , for she could not help it .
when we were come there i whispered her , ' go , child , ' said i , ' i understand your trade ; you may meet with purchase enough . '
she understood me and walked off .
i thundered at the door with the children , and as the people were raised before by the noise of the fire , i was soon let in , and i said , ' is madam awake ?
pray tell her mrs. ---- desires the favour of her to take the two children in ; poor lady , she will be undone , their house is all of a flame , '
they took the children in very civilly , pitied the family in distress , and away came i with my bundle .
one of the maids asked me if i was not to leave the bundle too .
i said , ' no , sweetheart , ' tis to go to another place ; it does not belong to them . '
i was a great way out of the hurry now , and so i went on , clear of anybody 's inquiry , and brought the bundle of plate , which was very considerable , straight home , and gave it to my old governess . she told me she would not look into it , but bade me go out again to look for more .
she gave me the like cue to the gentlewoman of the next house to that which was on fire , and i did my endeavour to go , but by this time the alarm of fire was so great , and so many engines playing , and the street so thronged with people , that i could not get near the house whatever i would do ; so i came back again to my governess 's , and taking the bundle up into my chamber , i began to examine it .
it is with horror that i tell what a treasure i found there ; ' tis enough to say , that besides most of the family plate , which was considerable , i found a gold chain , an old-fashioned thing , the locket of which was broken , so that i suppose it had not been used some years , but the gold was not the worse for that ; also a little box of burying-rings , the lady 's wedding-ring , and some broken bits of old lockets of gold , a gold watch , and a purse with about # 24 value in old pieces of gold coin , and several other things of value .
this was the greatest and the worst prize that ever i was concerned in ; for indeed , though , as i have said above , i was hardened now beyond the power of all reflection in other cases , yet it really touched me to the very soul when i looked into this treasure , to think of the poor disconsolate gentlewoman who had lost so much by the fire besides ; and who would think , to be sure , that she had saved her plate and best things ; how she would be surprised and afflicted when she should find that she had been deceived , and should find that the person that took her children and her goods , had not come , as was pretended , from the gentlewoman in the next street , but that the children had been put upon her without her own knowledge .
i say , i confess the inhumanity of this action moved me very much , and made me relent exceedingly , and tears stood in my eyes upon that subject ; but with all my sense of its being cruel and inhuman , i could never find in my heart to make any restitution .
the reflection wore off , and i began quickly to forget the circumstances that attended the taking them .
nor was this all ; for though by this job i was become considerably richer than before , yet the resolution i had formerly taken , of leaving off this horrid trade when i had gotten a little more , did not return , but i must still get farther , and more ; and the avarice joined so with the success , that i had no more thought of coming to a timely alteration of life , though without it i could expect no safety , no tranquillity in the possession of what i had so wickedly gained ; but a little more , and a little more , was the case still .
at length , yielding to the importunities of my crime , i cast off all remorse and repentance , and all the reflections on that head turned to no more than this , that i might perhaps come to have one booty more that might complete my desires ; but though i certainly had that one booty , yet every hit looked towards another , and was so encouraging to me to go on with the trade , that i had no gust to the thought of laying it down .
in this condition , hardened by success , and resolving to go on , i fell into the snare in which i was appointed to meet with my last reward for this kind of life .
but even this was not yet , for i met with several successful adventures more in this way of being undone .
i remained still with my governess , who was for a while really concerned for the misfortune of my comrade that had been hanged , and who , it seems , knew enough of my governess to have sent her the same way , and which made her very uneasy ; indeed , she was in a very great fright .
it is true that when she was gone , and had not opened mouth to tell what she knew , my governess was easy as to that point , and perhaps glad she was hanged , for it was in her power to have obtained a pardon at the expense of her friends ; but on the other hand , the loss of her , and the sense of her kindness in not making her market of what she knew , moved my governess to mourn very sincerely for her .
i comforted her as well as i could , and she in return hardened me to merit more completely the same fate .
however , as i have said , it made me the more wary , and particularly i was very shy of shoplifting , especially among the mercers and drapers , who are a set of fellows that have their eyes very much about them .
i made a venture or two among the lace folks and the milliners , and particularly at one shop where i got notice of two young women who were newly set up , and had not been bred to the trade . there i think i carried off a piece of bone-lace , worth six or seven pounds , and a paper of thread .
but this was but once ; it was a trick that would not serve again . it was always reckoned a safe job when we heard of a new shop , and especially when the people were such as were not bred to shops . such may depend upon it that they will be visited once or twice at their beginning , and they must be very sharp indeed if they can prevent it .
i made another adventure or two , but they were but trifles too , though sufficient to live on .
after this nothing considerable offering for a good while , i began to think that i must give over the trade in earnest ; but my governess , who was not willing to lose me , and expected great things of me , brought me one day into company with a young woman and a fellow that went for her husband , though as it appeared afterwards , she was not his wife , but they were partners , it seems , in the trade they carried on , and partners in something else .
in short , they robbed together , lay together , were taken together , and at last were hanged together .
i came into a kind of league with these two by the help of my governess , and they carried me out into three or four adventures , where i rather saw them commit some coarse and unhandy robberies , in which nothing but a great stock of impudence on their side , and gross negligence on the people 's side who were robbed , could have made them successful . so i resolved from that time forward to be very cautious how i adventured upon anything with them ; and indeed , when two or three unlucky projects were proposed by them , i declined the offer , and persuaded them against it .
one time they particularly proposed robbing a watchmaker of three gold watches , which they had eyed in the daytime , and found the place where he laid them . one of them had so many keys of all kinds , that he made no question to open the place where the watchmaker had laid them ; and so we made a kind of an appointment ; but when i came to look narrowly into the thing , i found they proposed breaking open the house , and this , as a thing out of my way , i would not embark in , so they went without me .
they did get into the house by main force , and broke up the locked place where the watches were , but found but one of the gold watches , and a silver one , which they took , and got out of the house again very clear . but the family , being alarmed , cried out ' thieves , ' and the man was pursued and taken ; the young woman had got off too , but unhappily was stopped at a distance , and the watches found upon her . and thus i had a second escape , for they were convicted , and both hanged , being old offenders , though but young people .
as i said before that they robbed together and lay together , so now they hanged together , and there ended my new partnership . i began now to be very wary , having so narrowly escaped a scouring , and having such an example before me ; but i had a new tempter , who prompted me every day--i mean my governess ; and now a prize presented , which as it came by her management , so she expected a good share of the booty .
there was a good quantity of flanders lace lodged in a private house , where she had gotten intelligence of it , and flanders lace being prohibited , it was a good booty to any custom-house officer that could come at it .
i had a full account from my governess , as well of the quantity as of the very place where it was concealed , and i went to a custom-house officer , and told him i had such a discovery to make to him of such a quantity of lace , if he would assure me that i should have my due share of the reward .
this was so just an offer , that nothing could be fairer ; so he agreed , and taking a constable and me with him , we beset the house .
as i told him i could go directly to the place , he left it to me ; and the hole being very dark , i squeezed myself into it , with a candle in my hand , and so reached the pieces out to him , taking care as i gave him some so to secure as much about myself as i could conveniently dispose of .
there was near # 300 worth of lace in the hole , and i secured about # 50 worth of it to myself .
the people of the house were not owners of the lace , but a merchant who had entrusted them with it ; so that they were not so surprised as i thought they would be .
i left the officer overjoyed with his prize , and fully satisfied with what he had got , and appointed to meet him at a house of his own directing , where i came after i had disposed of the cargo i had about me , of which he had not the least suspicion .
when i came to him he began to capitulate with me , believing i did not understand the right i had to a share in the prize , and would fain have put me off with # 20 , but i let him know that i was not so ignorant as he supposed i was ; and yet i was glad , too , that he offered to bring me to a certainty .
i asked # 100 , and he rose up to # 30 ; i fell to # 80 , and he rose again to # 40 ; in a word , he offered # 50 , and i consented , only demanding a piece of lace , which i though came to about # 8 or # 9 , as if it had been for my own wear , and he agreed to it .
so i got # 50 in money paid me that same night , and made an end of the bargain ; nor did he ever know who i was , or where to inquire for me , so that if it had been discovered that part of the goods were embezzled , he could have made no challenge upon me for it .
i very punctually divided this spoil with my governess , and i passed with her from this time for a very dexterous manager in the nicest cases .
i found that this last was the best and easiest sort of work that was in my way , and i made it my business to inquire out prohibited goods , and after buying some , usually betrayed them , but none of these discoveries amounted to anything considerable , not like that i related just now ; but i was willing to act safe , and was still cautious of running the great risks which i found others did , and in which they miscarried every day .
the next thing of moment was an attempt at a gentlewoman 's good watch .
it happened in a crowd , at a meeting-house , where i was in very great danger of being taken . i had full hold of her watch , but giving a great jostle , as if somebody had thrust me against her , and in the juncture giving the watch a fair pull , i found it would not come , so i let it go that moment , and cried out as if i had been killed , that somebody had trod upon my foot , and that there were certainly pickpockets there , for somebody or other had given a pull at my watch ; for you are to observe that on these adventures we always went very well dressed , and i had very good clothes on , and a gold watch by my side , as like a lady as other fold .
i had no sooner said so , but the other gentlewoman cried out ' a pickpocket ' too , for somebody , she said , had tried to pull her watch away .
when i touched her watch i was close to her , but when i cried out i stopped as it were short , and the crowd bearing her forward a little , she made a noise too , but it was at some distance from me , so that she did not in the least suspect me ; but when she cried out ' a pickpocket , ' somebody cried , ' ay , and here has been another ! this gentlewoman has been attempted too . '
at that very instance , a little farther in the crowd , and very luckily too , they cried out ' a pickpocket , ' again , and really seized a young fellow in the very act .
this , though unhappy for the wretch , was very opportunely for my case , though i had carried it off handsomely enough before ; but now it was out of doubt , and all the loose part of the crowd ran that way , and the poor boy was delivered up to the rage of the street , which is a cruelty i need not describe , and which , however , they are always glad of , rather than to be sent to newgate , where they lie often a long time , till they are almost perished , and sometimes they are hanged , and the best they can look for , if they are convicted , is to be transported .
this was a narrow escape to me , and i was so frighted that i ventured no more at gold watches a great while .
here she set up the same trade she had followed in ireland , in which she soon , by her admirable management and good tongue , arrived to the height which i have already described , and indeed began to be rich , though her trade fell off again afterwards , as i have hinted before . i mentioned thus much of the history of this woman here , the better to account for the concern she had in the wicked life i was now leading , into all the particulars of which she led me , as it were , by the hand , and gave me such directions , and i so well followed them , that i grew the greatest artist of my time and worked myself out of every danger with such dexterity , that when several more of my comrades ran themselves into newgate presently , and by that time they had been half a year at the trade , i had now practised upwards of five years , and the people at newgate did not so much as know me ; they had heard much of me indeed , and often expected me there , but i always got off , though many times in the extremest danger .
one of the greatest dangers i was now in , was that i was too well known among the trade , and some of them , whose hatred was owing rather to envy than any injury i had done them , began to be angry that i should always escape when they were always catched and hurried to newgate .
these were they that gave me the name of moll flanders ; for it was no more of affinity with my real name or with any of the name i had ever gone by , than black is of kin to white , except that once , as before , i called myself mrs. flanders ; when i sheltered myself in the mint ; but that these rogues never knew , nor could i ever learn how they came to give me the name , or what the occasion of it was .
i was soon informed that some of these who were gotten fast into newgate had vowed to impeach me ; and as i knew that two or three of them were but too able to do it , i was under a great concern about it , and kept within doors for a good while . but my governess--whom i always made partner in my success , and who now played a sure game with me , for that she had a share of the gain and no share in the hazard--i say , my governess was something impatient of my leading such a useless , unprofitable life , as she called it ; and she laid a new contrivance for my going abroad , and this was to dress me up in men 's clothes , and so put me into a new kind of practice .
i was tall and personable , but a little too smooth-faced for a man ; however , i seldom went abroad but in the night , it did well enough ; but it was a long time before i could behave in my new clothes--i mean , as to my craft . it was impossible to be so nimble , so ready , so dexterous at these things in a dress so contrary to nature ; and i did everything clumsily , so i had neither the success nor the easiness of escape that i had before , and i resolved to leave it off ; but that resolution was confirmed soon after by the following accident .
as my governess disguised me like a man , so she joined me with a man , a young fellow that was nimble enough at his business , and for about three weeks we did very well together .
our principal trade was watching shopkeepers ' counters , and slipping off any kind of goods we could see carelessly laid anywhere , and we made several good bargains , as we called them , at this work .
and as we kept always together , so we grew very intimate , yet he never knew that i was not a man , nay , though i several times went home with him to his lodgings , according as our business directed , and four or five times lay with him all night . but our design lay another way , and it was absolutely necessary to me to conceal my sex from him , as appeared afterwards .
the circumstances of our living , coming in late , and having such and such business to do as required that nobody should be trusted with the coming into our lodgings , were such as made it impossible to me to refuse lying with him , unless i would have owned my sex ; and as it was , i effectually concealed myself .
but his ill , and my good fortune , soon put an end to this life , which i must own i was sick of too , on several other accounts .
we had made several prizes in this new way of business , but the last would be extraordinary .
there was a shop in a certain street which had a warehouse behind it that looked into another street , the house making the corner of the turning .
through the window of the warehouse we saw , lying on the counter or showboard , which was just before it , five pieces of silks , besides other stuffs , and though it was almost dark , yet the people , being busy in the fore-shop with customers , had not had time to shut up those windows , or else had forgot it . this the young fellow was so overjoyed with , that he could not restrain himself .
it lay all within his reach he said , and he swore violently to me that he would have it , if he broke down the house for it . i dissuaded him a little , but saw there was no remedy ; so he ran rashly upon it , slipped out a square of the sash window dexterously enough , and without noise , and got out four pieces of the silks , and came with them towards me , but was immediately pursued with a terrible clutter and noise . we were standing together indeed , but i had not taken any of the goods out of his hand , when i said to him hastily , ' you are undone , fly , for god 's sake ! '
he ran like lightning , and i too , but the pursuit was hotter after him because he had the goods , than after me .
he dropped two of the pieces , which stopped them a little , but the crowd increased and pursued us both . they took him soon after with the other two pieces upon him , and then the rest followed me .
i ran for it and got into my governess 's house whither some quick-eyed people followed me to warmly as to fix me there . they did not immediately knock , at the door , by which i got time to throw off my disguise and dress me in my own clothes ; besides , when they came there , my governess , who had her tale ready , kept her door shut , and called out to them and told them there was no man come in there .
the people affirmed there did a man come in there , and swore they would break open the door . my governess , not at all surprised , spoke calmly to them , told them they should very freely come and search her house , if they should bring a constable , and let in none but such as the constable would admit , for it was unreasonable to let in a whole crowd .
this they could not refuse , though they were a crowd . so a constable was fetched immediately , and she very freely opened the door ; the constable kept the door , and the men he appointed searched the house , my governess going with them from room to room .
when she came to my room she called to me , and said aloud , ' cousin , pray open the door ; here 's some gentlemen that must come and look into your room . '
i had a little girl with me , which was my governess 's grandchild , as she called her ; and i bade her open the door , and there sat i at work with a great litter of things about me , as if i had been at work all day , being myself quite undressed , with only night-clothes on my head , and a loose morning-gown wrapped about me .
my governess made a kind of excuse for their disturbing me , telling me partly the occasion of it , and that she had no remedy but to open the doors to them , and let them satisfy themselves , for all she could say to them would not satisfy them .
i sat still , and bid them search the room if they pleased , for if there was anybody in the house , i was sure they were not in my room ; and as for the rest of the house , i had nothing to say to that , i did not understand what they looked for .
everything looked so innocent and to honest about me , that they treated me civiller than i expected , but it was not till they had searched the room to a nicety , even under the bed , in the bed , and everywhere else where it was possible anything could be hid . when they had done this , and could find nothing , they asked my pardon for troubling me , and went down .
when they had thus searched the house from bottom to top , and then top to bottom , and could find nothing , they appeased the mob pretty well ; but they carried my governess before the justice . two men swore that they saw the man whom they pursued go into her house . my governess rattled and made a great noise that her house should be insulted , and that she should be used thus for nothing ; that if a man did come in , he might go out again presently for aught she knew , for she was ready to make oath that no man had been within her doors all that day as she knew of ( and that was very true indeed ) ; that is might be indeed that as she was abovestairs , any fellow in a fright might find the door open and run in for shelter when he was pursued , but that she knew nothing of it ; and if it had been so , he certainly went out again , perhaps at the other door , for she had another door into an alley , and so had made his escape and cheated them all .
this was indeed probable enough , and the justice satisfied himself with giving her an oath that she had not received or admitted any man into her house to conceal him , or protect or hide him from justice . this oath she might justly take , and did so , and so she was dismissed .
it is easy to judge what a fright i was in upon this occasion , and it was impossible for my governess ever to bring me to dress in that disguise again ; for , as i told her , i should certainly betray myself .
my poor partner in this mischief was now in a bad case , for he was carried away before my lord mayor , and by his worship committed to newgate , and the people that took him were so willing , as well as able , to prosecute him , that they offered themselves to enter into recognisances to appear at the sessions and pursue the charge against him .
however , he got his indictment deferred , upon promise to discover his accomplices , and particularly the man that was concerned with him in his robbery ; and he failed not to do his endeavour , for he gave in my name , whom he called gabriel spencer , which was the name i went by to him ; and here appeared the wisdom of my concealing my name and sex from him , which , if he had ever known i had been undone .
he did all he could to discover this gabriel spencer ; he described me , he discovered the place where he said i lodged , and , in a word , all the particulars that he could of my dwelling ; but having concealed the main circumstances of my sex from him , i had a vast advantage , and he never could hear of me . he brought two or three families into trouble by his endeavouring to find me out , but they knew nothing of me , any more than that i had a fellow with me that they had seen , but knew nothing of . and as for my governess , though she was the means of his coming to me , yet it was done at second-hand , and he knew nothing of her .
this turned to his disadvantage ; for having promised discoveries , but not being able to make it good , it was looked upon as trifling with the justice of the city , and he was the more fiercely pursued by the shopkeepers who took him .
i was , however , terribly uneasy all this while , and that i might be quite out of the way , i went away from my governess 's for a while ; but not knowing wither to wander , i took a maid-servant with me , and took the stage-coach to dunstable , to my old landlord and landlady , where i had lived so handsomely with my lancashire husband . here i told her a formal story , that i expected my husband every day from ireland , and that i had sent a letter to him that i would meet him at dunstable at her house , and that he would certainly land , if the wind was fair , in a few days , so that i was come to spend a few days with them till he should come , for he was either come post , or in the west chester coach , i knew not which ; but whichsoever it was , he would be sure to come to that house to meet me .
my landlady was mighty glad to see me , and my landlord made such a stir with me , that if i had been a princess i could not have been better used , and here i might have been welcome a month or two if i had thought fit .
but my business was of another nature . i was very uneasy ( though so well disguised that it was scarce possible to detect me ) lest this fellow should somehow or other find me out ; and though he could not charge me with this robbery , having persuaded him not to venture , and having also done nothing in it myself but run away , yet he might have charged me with other things , and have bought his own life at the expense of mine .
this filled me with horrible apprehensions . i had no recourse , no friend , no confidante but my old governess , and i knew no remedy but to put my life in her hands , and so i did , for i let her know where to send to me , and had several letters from her while i stayed here .
some of them almost scared me out my wits but at last she sent me the joyful news that he was hanged , which was the best news to me that i had heard a great while .
i had stayed here five weeks , and lived very comfortably indeed ( the secret anxiety of my mind excepted ) ; but when i received this letter i looked pleasantly again , and told my landlady that i had received a letter from my spouse in ireland , that i had the good news of his being very well , but had the bad news that his business would not permit him to come away so soon as he expected , and so i was like to go back again without him .
my landlady complimented me upon the good news however , that i had heard he was well .
'for i have observed , madam , ' says she , ' you hadn 't been so pleasant as you used to be ; you have been over head and ears in care for him , i dare say , ' says the good woman ; " tis easy to be seen there 's an alteration in you for the better , ' says she .
'well , i am sorry the esquire can 't come yet , ' says my landlord ; ' i should have been heartily glad to have seen him . but i hope , when you have certain news of his coming , you 'll take a step hither again , madam , ' says he ; ' you shall be very welcome whenever you please to come . '
with all these fine compliments we parted , and i came merry enough to london , and found my governess as well pleased as i was .
and now she told me she would never recommend any partner to me again , for she always found , she said , that i had the best luck when i ventured by myself .
and so indeed i had , for i was seldom in any danger when i was by myself , or if i was , i got out of it with more dexterity than when i was entangled with the dull measures of other people , who had perhaps less forecast , and were more rash and impatient than i ; for though i had as much courage to venture as any of them , yet i used more caution before i undertook a thing , and had more presence of mind when i was to bring myself off .
i have often wondered even at my own hardiness another way , that when all my companions were surprised and fell so suddenly into the hand of justice , and that i so narrowly escaped , yet i could not all this while enter into one serious resolution to leave off this trade , and especially considering that i was now very far from being poor ; that the temptation of necessity , which is generally the introduction of all such wickedness , was now removed ; for i had near # 500 by me in ready money , on which i might have lived very well , if i had thought fit to have retired ; but i say , i had not so much as the least inclination to leave off ; no , not so much as i had before when i had but # 200 beforehand , and when i had no such frightful examples before my eyes as these were . from hence ' tis evident to me , that when once we are hardened in crime , no fear can affect us , no example give us any warning .
i had indeed one comrade whose fate went very near me for a good while , though i wore it off too in time .
that case was indeed very unhappy .
i had made a prize of a piece of very good damask in a mercer 's shop , and went clear off myself , but had conveyed the piece to this companion of mine when we went out of the shop , and she went one way and i went another .
we had not been long out of the shop but the mercer missed his piece of stuff , and sent his messengers , one one way and one another , and they presently seized her that had the piece , with the damask upon her . as for me , i had very luckily stepped into a house where there was a lace chamber , up one pair of stairs , and had the satisfaction , or the terror indeed , of looking out of the window upon the noise they made , and seeing the poor creature dragged away in triumph to the justice , who immediately committed her to newgate .
i was careful to attempt nothing in the lace chamber , but tumbled their goods pretty much to spend time ; then bought a few yards of edging and paid for it , and came away very sad-hearted indeed for the poor woman , who was in tribulation for what i only had stolen .
here again my old caution stood me in good stead ; namely , that though i often robbed with these people , yet i never let them know who i was , or where i lodged , nor could they ever find out my lodging , though they often endeavoured to watch me to it .
they all knew me by the name of moll flanders , though even some of them rather believed i was she than knew me to be so . my name was public among them indeed , but how to find me out they knew not , nor so much as how to guess at my quarters , whether they were at the east end of the town or the west ; and this wariness was my safety upon all these occasions . i kept close a great while upon the occasion of this woman 's disaster .
i knew that if i should do anything that should miscarry , and should be carried to prison , she would be there and ready to witness against me , and perhaps save her life at my expense . i considered that i began to be very well known by name at the old bailey , though they did not know my face , and that if i should fall into their hands , i should be treated as an old offender ; and for this reason i was resolved to see what this poor creature 's fate should be before i stirred abroad , though several times in her distress i conveyed money to her for her relief .
at length she came to her trial .
she pleaded she did not steal the thing , but that one mrs. flanders , as she heard her called ( for she did not know her ) , gave the bundle to her after they came out of the shop , and bade her carry it home to her lodging .
they asked her where this mrs. flanders was , but she could not produce her , neither could she give the least account of me ; and the mercer 's men swearing positively that she was in the shop when the goods were stolen , that they immediately missed them , and pursued her , and found them upon her , thereupon the jury brought her in guilty ; but the court , considering that she was really not the person that stole the goods , an inferior assistant , and that it was very possible she could not find out this mrs. flanders , meaning me , though it would save her life , which indeed was true--i say , considering all this , they allowed her to be transported , which was the utmost favour she could obtain , only that the court told her that if she could in the meantime produce the said mrs. flanders , they would intercede for her pardon ; that is to say , if she could find me out , and hand me , she should not be transported .
this i took care to make impossible to her , and so she was shipped off in pursuance of her sentence a little while after .
i must repeat it again , that the fate of this poor woman troubled me exceedingly , and i began to be very pensive , knowing that i was really the instrument of her disaster ; but the preservation of my own life , which was so evidently in danger , took off all my tenderness ; and seeing that she was not put to death , i was very easy at her transportation , because she was then out of the way of doing me any mischief , whatever should happen .
the disaster of this woman was some months before that of the last-recited story , and was indeed partly occasion of my governess proposing to dress me up in men 's clothes , that i might go about unobserved , as indeed i did ; but i was soon tired of that disguise , as i have said , for indeed it exposed me to too many difficulties .
i was now easy as to all fear of witnesses against me , for all those that had either been concerned with me , or that knew me by the name of moll flanders , were either hanged or transported ; and if i should have had the misfortune to be taken , i might call myself anything else , as well as moll flanders , and no old sins could be placed into my account ; so i began to run a-tick again with the more freedom , and several successful adventures i made , though not such as i had made before .
we had at that time another fire happened not a great way off from the place where my governess lived , and i made an attempt there , as before , but as i was not soon enough before the crowd of people came in , and could not get to the house i aimed at , instead of a prize , i got a mischief , which had almost put a period to my life and all my wicked doings together ; for the fire being very furious , and the people in a great fright in removing their goods , and throwing them out of window , a wench from out of a window threw a feather-bed just upon me . it is true , the bed being soft , it broke no bones ; but as the weight was great , and made greater by the fall , it beat me down , and laid me dead for a while . nor did the people concern themselves much to deliver me from it , or to recover me at all ; but i lay like one dead and neglected a good while , till somebody going to remove the bed out of the way , helped me up . it was indeed a wonder the people in the house had not thrown other goods out after it , and which might have fallen upon it , and then i had been inevitably killed ; but i was reserved for further afflictions .
this accident , however , spoiled my market for that time , and i came home to my governess very much hurt and bruised , and frighted to the last degree , and it was a good while before she could set me upon my feet again .
it was now a merry time of the year , and bartholomew fair was begun . i had never made any walks that way , nor was the common part of the fair of much advantage to me ; but i took a turn this year into the cloisters , and among the rest i fell into one of the raffling shops .
it was a thing of no great consequence to me , nor did i expect to make much of it ; but there came a gentleman extremely well dressed and very rich , and as ' tis frequent to talk to everybody in those shops , he singled me out , and was very particular with me . first he told me he would put in for me to raffle , and did so ; and some small matter coming to his lot , he presented it to me ( i think it was a feather muff ) ; then he continued to keep talking to me with a more than common appearance of respect , but still very civil , and much like a gentleman .
he held me in talk so long , till at last he drew me out of the raffling place to the shop-door , and then to a walk in the cloister , still talking of a thousand things cursorily without anything to the purpose . at last he told me that , without compliment , he was charmed with my company , and asked me if i durst trust myself in a coach with him ; he told me he was a man of honour , and would not offer anything to me unbecoming him as such .
i seemed to decline it a while , but suffered myself to be importuned a little , and then yielded .
i was at a loss in my thoughts to conclude at first what this gentleman designed ; but i found afterwards he had had some drink in his head , and that he was not very unwilling to have some more .
he carried me in the coach to the spring garden , at knightsbridge , where we walked in the gardens , and he treated me very handsomely ; but i found he drank very freely . he pressed me also to drink , but i declined it .
hitherto he kept his word with me , and offered me nothing amiss . we came away in the coach again , and he brought me into the streets , and by this time it was near ten o 'clock at night , and he stopped the coach at a house where , it seems , he was acquainted , and where they made no scruple to show us upstairs into a room with a bed in it . at first i seemed to be unwilling to go up , but after a few words i yielded to that too , being willing to see the end of it , and in hope to make something of it at last . as for the bed , etc . , i was not much concerned about that part .
here he began to be a little freer with me than he had promised ; and i by little and little yielded to everything , so that , in a word , he did what he pleased with me ; i need say no more .
all this while he drank freely too , and about one in the morning we went into the coach again . the air and the shaking of the coach made the drink he had get more up in his head than it was before , and he grew uneasy in the coach , and was for acting over again what he had been doing before ; but as i thought my game now secure , i resisted him , and brought him to be a little still , which had not lasted five minutes but he fell fast asleep .
i took this opportunity to search him to a nicety . i took a gold watch , with a silk purse of gold , his fine full-bottom periwig and silver-fringed gloves , his sword and fine snuff-box , and gently opening the coach door , stood ready to jump out while the coach was going on ; but the coach stopped in the narrow street beyond temple bar to let another coach pass , i got softly out , fastened the door again , and gave my gentleman and the coach the slip both together , and never heard more of them .
this was an adventure indeed unlooked for , and perfectly undesigned by me ; though i was not so past the merry part of life , as to forget how to behave , when a fop so blinded by his appetite should not know an old woman from a young .
i did not indeed look so old as i was by ten or twelve years ; yet i was not a young wench of seventeen , and it was easy enough to be distinguished .
there is nothing so absurd , so surfeiting , so ridiculous , as a man heated by wine in his head , and wicked gust in his inclination together ; he is in the possession of two devils at once , and can no more govern himself by his reason than a mill can grind without water ; his vice tramples upon all that was in him that had any good in it , if any such thing there was ; nay , his very sense is blinded by its own rage , and he acts absurdities even in his views ; such a drinking more , when he is drunk already ; picking up a common woman , without regard to what she is or who she is , whether sound or rotten , clean or unclean , whether ugly or handsome , whether old or young , and so blinded as not really to distinguish .
such a man is worse than a lunatic ; prompted by his vicious , corrupted head , he no more knows what he is doing than this wretch of mine knew when i picked his pocket of his watch and his purse of gold .
these are the men of whom solomon says , ' they go like an ox to the slaughter , till a dart strikes through their liver ' ; an admirable description , by the way , of the foul disease , which is a poisonous deadly contagion mingling with the blood , whose centre or foundation is in the liver ; from whence , by the swift circulation of the whole mass , that dreadful nauseous plague strikes immediately through his liver , and his spirits are infected , his vitals stabbed through as with a dart .
it is true this poor unguarded wretch was in no danger from me , though i was greatly apprehensive at first of what danger i might be in from him ; but he was really to be pitied in one respect , that he seemed to be a good sort of man in himself ; a gentleman that had no harm in his design ; a man of sense , and of a fine behaviour , a comely handsome person , a sober solid countenance , a charming beautiful face , and everything that could be agreeable ; only had unhappily had some drink the night before , had not been in bed , as he told me when we were together ; was hot , and his blood fired with wine , and in that condition his reason , as it were asleep , had given him up .
as for me , my business was his money , and what i could make of him ; and after that , if i could have found out any way to have done it , i would have sent him safe home to his house and to his family , for ' twas ten to one but he had an honest , virtuous wife and innocent children , that were anxious for his safety , and would have been glad to have gotten him home , and have taken care of him till he was restored to himself .
and then with what shame and regret would he look back upon himself ! how would he reproach himself with associating himself with a whore ! picked up in the worst of all holes , the cloister , among the dirt and filth of all the town ! how would he be trembling for fear he had got the pox , for fear a dart had struck through his liver , and hate himself every time he looked back upon the madness and brutality of his debauch ! how would he , if he had any principles of honour , as i verily believe he had--i say , how would he abhor the thought of giving any ill distemper , if he had it , as for aught he knew he might , to his modest and virtuous wife , and thereby sowing the contagion in the life-blood of his posterity .
would such gentlemen but consider the contemptible thoughts which the very women they are concerned with , in such cases as these , have of them , it would be a surfeit to them .
as i said above , they value not the pleasure , they are raised by no inclination to the man , the passive jade thinks of no pleasure but the money ; and when he is , as it were , drunk in the ecstasies of his wicked pleasure , her hands are in his pockets searching for what she can find there , and of which he can no more be sensible in the moment of his folly that he can forethink of it when he goes about it .
i knew a woman that was so dexterous with a fellow , who indeed deserved no better usage , that while he was busy with her another way , conveyed his purse with twenty guineas in it out of his fob-pocket , where he had put it for fear of her , and put another purse with gilded counters in it into the room of it .
after he had done , he says to her , ' now han 't you picked my pocket ? '
she jested with him , and told him she supposed he had not much to lose ; he put his hand to his fob , and with his fingers felt that his purse was there , which fully satisfied him , and so she brought off his money .
and this was a trade with her ; she kept a sham gold watch , that is , a watch of silver gilt , and a purse of counters in her pocket to be ready on all such occasions , and i doubt not practiced it with success .
i came home with this last booty to my governess , and really when i told her the story , it so affected her that she was hardly able to forbear tears , to know how such a gentleman ran a daily risk of being undone every time a glass of wine got into his head .
but as to the purchase i got , and how entirely i stripped him , she told me it pleased her wonderfully .
'nay child , ' says she , ' the usage may , for aught i know , do more to reform him than all the sermons that ever he will hear in his life . '
and if the remainder of the story be true , so it did .
i found the next day she was wonderful inquisitive about this gentleman ; the description i had given her of him , his dress , his person , his face , everything concurred to make her think of a gentleman whose character she knew , and family too .
she mused a while , and i going still on with the particulars , she starts up ; says she , ' i 'll lay # 100 i know the gentleman . '
'i am sorry you do , ' says i , ' for i would not have him exposed on any account in the world ; he has had injury enough already by me , and i would not be instrumental to do him any more . '
'no , no , ' says she , ' i will do him no injury , i assure you , but you may let me satisfy my curiosity a little , for if it is he , i warrant you i find it out . '
i was a little startled at that , and told her , with an apparent concern in my face , that by the same rule he might find me out , and then i was undone .
she returned warmly , ' why , do you think i will betray you , child ?
no , no , ' says she , ' not for all he is worth in the world .
i have kept your counsel in worse things than these ; sure you may trust me in this . '
so i said no more at that time .
she laid her scheme another way , and without acquainting me of it , but she was resolved to find it out if possible . so she goes to a certain friend of hers who was acquainted in the family that she guessed at , and told her friend she had some extraordinary business with such a gentleman ( who , by the way , was no less than a baronet , and of a very good family ) , and that she knew not how to come at him without somebody to introduce her .
her friend promised her very readily to do it , and accordingly goes to the house to see if the gentleman was in town .
the next day she come to my governess and tells her that sir ---- was at home , but that he had met with a disaster and was very ill , and there was no speaking with him .
'what disaster ? ' says my governess hastily , as if she was surprised at it .
'why , ' says her friend , ' he had been at hampstead to visit a gentleman of his acquaintance , and as he came back again he was set upon and robbed ; and having got a little drink too , as they suppose , the rogues abused him , and he is very ill . '
'robbed ! ' says my governess , ' and what did they take from him ? '
'why , ' says her friend , ' they took his gold watch and his gold snuff-box , his fine periwig , and what money he had in his pocket , which was considerable , to be sure , for sir ---- never goes without a purse of guineas about him . '
'pshaw ! ' says my old governess , jeering , ' i warrant you he has got drunk now and got a whore , and she has picked his pocket , and so he comes home to his wife and tells her he has been robbed . that 's an old sham ; a thousand such tricks are put upon the poor women every day . '
'fie ! ' says her friend , ' i find you don 't know sir ---- ; why he is as civil a gentleman , there is not a finer man , nor a soberer , graver , modester person in the whole city ; he abhors such things ; there 's nobody that knows him will think such a thing of him . '
'well , well , ' says my governess , ' that 's none of my business ; if it was , i warrant i should find there was something of that kind in it ; your modest men in common opinion are sometimes no better than other people , only they keep a better character , or , if you please , are the better hypocrites . '
'no , no , ' says her friend , ' i can assure you sir ---- is no hypocrite , he is really an honest , sober gentleman , and he has certainly been robbed . '
'nay , ' says my governess , ' it may be he has ; it is no business of mine , i tell you ; i only want to speak with him ; my business is of another nature . '
'but , ' says her friend , ' let your business be of what nature it will , you cannot see him yet , for he is not fit to be seen , for he is very ill , and bruised very much , ' ' ay , ' says my governess , ' nay , then he has fallen into bad hands , to be sure , ' and then she asked gravely , ' pray , where is he bruised ? '
'why , in the head , ' says her friend , ' and one of his hands , and his face , for they used him barbarously . '
'poor gentleman , ' says my governess , ' i must wait , then , till he recovers ' ; and adds , ' i hope it will not be long , for i want very much to speak with him . '
away she comes to me and tells me this story .
'i have found out your fine gentleman , and a fine gentleman he was , ' says she ; ' but , mercy on him , he is in a sad pickle now . i wonder what the d--l you have done to him ; why , you have almost killed him . '
i looked at her with disorder enough .
'i killed him ! ' says i ; ' you must mistake the person ; i am sure i did nothing to him ; he was very well when i left him , ' said i , ' only drunk and fast asleep . '
'i know nothing of that , ' says she , ' but he is in a sad pickle now ' ; and so she told me all that her friend had said to her .
'well , then , ' says i , ' he fell into bad hands after i left him , for i am sure i left him safe enough . '
about ten days after , or a little more , my governess goes again to her friend , to introduce her to this gentleman ; she had inquired other ways in the meantime , and found that he was about again , if not abroad again , so she got leave to speak with him .
she was a woman of a admirable address , and wanted nobody to introduce her ; she told her tale much better than i shall be able to tell it for her , for she was a mistress of her tongue , as i have said already .
she told him that she came , though a stranger , with a single design of doing him a service and he should find she had no other end in it ; that as she came purely on so friendly an account , she begged promise from him , that if he did not accept what she should officiously propose he would not take it ill that she meddled with what was not her business . she assured him that as what she had to say was a secret that belonged to him only , so whether he accepted her offer or not , it should remain a secret to all the world , unless he exposed it himself ; nor should his refusing her service in it make her so little show her respect as to do him the least injury , so that he should be entirely at liberty to act as he thought fit .
he looked very shy at first , and said he knew nothing that related to him that required much secrecy ; that he had never done any man any wrong , and cared not what anybody might say of him ; that it was no part of his character to be unjust to anybody , nor could he imagine in what any man could render him any service ; but that if it was so disinterested a service as she said , he could not take it ill from any one that they should endeavour to serve him ; and so , as it were , left her a liberty either to tell him or not to tell , as she thought fit .
she found him so perfectly indifferent , that she was almost afraid to enter into the point with him ; but , however , after some other circumlocutions she told him that by a strange and unaccountable accident she came to have a particular knowledge of the late unhappy adventure he had fallen into , and that in such a manner , that there was nobody in the world but herself and him that were acquainted with it , no , not the very person that was with him .
he looked a little angrily at first .
'what adventure ? ' said he .
'why , ' said she , ' of your being robbed coming from knightbr---- ; hampstead , sir , i should say , ' says she .
'be not surprised , sir , ' says she , ' that i am able to tell you every step you took that day from the cloister in smithfield to the spring garden at knightsbridge , and thence to the ---- in the strand , and how you were left asleep in the coach afterwards .
i say , let not this surprise you , for , sir , i do not come to make a booty of you , i ask nothing of you , and i assure you the woman that was with you knows nothing who you are , and never shall ; and yet perhaps i may serve you further still , for i did not come barely to let you know that i was informed of these things , as if i wanted a bribe to conceal them ; assure yourself , sir , ' said she , ' that whatever you think fit to do or say to me , it shall be all a secret as it is , as much as if i were in my grave . '
he was astonished at her discourse , and said gravely to her , ' madam , you are a stranger to me , but it is very unfortunate that you should be let into the secret of the worst action of my life , and a thing that i am so justly ashamed of , that the only satisfaction of it to me was , that i thought it was known only to god and my own conscience . '
'pray , sir , ' says she , ' do not reckon the discovery of it to me to be any part of your misfortune .
it was a thing , i believe , you were surprised into , and perhaps the woman used some art to prompt you to it ; however , you will never find any just cause , ' said she , ' to repent that i came to hear of it ; nor can your own mouth be more silent in it that i have been , and ever shall be . '
'well , ' says he , ' but let me do some justice to the woman too ; whoever she is , i do assure you she prompted me to nothing , she rather declined me .
it was my own folly and madness that brought me into it all , ay , and brought her into it too ; i must give her her due so far .
as to what she took from me , i could expect no less from her in the condition i was in , and to this hour i know not whether she robbed me or the coachman ; if she did it , i forgive her , and i think all gentlemen that do so should be used in the same manner ; but i am more concerned for some other things that i am for all that she took from me . '
my governess now began to come into the whole matter , and he opened himself freely to her .
first she said to him , in answer to what he had said about me , ' i am glad , sir , you are so just to the person that you were with ; i assure you she is a gentlewoman , and no woman of the town ; and however you prevailed with her so far as you did , i am sure ' tis not her practice .
you ran a great venture indeed , sir ; but if that be any part of your care , i am persuaded you may be perfectly easy , for i dare assure you no man has touched her , before you , since her husband , and he has been dead now almost eight years . '
it appeared that this was his grievance , and that he was in a very great fright about it ; however , when my governess said this to him , he appeared very well pleased , and said , ' well , madam , to be plain with you , if i was satisfied of that , i should not so much value what i lost ; for , as to that , the temptation was great , and perhaps she was poor and wanted it . '
'if she had not been poor , sir ---- , ' says my governess , ' i assure you she would never have yielded to you ; and as her poverty first prevailed with her to let you do as you did , so the same poverty prevailed with her to pay herself at last , when she saw you were in such a condition , that if she had not done it , perhaps the next coachman might have done it . '
'well , ' says he , ' much good may it do her .
i say again , all the gentlemen that do so ought to be used in the same manner , and then they would be cautious of themselves .
i have no more concern about it , but on the score which you hinted at before , madam . '
here he entered into some freedoms with her on the subject of what passed between us , which are not so proper for a woman to write , and the great terror that was upon his mind with relation to his wife , for fear he should have received any injury from me , and should communicate if farther ; and asked her at last if she could not procure him an opportunity to speak with me .
my governess gave him further assurances of my being a woman clear from any such thing , and that he was as entirely safe in that respect as he was with his own lady ; but as for seeing me , she said it might be of dangerous consequence ; but , however , that she would talk with me , and let him know my answer , using at the same time some arguments to persuade him not to desire it , and that it could be of no service to him , seeing she hoped he had no desire to renew a correspondence with me , and that on my account it was a kind of putting my life in his hands .
he told her he had a great desire to see me , that he would give her any assurances that were in his power , not to take any advantages of me , and that in the first place he would give me a general release from all demands of any kind .
she insisted how it might tend to a further divulging the secret , and might in the end be injurious to him , entreating him not to press for it ; so at length he desisted .
they had some discourse upon the subject of the things he had lost , and he seemed to be very desirous of his gold watch , and told her if she could procure that for him , he would willingly give as much for it as it was worth . she told him she would endeavour to procure it for him , and leave the valuing it to himself .
accordingly the next day she carried the watch , and he gave her thirty guineas for it , which was more than i should have been able to make of it , though it seems it cost much more .
he spoke something of his periwig , which it seems cost him threescore guineas , and his snuff-box , and in a few days more she carried them too ; which obliged him very much , and he gave her thirty more .
the next day i sent him his fine sword and cane gratis , and demanded nothing of him , but i had no mind to see him , unless it had been so that he might be satisfied i knew who he was , which he was not willing to .
then he entered into a long talk with her of the manner how she came to know all this matter .
she formed a long tale of that part ; how she had it from one that i had told the whole story to , and that was to help me dispose of the goods ; and this confidante brought the things to her , she being by profession a pawnbroker ; and she hearing of his worship 's disaster , guessed at the thing in general ; that having gotten the things into her hands , she had resolved to come and try as she had done .
she then gave him repeated assurances that it should never go out of her mouth , and though she knew the woman very well , yet she had not let her know , meaning me , anything of it ; that is to say , who the person was , which , by the way , was false ; but , however , it was not to his damage , for i never opened my mouth of it to anybody .
i had a great many thoughts in my head about my seeing him again , and was often sorry that i had refused it .
i was persuaded that if i had seen him , and let him know that i knew him , i should have made some advantage of him , and perhaps have had some maintenance from him ; and though it was a life wicked enough , yet it was not so full of danger as this i was engaged in .
however , those thoughts wore off , and i declined seeing him again , for that time ; but my governess saw him often , and he was very kind to her , giving her something almost every time he saw her .
one time in particular she found him very merry , and as she thought he had some wine in his head , and he pressed her again very earnestly to let him see that woman that , as he said , had bewitched him so that night , my governess , who was from the beginning for my seeing him , told him he was so desirous of it that she could almost yield of it , if she could prevail upon me ; adding that if he would please to come to her house in the evening , she would endeavour it , upon his repeated assurances of forgetting what was past .
accordingly she came to me , and told me all the discourse ; in short , she soon biassed me to consent , in a case which i had some regret in my mind for declining before ; so i prepared to see him .
i dressed me to all the advantage possible , i assure you , and for the first time used a little art ; i say for the first time , for i had never yielded to the baseness of paint before , having always had vanity enough to believe i had no need of it .
at the hour appointed he came ; and as she observed before , so it was plain still , that he had been drinking , though very far from what we call being in drink .
he appeared exceeding pleased to see me , and entered into a long discourse with me upon the old affair . i begged his pardon very often for my share of it , protested i had not any such design when first i met him , that i had not gone out with him but that i took him for a very civil gentleman , and that he made me so many promises of offering no uncivility to me .
he alleged the wine he drank , and that he scarce knew what he did , and that if it had not been so , i should never have let him take the freedom with me that he had done .
he protested to me that he never touched any woman but me since he was married to his wife , and it was a surprise upon him ; complimented me upon being so particularly agreeable to him , and the like ; and talked so much of that kind , till i found he had talked himself almost into a temper to do the same thing over again . but i took him up short .
i protested i had never suffered any man to touch me since my husband died , which was near eight years . he said he believed it to be so truly ; and added that madam had intimated as much to him , and that it was his opinion of that part which made his desire to see me again ; and that since he had once broke in upon his virtue with me , and found no ill consequences , he could be safe in venturing there again ; and so , in short , it went on to what i expected , and to what will not bear relating .
my old governess had foreseen it , as well as i , and therefore led him into a room which had not a bed in it , and yet had a chamber within it which had a bed , whither we withdrew for the rest of the night ; and , in short , after some time being together , he went to bed , and lay there all night . i withdrew , but came again undressed in the morning , before it was day , and lay with him the rest of the time . thus , you see , having committed a crime once is a sad handle to the committing of it again ; whereas all the regret and reflections wear off when the temptation renews itself .
when he went away , i told him i hoped he was satisfied he had not been robbed again .
he told me he was satisfied in that point , and could trust me again , and putting his hand in his pocket , gave me five guineas , which was the first money i had gained that way for many years .
i had several visits of the like kind from him , but he never came into a settled way of maintenance , which was what i would have best pleased with .
but this affair had its end too ; for after about a year , i found that he did not come so often as usual , and at last he left if off altogether without any dislike to bidding adieu ; and so there was an end of that short scene of life , which added no great store to me , only to make more work for repentance .
however , during this interval i confined myself pretty much at home ; at least , being thus provided for , i made no adventures , no , not for a quarter of a year after he left me ; but then finding the fund fail , and being loth to spend upon the main stock , i began to think of my old trade , and to look abroad into the street again ; and my first step was lucky enough .
i had dressed myself up in a very mean habit , for as i had several shapes to appear in , i was now in an ordinary stuff-gown , a blue apron , and a straw hat and i placed myself at the door of the three cups inn in st. john street .
there were several carriers used the inn , and the stage-coaches for barnet , for totteridge , and other towns that way stood always in the street in the evening , when they prepared to set out , so that i was ready for anything that offered , for either one or other .
the meaning was this ; people come frequently with bundles and small parcels to those inns , and call for such carriers or coaches as they want , to carry them into the country ; and there generally attend women , porters ' wives or daughters , ready to take in such things for their respective people that employ them .
it happened very oddly that i was standing at the inn gate , and a woman that had stood there before , and which was the porter 's wife belonging to the barnet stage-coach , having observed me , asked if i waited for any of the coaches . i told her yes , i waited for my mistress , that was coming to go to barnet . she asked me who was my mistress , and i told her any madam 's name that came next me ; but as it seemed , i happened upon a name , a family of which name lived at hadley , just beyond barnet .
i said no more to her , or she to me , a good while ; but by and by , somebody calling her at a door a little way off , she desired me that if anybody called for the barnet coach , i would step and call her at the house , which it seems was an alehouse . i said yes , very readily , and away she went .
she was no sooner gone but comes a wench and a child , puffing and sweating , and asks for the barnet coach .
i answered presently , ' here . '
'do you belong to the barnet coach ? ' says she .
'yes , sweetheart , ' said i ; ' what do ye want ? '
'i want room for two passengers , ' says she .
'where are they , sweetheart ? ' said i .
'here 's this girl , pray let her go into the coach , ' says she , ' and i 'll go and fetch my mistress . '
'make haste , then , sweetheart , ' says i , ' for we may be full else . '
the maid had a great bundle under her arm ; so she put the child into the coach , and i said , ' you had best put your bundle into the coach too . '
'no , ' says she , ' i am afraid somebody should slip it away from the child . '
'give to me , then , ' said i , ' and i 'll take care of it . '
'do , then , ' says she , ' and be sure you take of it . '
'i 'll answer for it , ' said i , ' if it were for # 20 value . '
'there , take it , then , ' says she , and away she goes .
as soon as i had got the bundle , and the maid was out of sight , i goes on towards the alehouse , where the porter 's wife was , so that if i had met her , i had then only been going to give her the bundle , and to call her to her business , as if i was going away , and could stay no longer ; but as i did not meet her , i walked away , and turning into charterhouse lane , then crossed into batholomew close , so into little britain , and through the bluecoat hospital , into newgate street .
to prevent my being known , i pulled off my blue apron , and wrapped the bundle in it , which before was made up in a piece of painted calico , and very remarkable ; i also wrapped up my straw hat in it , and so put the bundle upon my head ; and it was very well that i did thus , for coming through the bluecoat hospital , who should i meet but the wench that had given me the bundle to hold .
it seems she was going with her mistress , whom she had been gone to fetch , to the barnet coaches .
i saw she was in haste , and i had no business to stop her ; so away she went , and i brought my bundle safe home to my governess .
there was no money , nor plate , or jewels in the bundle , but a very good suit of indian damask , a gown and a petticoat , a laced-head and ruffles of very good flanders lace , and some linen and other things , such as i knew very well the value of .
this was not indeed my own invention , but was given me by one that had practised it with success , and my governess liked it extremely ; and indeed i tried it again several times , though never twice near the same place ; for the next time i tried it in white chapel , just by the corner of petticoat lane , where the coaches stand that go out to stratford and bow , and that side of the country , and another time at the flying horse , without bishopgate , where the cheston coaches then lay ; and i had always the good luck to come off with some booty .
another time i placed myself at a warehouse by the waterside , where the coasting vessels from the north come , such as from newcastle-upon-tyne , sunderland , and other places .
here , the warehouses being shut , comes a young fellow with a letter ; and he wanted a box and a hamper that was come from newcastle-upon-tyne .
i asked him if he had the marks of it ; so he shows me the letter , by virtue of which he was to ask for it , and which gave an account of the contents , the box being full of linen , and the hamper full of glass ware .
i read the letter , and took care to see the name , and the marks , the name of the person that sent the goods , the name of the person that they were sent to ; then i bade the messenger come in the morning , for that the warehouse-keeper would not be there any more that night .
away went i , and getting materials in a public house , i wrote a letter from mr. john richardson of newcastle to his dear cousin jemmy cole , in london , with an account that he sent by such a vessel ( for i remembered all the particulars to a title ) , so many pieces of huckaback linen , so many ells of dutch holland and the like , in a box , and a hamper of flint glasses from mr. henzill 's glasshouse ; and that the box was marked i. c. no. 1 , and the hamper was directed by a label on the cording .
about an hour after , i came to the warehouse , found the warehouse-keeper , and had the goods delivered me without any scruple ; the value of the linen being about # 22 .
i could fill up this whole discourse with the variety of such adventures , which daily invention directed to , and which i managed with the utmost dexterity , and always with success .
at length--as when does the pitcher come safe home that goes so very often to the well ? --i fell into some small broils , which though they could not affect me fatally , yet made me known , which was the worst thing next to being found guilty that could befall me .
i had taken up the disguise of a widow 's dress ; it was without any real design in view , but only waiting for anything that might offer , as i often did .
it happened that while i was going along the street in covent garden , there was a great cry of ' stop thief !
stop thief ! ' some artists had , it seems , put a trick upon a shopkeeper , and being pursued , some of them fled one way , and some another ; and one of them was , they said , dressed up in widow 's weeds , upon which the mob gathered about me , and some said i was the person , others said no .
immediately came the mercer 's journeyman , and he swore aloud i was the person , and so seized on me . however , when i was brought back by the mob to the mercer 's shop , the master of the house said freely that i was not the woman that was in his shop , and would have let me go immediately ; but another fellow said gravely , ' pray stay till mr. ---- ' ( meaning the journeyman ) ' comes back , for he knows her . '
so they kept me by force near half an hour . they had called a constable , and he stood in the shop as my jailer ; and in talking with the constable i inquired where he lived , and what trade he was ; the man not apprehending in the least what happened afterwards , readily told me his name , and trade , and where he lived ; and told me as a jest , that i might be sure to hear of his name when i came to the old bailey .
some of the servants likewise used me saucily , and had much ado to keep their hands off me ; the master indeed was civiller to me than they , but he would not yet let me go , though he owned he could not say i was in his shop before .
i began to be a little surly with him , and told him i hoped he would not take it ill if i made myself amends upon him in a more legal way another time ; and desired i might send for friends to see me have right done me .
no , he said , he could give no such liberty ; i might ask it when i came before the justice of peace ; and seeing i threatened him , he would take care of me in the meantime , and would lodge me safe in newgate .
i told him it was his time now , but it would be mine by and by , and governed my passion as well as i was able . however , i spoke to the constable to call me a porter , which he did , and then i called for pen , ink , and paper , but they would let me have none .
i asked the porter his name , and where he lived , and the poor man told it me very willingly .
i bade him observe and remember how i was treated there ; that he saw i was detained there by force .
i told him i should want his evidence in another place , and it should not be the worse for him to speak . the porter said he would serve me with all his heart .
'but , madam , ' says he , ' let me hear them refuse to let you go , then i may be able to speak the plainer . '
with that i spoke aloud to the master of the shop , and said , ' sir , you know in your own conscience that i am not the person you look for , and that i was not in your shop before , therefore i demand that you detain me here no longer , or tell me the reason of your stopping me . '
the fellow grew surlier upon this than before , and said he would do neither till he thought fit .
'very well , ' said i to the constable and to the porter ; ' you will be pleased to remember this , gentlemen , another time . '
the porter said , ' yes , madam ' ; and the constable began not to like it , and would have persuaded the mercer to dismiss him , and let me go , since , as he said , he owned i was not the person .
'good , sir , ' says the mercer to him tauntingly , ' are you a justice of peace or a constable ?
i charged you with her ; pray do you do your duty . '
the constable told him , a little moved , but very handsomely , ' i know my duty , and what i am , sir ; i doubt you hardly know what you are doing . '
they had some other hard words , and in the meantime the journeyman , impudent and unmanly to the last degree , used me barbarously , and one of them , the same that first seized upon me , pretended he would search me , and began to lay hands on me .
i spit in his face , called out to the constable , and bade him to take notice of my usage . ' and pray , mr. constable , ' said i , ' ask that villain 's name , ' pointing to the man .
the constable reproved him decently , told him that he did not know what he did , for he knew that his master acknowledged i was not the person that was in his shop ; ' and , ' says the constable , ' i am afraid your master is bringing himself , and me too , into trouble , if this gentlewoman comes to prove who she is , and where she was , and it appears that she is not the woman you pretend to . '
'damn her , ' says the fellow again , with a impudent , hardened face , ' she is the lady , you may depend upon it ; i 'll swear she is the same body that was in the shop , and that i gave the pieces of satin that is lost into her own hand . you shall hear more of it when mr. william and mr. anthony ( those were other journeymen ) come back ; they will know her again as well as i . '
just as the insolent rogue was talking thus to the constable , comes back mr. william and mr. anthony , as he called them , and a great rabble with them , bringing along with them the true widow that i was pretended to be ; and they came sweating and blowing into the shop , and with a great deal of triumph , dragging the poor creature in the most butcherly manner up towards their master , who was in the back shop , and cried out aloud , ' here 's the widow , sir ; we have catcher her at last . '
'what do ye mean by that ? ' says the master .
'why , we have her already ; there she sits , ' says he , ' and mr. ---- , ' says he , ' can swear this is she . '
the other man , whom they called mr. anthony , replied , ' mr. ---- may say what he will , and swear what he will , but this is the woman , and there 's the remnant of satin she stole ; i took it out of her clothes with my own hand . '
i sat still now , and began to take a better heart , but smiled and said nothing ; the master looked pale ; the constable turned about and looked at me .
'let ' em alone , mr. constable , ' said i ; ' let ' em go on . '
the case was plain and could not be denied , so the constable was charged with the right thief , and the mercer told me very civilly he was sorry for the mistake , and hoped i would not take it ill ; that they had so many things of this nature put upon them every day , that they could not be blamed for being very sharp in doing themselves justice .
'not take it ill , sir ! ' said i ; ' how can i take it well !
if you had dismissed me when your insolent fellow seized on me it the street , and brought me to you , and when you yourself acknowledged i was not the person , i would have put it by , and not taken it ill , because of the many ill things i believe you have put upon you daily ; but your treatment of me since has been insufferable , and especially that of your servant ; i must and will have reparation for that . '
then he began to parley with me , said he would make me any reasonable satisfaction , and would fain have had me tell him what it was i expected . i told him that i should not be my own judge , the law should decide it for me ; and as i was to be carried before a magistrate , i should let him hear there what i had to say .
he told me there was no occasion to go before the justice now , i was at liberty to go where i pleased ; and so , calling to the constable , told him he might let me go , for i was discharged . the constable said calmly to him , ' sir , you asked me just now if i knew whether i was a constable or justice , and bade me do my duty , and charged me with this gentlewoman as a prisoner .
now , sir , i find you do not understand what is my duty , for you would make me a justice indeed ; but i must tell you it is not in my power .
i may keep a prisoner when i am charged with him , but ' tis the law and the magistrate alone that can discharge that prisoner ; therefore ' tis a mistake , sir ; i must carry her before a justice now , whether you think well of it or not . '
the mercer was very high with the constable at first ; but the constable happening to be not a hired officer , but a good , substantial kind of man ( i think he was a corn-handler ) , and a man of good sense , stood to his business , would not discharge me without going to a justice of the peace ; and i insisted upon it too .
when the mercer saw that , ' well , ' says he to the constable , ' you may carry her where you please ; i have nothing to say to her . '
'but , sir , ' says the constable , ' you will go with us , i hope , for ' tis you that charged me with her . '
'no , not i , ' says the mercer ; ' i tell you i have nothing to say to her . '
'but pray , sir , do , ' says the constable ; ' i desire it of you for your own sake , for the justice can do nothing without you . '
'prithee , fellow , ' says the mercer , ' go about your business ; i tell you i have nothing to say to the gentlewoman . i charge you in the king 's name to dismiss her . '
'sir , ' says the constable , ' i find you don 't know what it is to be constable ; i beg of you don 't oblige me to be rude to you . '
'i think i need not ; you are rude enough already , ' says the mercer .
'no , sir , ' says the constable , ' i am not rude ; you have broken the peace in bringing an honest woman out of the street , when she was about her lawful occasion , confining her in your shop , and ill-using her here by your servants ; and now can you say i am rude to you ?
i think i am civil to you in not commanding or charging you in the king 's name to go with me , and charging every man i see that passes your door to aid and assist me in carrying you by force ; this you cannot but know i have power to do , and yet i forbear it , and once more entreat you to go with me . '
well , he would not for all this , and gave the constable ill language .
however , the constable kept his temper , and would not be provoked ; and then i put in and said , ' come , mr. constable , let him alone ; i shall find ways enough to fetch him before a magistrate , i don 't fear that ; but there 's the fellow , ' says i , ' he was the man that seized on me as i was innocently going along the street , and you are a witness of the violence with me since ; give me leave to charge you with him , and carry him before the justice . '
'yes , madam , ' says the constable ; and turning to the fellow ' come , young gentleman , ' says he to the journeyman , ' you must go along with us ; i hope you are not above the constable 's power , though your master is . '
the fellow looked like a condemned thief , and hung back , then looked at his master , as if he could help him ; and he , like a fool , encourage the fellow to be rude , and he truly resisted the constable , and pushed him back with a good force when he went to lay hold on him , at which the constable knocked him down , and called out for help ; and immediately the shop was filled with people , and the constable seized the master and man , and all his servants .
this first ill consequence of this fray was , that the woman they had taken , who was really the thief , made off , and got clear away in the crowd ; and two other that they had stopped also ; whether they were really guilty or not , that i can say nothing to .
by this time some of his neighbours having come in , and , upon inquiry , seeing how things went , had endeavoured to bring the hot-brained mercer to his senses , and he began to be convinced that he was in the wrong ; and so at length we went all very quietly before the justice , with a mob of about five hundred people at our heels ; and all the way i went i could hear the people ask what was the matter , and other reply and say , a mercer had stopped a gentlewoman instead of a thief , and had afterwards taken the thief , and now the gentlewoman had taken the mercer , and was carrying him before the justice .
this pleased the people strangely , and made the crowd increase , and they cried out as they went , ' which is the rogue ? which is the mercer ? ' and especially the women .
then when they saw him they cried out , ' that 's he , that 's he ' ; and every now and then came a good dab of dirt at him ; and thus we marched a good while , till the mercer thought fit to desire the constable to call a coach to protect himself from the rabble ; so we rode the rest of the way , the constable and i , and the mercer and his man .
when we came to the justice , which was an ancient gentleman in bloomsbury , the constable giving first a summary account of the matter , the justice bade me speak , and tell what i had to say . and first he asked my name , which i was very loth to give , but there was no remedy , so i told him my name was mary flanders , that i was a widow , my husband being a sea captain , died on a voyage to virginia ; and some other circumstances i told which he could never contradict , and that i lodged at present in town with such a person , naming my governess ; but that i was preparing to go over to america , where my husband 's effects lay , and that i was going that day to buy some clothes to put myself into second mourning , but had not yet been in any shop , when that fellow , pointing to the mercer 's journeyman , came rushing upon me with such fury as very much frighted me , and carried me back to his master 's shop , where , though his master acknowledged i was not the person , yet he would not dismiss me , but charged a constable with me .
then i proceeded to tell how the journeyman treated me ; how they would not suffer me to send for any of my friends ; how afterwards they found the real thief , and took the very goods they had lost upon her , and all the particulars as before .
then the constable related his case : his dialogue with the mercer about discharging me , and at last his servant 's refusing to go with him , when he had charged him with him , and his master encouraging him to do so , and at last his striking the constable , and the like , all as i have told it already .
the justice then heard the mercer and his man .
the mercer indeed made a long harangue of the great loss they have daily by lifters and thieves ; that it was easy for them to mistake , and that when he found it he would have dismissed me , etc . , as above .
as to the journeyman , he had very little to say , but that he pretended other of the servants told him that i was really the person .
upon the whole , the justice first of all told me very courteously i was discharged ; that he was very sorry that the mercer 's man should in his eager pursuit have so little discretion as to take up an innocent person for a guilty person ; that if he had not been so unjust as to detain me afterward , he believed i would have forgiven the first affront ; that , however , it was not in his power to award me any reparation for anything , other than by openly reproving them , which he should do ; but he supposed i would apply to such methods as the law directed ; in the meantime he would bind him over .
but as to the breach of the peace committed by the journeyman , he told me he should give me some satisfaction for that , for he should commit him to newgate for assaulting the constable , and for assaulting me also .
accordingly he sent the fellow to newgate for that assault , and his master gave bail , and so we came away ; but i had the satisfaction of seeing the mob wait upon them both , as they came out , hallooing and throwing stones and dirt at the coaches they rode in ; and so i came home to my governess .
after this hustle , coming home and telling my governess the story , she falls a-laughing at me .
'why are you merry ? ' says i ; ' the story has not so much laughing room in it as you imagine ; i am sure i have had a great deal of hurry and fright too , with a pack of ugly rogues . '
'laugh ! ' says my governess ; ' i laugh , child , to see what a lucky creature you are ; why , this job will be the best bargain to you that ever you made in your life , if you manage it well .
i warrant you , ' says she , ' you shall make the mercer pay you # 500 for damages , besides what you shall get out of the journeyman . '
i had other thoughts of the matter than she had ; and especially , because i had given in my name to the justice of peace ; and i knew that my name was so well known among the people at hick 's hall , the old bailey , and such places , that if this cause came to be tried openly , and my name came to be inquired into , no court would give much damages , for the reputation of a person of such a character .
however , i was obliged to begin a prosecution in form , and accordingly my governess found me out a very creditable sort of a man to manage it , being an attorney of very good business , and of a good reputation , and she was certainly in the right of this ; for had she employed a pettifogging hedge solicitor , or a man not known , and not in good reputation , i should have brought it to but little .
it was not long after the affair with the mercer was made up , that i went out in an equipage quite different from any i had ever appeared in before .
i dressed myself like a beggar woman , in the coarsest and most despicable rags i could get , and i walked about peering and peeping into every door and window i came near ; and indeed i was in such a plight now that i knew as ill how to behave in as ever i did in any .
i naturally abhorred dirt and rags ; i had been bred up tight and cleanly , and could be no other , whatever condition i was in ; so that this was the most uneasy disguise to me that ever i put on .
i said presently to myself that this would not do , for this was a dress that everybody was shy and afraid of ; and i thought everybody looked at me , as if they were afraid i should come near them , lest i should take something from them , or afraid to come near me , lest they should get something from me .
i wandered about all the evening the first time i went out , and made nothing of it , but came home again wet , draggled , and tired . however , i went out again the next night , and then i met with a little adventure , which had like to have cost me dear .
as i was standing near a tavern door , there comes a gentleman on horseback , and lights at the door , and wanting to go into the tavern , he calls one of the drawers to hold his horse .
he stayed pretty long in the tavern , and the drawer heard his master call , and thought he would be angry with him .
seeing me stand by him , he called to me , ' here , woman , ' says he , ' hold this horse a while , till i go in ; if the gentleman comes , he 'll give you something . '
'yes , ' says i , and takes the horse , and walks off with him very soberly , and carried him to my governess .
this had been a booty to those that had understood it ; but never was poor thief more at a loss to know what to do with anything that was stolen ; for when i came home , my governess was quite confounded , and what to do with the creature , we neither of us knew . to send him to a stable was doing nothing , for it was certain that public notice would be given in the gazette , and the horse described , so that we durst not go to fetch it again .
all the remedy we had for this unlucky adventure was to go and set up the horse at an inn , and send a note by a porter to the tavern , that the gentleman 's horse that was lost such a time was left at such an inn , and that he might be had there ; that the poor woman that held him , having led him about the street , not being able to lead him back again , had left him there .
we might have waited till the owner had published and offered a reward , but we did not care to venture the receiving the reward .
so this was a robbery and no robbery , for little was lost by it , and nothing was got by it , and i was quite sick of going out in a beggar 's dress ; it did not answer at all , and besides , i thought it was ominous and threatening .
while i was in this disguise , i fell in with a parcel of folks of a worse kind than any i ever sorted with , and i saw a little into their ways too . these were coiners of money , and they made some very good offers to me , as to profit ; but the part they would have had me have embarked in was the most dangerous part . i mean that of the very working the die , as they call it , which , had i been taken , had been certain death , and that at a stake--i say , to be burnt to death at a stake ; so that though i was to appearance but a beggar , and they promised mountains of gold and silver to me to engage , yet it would not do . it is true , if i had been really a beggar , or had been desperate as when i began , i might perhaps have closed with it ; for what care they to die that can 't tell how to live ? but at present this was not my condition , at least i was for no such terrible risks as those ; besides , the very thoughts of being burnt at a stake struck terror into my very soul , chilled my blood , and gave me the vapours to such a degree , as i could not think of it without trembling .
this put an end to my disguise too , for as i did not like the proposal , so i did not tell them so , but seemed to relish it , and promised to meet again .
but i durst see them no more ; for if i had seen them , and not complied , though i had declined it with the greatest assurance of secrecy in the world , they would have gone near to have murdered me , to make sure work , and make themselves easy , as they call it . what kind of easiness that is , they may best judge that understand how easy men are that can murder people to prevent danger .
but at length i met with a woman that had often told me what adventures she had made , and with success , at the waterside , and i closed with her , and we drove on our business pretty well .
one day we came among some dutch people at st. catherine 's , where we went on pretence to buy goods that were privately got on shore .
i was two or three times in a house where we saw a good quantity of prohibited goods , and my companion once brought away three pieces of dutch black silk that turned to good account , and i had my share of it ; but in all the journeys i made by myself , i could not get an opportunity to do anything , so i laid it aside , for i had been so often , that they began to suspect something , and were so shy , that i saw nothing was to be done .
this baulked me a little , and i resolved to push at something or other , for i was not used to come back so often without purchase ; so the next day i dressed myself up fine , and took a walk to the other end of the town .
i passed through the exchange in the strand , but had no notion of finding anything to do there , when on a sudden i saw a great cluttering in the place , and all the people , shopkeepers as well as others , standing up and staring ; and what should it be but some great duchess come into the exchange , and they said the queen was coming .
i set myself close up to a shop-side with my back to the counter , as if to let the crowd pass by , when keeping my eye upon a parcel of lace which the shopkeeper was showing to some ladies that stood by me , the shopkeeper and her maid were so taken up with looking to see who was coming , and what shop they would go to , that i found means to slip a paper of lace into my pocket and come clear off with it ; so the lady-milliner paid dear enough for her gaping after the queen .
i went off from the shop , as if driven along by the throng , and mingling myself with the crowd , went out at the other door of the exchange , and so got away before they missed their lace ; and because i would not be followed , i called a coach and shut myself up in it .
i had scarce shut the coach doors up , but i saw the milliner 's maid and five or six more come running out into the street , and crying out as if they were frightened .
they did not cry ' stop thief ! ' because nobody ran away , but i could hear the word ' robbed , ' and ' lace , ' two or three times , and saw the wench wringing her hands , and run staring to and again , like one scared .
the coachman that had taken me up was getting up into the box , but was not quite up , so that the horse had not begun to move ; so that i was terrible uneasy , and i took the packet of lace and laid it ready to have dropped it out at the flap of the coach , which opens before , just behind the coachman ; but to my great satisfaction , in less than a minute the coach began to move , that is to say , as soon as the coachman had got up and spoken to his horses ; so he drove away without any interruption , and i brought off my purchase , which was work near # 20 .
the next day i dressed up again , but in quite different clothes , and walked the same way again , but nothing offered till i came into st. james 's park , where i saw abundance of fine ladies in the park , walking in the mall , and among the rest there was a little miss , a young lady of about twelve or thirteen years old , and she had a sister , as i suppose it was , with her , that might be about nine years old .
i observed the biggest had a fine gold watch on , and a good necklace of pearl , and they had a footman in livery with them ; but as it is not usual for the footman to go behind the ladies in the mall , so i observed the footman stopped at their going into the mall , and the biggest of the sisters spoke to him , which i perceived was to bid him be just there when they came back .
when i heard her dismiss the footman , i stepped up to him and asked him , what little lady that was ? and held a little chat with him about what a pretty child it was with her , and how genteel and well-carriaged the lady , the eldest , would be : how womanish , and how grave ; and the fool of a fellow told me presently who she was ; that she was sir thomas ---- ' s eldest daughter , of essex , and that she was a great fortune ; that her mother was not come to town yet ; but she was with sir william ---- ' s lady , of suffolk , at her lodging in suffolk street , and a great deal more ; that they had a maid and a woman to wait on them , besides sir thomas 's coach , the coachman , and himself ; and that young lady was governess to the whole family , as well here as at home too ; and , in short , told me abundance of things enough for my business .
i was very well dressed , and had my gold watch as well as she ; so i left the footman , and i puts myself in a rank with this young lady , having stayed till she had taken one double turn in the mall , and was going forward again ; by and by i saluted her by her name , with the title of lady betty .
i asked her when she heard from her father ; when my lady her mother would be in town , and how she did .
i talked so familiarly to her of her whole family that she could not suspect but that i knew them all intimately . i asked her why she would come abroad without mrs. chime with her ( that was the name of her woman ) to take of mrs. judith , that was her sister .
then i entered into a long chat with her about her sister , what a fine little lady she was , and asked her if she had learned french , and a thousand such little things to entertain her , when on a sudden we saw the guards come , and the crowd ran to see the king go by to the parliament house .
the ladies ran all to the side of the mall , and i helped my lady to stand upon the edge of the boards on the side of the mall , that she might be high enough to see ; and took the little one and lifted her quite up ; during which , i took care to convey the gold watch so clean away from the lady betty , that she never felt it , nor missed it , till all the crowd was gone , and she was gotten into the middle of the mall among the other ladies .
i took my leave of her in the very crowd , and said to her , as if in haste , ' dear lady betty , take care of your little sister . '
and so the crowd did as it were thrust me away from her , and that i was obliged unwillingly to take my leave .
the hurry in such cases is immediately over , and the place clear as soon as the king is gone by ; but as there is always a great running and clutter just as the king passes , so having dropped the two little ladies , and done my business with them without any miscarriage , i kept hurrying on among the crowd , as if i ran to see the king , and so i got before the crowd and kept so till i came to the end of the mall , when the king going on towards the horse guards , i went forward to the passage , which went then through against the lower end of the haymarket , and there i bestowed a coach upon myself , and made off , and i confess i have not yet been so good as my word , viz. to go and visit my lady betty .
i was once of the mind to venture staying with lady betty till she missed the watch , and so have made a great outcry about it with her , and have got her into the coach , and put myself in the coach with her , and have gone home with her ; for she appeared so fond of me , and so perfectly deceived by my so readily talking to her of all her relations and family , that i thought it was very easy to push the thing farther , and to have got at least the necklace of pearl ; but when i considered that though the child would not perhaps have suspected me , other people might , and that if i was searched i should be discovered , i thought it was best to go off with what i had got , and be satisfied .
i came accidentally afterwards to hear , that when the young lady missed her watch , she made a great outcry in the park , and sent her footman up and down to see if he could find me out , she having described me so perfectly that he knew presently that it was the same person that had stood and talked so long with him , and asked him so many questions about them ; but i gone far enough out of their reach before she could come at her footman to tell him the story .
i am drawing now towards a new variety of the scenes of life .
upon my return , being hardened by along race of crime , and success unparalleled , at least in the reach of my own knowledge , i had , as i have said , no thoughts of laying down a trade which , if i was to judge by the example of other , must , however , end at last in misery and sorrow .
it was on the christmas day following , in the evening , that , to finish a long train of wickedness , i went abroad to see what might offer in my way ; when going by a working silversmith 's in foster lane , i saw a tempting bait indeed , and not be resisted by one of my occupation , for the shop had nobody in it , as i could see , and a great deal of loose plate lay in the window , and at the seat of the man , who usually , as i suppose , worked at one side of the shop .
i went boldly in , and was just going to lay my hand upon a piece of plate , and might have done it , and carried it clear off , for any care that the men who belonged to the shop had taken of it ; but an officious fellow in a house , not a shop , on the other side of the way , seeing me go in , and observing that there was nobody in the shop , comes running over the street , and into the shop , and without asking me what i was , or who , seizes upon me , an cries out for the people of the house .
i had not , as i said above , touched anything in the shop , and seeing a glimpse of somebody running over to the shop , i had so much presence of mind as to knock very hard with my foot on the floor of the house , and was just calling out too , when the fellow laid hands on me .
however , as i had always most courage when i was in most danger , so when the fellow laid hands on me , i stood very high upon it , that i came in to buy half a dozen of silver spoons ; and to my good fortune , it was a silversmith 's that sold plate , as well as worked plate for other shops .
the fellow laughed at that part , and put such a value upon the service that he had done his neighbour , that he would have it be that i came not to buy , but to steal ; and raising a great crowd .
i said to the master of the shop , who by this time was fetched home from some neighbouring place , that it was in vain to make noise , and enter into talk there of the case ; the fellow had insisted that i came to steal , and he must prove it , and i desired we might go before a magistrate without any more words ; for i began to see i should be too hard for the man that had seized me .
the master and mistress of the shop were really not so violent as the man from t 'other side of the way ; and the man said , ' mistress , you might come into the shop with a good design for aught i know , but it seemed a dangerous thing for you to come into such a shop as mine is , when you see nobody there ; and i cannot do justice to my neighbour , who was so kind to me , as not to acknowledge he had reason on his side ; though , upon the whole , i do not find you attempted to take anything , and i really know not what to do in it . '
i pressed him to go before a magistrate with me , and if anything could be proved on me that was like a design of robbery , i should willingly submit , but if not , i expected reparation .
just while we were in this debate , and a crowd of people gathered about the door , came by sir t. b. , an alderman of the city , and justice of the peace , and the goldsmith hearing of it , goes out , and entreated his worship to come in and decide the case .
give the goldsmith his due , he told his story with a great deal of justice and moderation , and the fellow that had come over , and seized upon me , told his with as much heat and foolish passion , which did me good still , rather than harm .
it came then to my turn to speak , and i told his worship that i was a stranger in london , being newly come out of the north ; that i lodged in such a place , that i was passing this street , and went into the goldsmith 's shop to buy half a dozen of spoons .
by great luck i had an old silver spoon in my pocket , which i pulled out , and told him i had carried that spoon to match it with half a dozen of new ones , that it might match some i had in the country .
that seeing nobody i the shop , i knocked with my foot very hard to make the people hear , and had also called aloud with my voice ; ' tis true , there was loose plate in the shop , but that nobody could say i had touched any of it , or gone near it ; that a fellow came running into the shop out of the street , and laid hands on me in a furious manner , in the very moments while i was calling for the people of the house ; that if he had really had a mind to have done his neighbour any service , he should have stood at a distance , and silently watched to see whether i had touched anything or no , and then have clapped in upon me , and taken me in the fact .
'that is very true , ' says mr. alderman , and turning to the fellow that stopped me , he asked him if it was true that i knocked with my foot ?
he said , yes , i had knocked , but that might be because of his coming .
'nay , ' says the alderman , taking him short , ' now you contradict yourself , for just now you said she was in the shop with her back to you , and did not see you till you came upon her . '
now it was true that my back was partly to the street , but yet as my business was of a kind that required me to have my eyes every way , so i really had a glance of him running over , as i said before , though he did not perceive it .
after a full hearing , the alderman gave it as his opinion that his neighbour was under a mistake , and that i was innocent , and the goldsmith acquiesced in it too , and his wife , and so i was dismissed ; but as i was going to depart , mr. alderman said , ' but hold , madam , if you were designing to buy spoons , i hope you will not let my friend here lose his customer by the mistake . '
i readily answered , ' no , sir , i 'll buy the spoons still , if he can match my odd spoon , which i brought for a pattern ' ; and the goldsmith showed me some of the very same fashion .
so he weighed the spoons , and they came to five-and-thirty shillings , so i pulls out my purse to pay him , in which i had near twenty guineas , for i never went without such a sum about me , whatever might happen , and i found it of use at other times as well as now .
when mr. alderman saw my money , he said , ' well , madam , now i am satisfied you were wronged , and it was for this reason that i moved you should buy the spoons , and stayed till you had bought them , for if you had not had money to pay for them , i should have suspected that you did not come into the shop with an intent to buy , for indeed the sort of people who come upon these designs that you have been charged with , are seldom troubled with much gold in their pockets , as i see you are . '
i smiled , and told his worship , that then i owed something of his favour to my money , but i hoped he saw reason also in the justice he had done me before .
he said , yes , he had , but this had confirmed his opinion , and he was fully satisfied now of my having been injured .
so i came off with flying colours , though from an affair in which i was at the very brink of destruction .
it was but three days after this , that not at all made cautious by my former danger , as i used to be , and still pursuing the art which i had so long been employed in , i ventured into a house where i saw the doors open , and furnished myself , as i though verily without being perceived , with two pieces of flowered silks , such as they call brocaded silk , very rich .
it was not a mercer 's shop , nor a warehouse of a mercer , but looked like a private dwelling-house , and was , it seems , inhabited by a man that sold goods for the weavers to the mercers , like a broker or factor .
that i may make short of this black part of this story , i was attacked by two wenches that came open-mouthed at me just as i was going out at the door , and one of them pulled me back into the room , while the other shut the door upon me .
i would have given them good words , but there was no room for it , two fiery dragons could not have been more furious than they were ; they tore my clothes , bullied and roared as if they would have murdered me ; the mistress of the house came next , and then the master , and all outrageous , for a while especially .
i gave the master very good words , told him the door was open , and things were a temptation to me , that i was poor and distressed , and poverty was when many could not resist , and begged him with tears to have pity on me .
the mistress of the house was moved with compassion , and inclined to have let me go , and had almost persuaded her husband to it also , but the saucy wenches were run , even before they were sent , and had fetched a constable , and then the master said he could not go back , i must go before a justice , and answered his wife that he might come into trouble himself if he should let me go .
the sight of the constable , indeed , struck me with terror , and i thought i should have sunk into the ground . i fell into faintings , and indeed the people themselves thought i would have died , when the woman argued again for me , and entreated her husband , seeing they had lost nothing , to let me go .
i offered him to pay for the two pieces , whatever the value was , though i had not got them , and argued that as he had his goods , and had really lost nothing , it would be cruel to pursue me to death , and have my blood for the bare attempt of taking them .
i put the constable in mind that i had broke no doors , nor carried anything away ; and when i came to the justice , and pleaded there that i had neither broken anything to get in , nor carried anything out , the justice was inclined to have released me ; but the first saucy jade that stopped me , affirming that i was going out with the goods , but that she stopped me and pulled me back as i was upon the threshold , the justice upon that point committed me , and i was carried to newgate .
that horrid place ! my very blood chills at the mention of its name ; the place where so many of my comrades had been locked up , and from whence they went to the fatal tree ; the place where my mother suffered so deeply , where i was brought into the world , and from whence i expected no redemption but by an infamous death : to conclude , the place that had so long expected me , and which with so much art and success i had so long avoided .
i was not fixed indeed ; ' tis impossible to describe the terror of my mind , when i was first brought in , and when i looked around upon all the horrors of that dismal place . i looked on myself as lost , and that i had nothing to think of but of going out of the world , and that with the utmost infamy : the hellish noise , the roaring , swearing , and clamour , the stench and nastiness , and all the dreadful crowd of afflicting things that i saw there , joined together to make the place seem an emblem of hell itself , and a kind of an entrance into it .
i got no sleep for several nights or days after i came into that wretched place , and glad i would have been for some time to have died there , though i did not consider dying as it ought to be considered neither ; indeed , nothing could be filled with more horror to my imagination than the very place , nothing was more odious to me than the company that was there .
oh ! if i had but been sent to any place in the world , and not to newgate , i should have thought myself happy .
in the next place , how did the hardened wretches that were there before me triumph over me ! what !
what !
mrs. mary , mrs. molly , and after that plain moll flanders ?
they thought the devil had helped me , they said , that i had reigned so long ; they expected me there many years ago , and was i come at last ?
then they flouted me with my dejections , welcomed me to the place , wished me joy , bid me have a good heart , not to be cast down , things might not be so bad as i feared , and the like ; then called for brandy , and drank to me , but put it all up to my score , for they told me i was but just come to the college , as they called it , and sure i had money in my pocket , though they had none .
i asked one of this crew how long she had been there .
she said four months .
i asked her how the place looked to her when she first came into it .
'just as it did now to you , ' says she , dreadful and frightful ' ; that she thought she was in hell ; ' and i believe so still , ' adds she , ' but it is natural to me now , i don 't disturb myself about it . '
'i suppose , ' says i , ' you are in no danger of what is to follow ? '
'nay , ' says she , ' for you are mistaken there , i assure you , for i am under sentence , only i pleaded my belly , but i am no more with child than the judge that tried me , and i expect to be called down next sessions . '
this ' calling down ' is calling down to their former judgment , when a woman has been respited for her belly , but proves not to be with child , or if she has been with child , and has been brought to bed .
'well , ' says i , ' are you thus easy ? '
'ay , ' says she , ' i can 't help myself ; what signifies being sad ?
if i am hanged , there 's an end of me , ' says she ; and away she turns dancing , and sings as she goes the following piece of newgate wit ----
'if i swing by the string i shall hear the bell ring and then there 's an end of poor jenny . '
i cannot say , as some do , this devil is not so black as he is painted ; for indeed no colours can represent the place to the life , not any soul conceive aright of it but those who have been suffers there .
but how hell should become by degree so natural , and not only tolerable , but even agreeable , is a thing unintelligible but by those who have experienced it , as i have .
the same night that i was sent to newgate , i sent the news of it to my old governess , who was surprised at it , you may be sure , and spent the night almost as ill out of newgate , as i did in it .
the next morning she came to see me ; she did what she could to comfort me , but she saw that was to no purpose ; however , as she said , to sink under the weight was but to increase the weight ; she immediately applied herself to all the proper methods to prevent the effects of it , which we feared , and first she found out the two fiery jades that had surprised me . she tampered with them , offered them money , and , in a word , tried all imaginable ways to prevent a prosecution ; she offered one of the wenches # 100 to go away from her mistress , and not to appear against me , but she was so resolute , that though she was but a servant maid at # 3 a year wages or thereabouts , she refused it , and would have refused it , as my governess said she believed , if she had offered her # 500 .
then she attacked the other maid ; she was not so hard-hearted in appearance as the other , and sometimes seemed inclined to be merciful ; but the first wench kept her up , and changed her mind , and would not so much as let my governess talk with her , but threatened to have her up for tampering with the evidence .
then she applied to the master , that is to say , the man whose goods had been stolen , and particularly to his wife , who , as i told you , was inclined at first to have some compassion for me ; she found the woman the same still , but the man alleged he was bound by the justice that committed me , to prosecute , and that he should forfeit his recognisance .
my governess offered to find friends that should get his recognisances off of the file , as they call it , and that he should not suffer ; but it was not possible to convince him that could be done , or that he could be safe any way in the world but by appearing against me ; so i was to have three witnesses of fact against me , the master and his two maids ; that is to say , i was as certain to be cast for my life as i was certain that i was alive , and i had nothing to do but to think of dying , and prepare for it .
i lived many days here under the utmost horror of soul ; i had death , as it were , in view , and thought of nothing night and day , but of gibbets and halters , evil spirits and devils ; it is not to be expressed by words how i was harassed , between the dreadful apprehensions of death and the terror of my conscience reproaching me with my past horrible life .
the ordinary of newgate came to me , and talked a little in his way , but all his divinity ran upon confessing my crime , as he called it ( though he knew not what i was in for ) , making a full discovery , and the like , without which he told me god would never forgive me ; and he said so little to the purpose , that i had no manner of consolation from him ; and then to observe the poor creature preaching confession and repentance to me in the morning , and find him drunk with brandy and spirits by noon , this had something in it so shocking , that i began to nauseate the man more than his work , and his work too by degrees , for the sake of the man ; so that i desired him to trouble me no more .
i know not how it was , but by the indefatigable application of my diligent governess i had no bill preferred against me the first sessions , i mean to the grand jury , at guildhall ; so i had another month or five weeks before me , and without doubt this ought to have been accepted by me , as so much time given me for reflection upon what was past , and preparation for what was to come ; or , in a word , i ought to have esteemed it as a space given me for repentance , and have employed it as such , but it was not in me .
i was sorry ( as before ) for being in newgate , but had very few signs of repentance about me .
on the contrary , like the waters in the cavities and hollows of mountains , which petrify and turn into stone whatever they are suffered to drop on , so the continual conversing with such a crew of hell-hounds as i was , had the same common operation upon me as upon other people . i degenerated into stone ; i turned first stupid and senseless , then brutish and thoughtless , and at last raving mad as any of them were ; and , in short , i became as naturally pleased and easy with the place , as if indeed i had been born there .
it is scarce possible to imagine that our natures should be capable of so much degeneracy , as to make that pleasant and agreeable that in itself is the most complete misery .
here was a circumstance that i think it is scarce possible to mention a worse : i was as exquisitely miserable as , speaking of common cases , it was possible for any one to be that had life and health , and money to help them , as i had .
i had weight of guilt upon me enough to sink any creature who had the least power of reflection left , and had any sense upon them of the happiness of this life , of the misery of another ; then i had at first remorse indeed , but no repentance ; i had now neither remorse nor repentance .
i had a crime charged on me , the punishment of which was death by our law ; the proof so evident , that there was no room for me so much as to plead not guilty . i had the name of an old offender , so that i had nothing to expect but death in a few weeks ' time , neither had i myself any thoughts of escaping ; and yet a certain strange lethargy of soul possessed me . i had no trouble , no apprehensions , no sorrow about me , the first surprise was gone ; i was , i may well say , i know not how ; my senses , my reason , nay , my conscience , were all asleep ; my course of life for forty years had been a horrid complication of wickedness , whoredom , adultery , incest , lying , theft ; and , in a word , everything but murder and treason had been my practice from the age of eighteen , or thereabouts , to three-score ; and now i was engulfed in the misery of punishment , and had an infamous death just at the door , and yet i had no sense of my condition , no thought of heaven or hell at least , that went any farther than a bare flying touch , like the stitch or pain that gives a hint and goes off . i neither had a heart to ask god 's mercy , nor indeed to think of it .
and in this , i think , i have given a brief description of the completest misery on earth .
all my terrifying thoughts were past , the horrors of the place were become familiar , and i felt no more uneasiness at the noise and clamours of the prison , than they did who made that noise ; in a word , i was become a mere newgate-bird , as wicked and as outrageous as any of them ; nay , i scarce retained the habit and custom of good breeding and manners , which all along till now ran through my conversation ; so thorough a degeneracy had possessed me , that i was no more the same thing that i had been , than if i had never been otherwise than what i was now .
in the middle of this hardened part of my life i had another sudden surprise , which called me back a little to that thing called sorrow , which indeed i began to be past the sense of before .
they told me one night that there was brought into the prison late the night before three highwaymen , who had committed robbery somewhere on the road to windsor , hounslow heath , i think it was , and were pursued to uxbridge by the country , and were taken there after a gallant resistance , in which i know not how many of the country people were wounded , and some killed .
it is not to be wondered that we prisoners were all desirous enough to see these brave , topping gentlemen , that were talked up to be such as their fellows had not been known , and especially because it was said they would in the morning be removed into the press-yard , having given money to the head master of the prison , to be allowed the liberty of that better part of the prison .
so we that were women placed ourselves in the way , that we would be sure to see them ; but nothing could express the amazement and surprise i was in , when the very first man that came out i knew to be my lancashire husband , the same who lived so well at dunstable , and the same who i afterwards saw at brickhill , when i was married to my last husband , as has been related .
i was struck dumb at the sight , and knew neither what to say nor what to do ; he did not know me , and that was all the present relief i had . i quitted my company , and retired as much as that dreadful place suffers anybody to retire , and i cried vehemently for a great while .
'dreadful creature that i am , ' said i , ' how may poor people have i made miserable ?
how many desperate wretches have i sent to the devil ? '
he had told me at chester he was ruined by that match , and that his fortunes were made desperate on my account ; for that thinking i had been a fortune , he was run into debt more than he was able to pay , and that he knew not what course to take ; that he would go into the army and carry a musket , or buy a horse and take a tour , as he called it ; and though i never told him that i was a fortune , and so did not actually deceive him myself , yet i did encourage the having it thought that i was so , and by that means i was the occasion originally of his mischief .
the surprise of the thing only struck deeper into my thoughts , any gave me stronger reflections than all that had befallen me before . i grieved day and night for him , and the more for that they told me he was the captain of the gang , and that he had committed so many robberies , that hind , or whitney , or the golden farmer were fools to him ; that he would surely be hanged if there were no more men left in the country he was born in ; and that there would abundance of people come in against him .
i was overwhelmed with grief for him ; my own case gave me no disturbance compared to this , and i loaded myself with reproaches on his account . i bewailed his misfortunes , and the ruin he was now come to , at such a rate , that i relished nothing now as i did before , and the first reflections i made upon the horrid , detestable life i had lived began to return upon me , and as these things returned , my abhorrence of the place i was in , and of the way of living in it , returned also ; in a word , i was perfectly changed , and become another body .
while i was under these influences of sorrow for him , came notice to me that the next sessions approaching there would be a bill preferred to the grand jury against me , and that i should be certainly tried for my life at the old bailey .
my temper was touched before , the hardened , wretched boldness of spirit which i had acquired abated , and conscious in the prison , guilt began to flow in upon my mind .
in short , i began to think , and to think is one real advance from hell to heaven . all that hellish , hardened state and temper of soul , which i have said so much of before , is but a deprivation of thought ; he that is restored to his power of thinking , is restored to himself .
as soon as i began , i say , to think , the first think that occurred to me broke out thus : ' lord ! what will become of me ?
i shall certainly die !
i shall be cast , to be sure , and there is nothing beyond that but death !
i have no friends ; what shall i do ?
i shall be certainly cast !
lord , have mercy upon me ! what will become of me ? '
this was a sad thought , you will say , to be the first , after so long a time , that had started into my soul of that kind , and yet even this was nothing but fright at what was to come ; there was not a word of sincere repentance in it all .
however , i was indeed dreadfully dejected , and disconsolate to the last degree ; and as i had no friend in the world to communicate my distressed thoughts to , it lay so heavy upon me , that it threw me into fits and swoonings several times a day .
i sent for my old governess , and she , give her her due , acted the part of a true friend . she left no stone unturned to prevent the grand jury finding the bill . she sought out one or two of the jurymen , talked with them , and endeavoured to possess them with favourable dispositions , on account that nothing was taken away , and no house broken , etc . ; but all would not do , they were over-ruled by the rest ; the two wenches swore home to the fact , and the jury found the bill against me for robbery and house-breaking , that is , for felony and burglary .
i sunk down when they brought me news of it , and after i came to myself again , i thought i should have died with the weight of it .
my governess acted a true mother to me ; she pitied me , she cried with me , and for me , but she could not help me ; and to add to the terror of it , ' twas the discourse all over the house that i should die for it . i could hear them talk it among themselves very often , and see them shake their heads and say they were sorry for it , and the like , as is usual in the place .
but still nobody came to tell me their thoughts , till at last one of the keepers came to me privately , and said with a sigh , ' well , mrs. flanders , you will be tried on friday ' ( this was but a wednesday ) ; ' what do you intend to do ? '
i turned as white as a clout , and said , ' god knows what i shall do ; for my part , i know not what to do . '
'why , ' says he , ' i won 't flatter you , i would have you prepare for death , for i doubt you will be cast ; and as they say you are an old offender , i doubt you will find but little mercy .
they say , ' added he , ' your case is very plain , and that the witnesses swear so home against you , there will be no standing it . '
this was a stab into the very vitals of one under such a burthen as i was oppressed with before , and i could not speak to him a word , good or bad , for a great while ; but at last i burst out into tears , and said to him , ' lord !
mr. ---- , what must i do ? '
'do ! ' says he , ' send for the ordinary ; send for a minister and talk with him ; for , indeed , mrs. flanders , unless you have very good friends , you are no woman for this world . '
this was plain dealing indeed , but it was very harsh to me , at least i thought it so . he left me in the greatest confusion imaginable , and all that night i lay awake .
and now i began to say my prayers , which i had scarce done before since my last husband 's death , or from a little while after . and truly i may well call it saying my prayers , for i was in such a confusion , and had such horror upon my mind , that though i cried , and repeated several times the ordinary expression of ' lord , have mercy upon me ! ' i never brought myself to any sense of my being a miserable sinner , as indeed i was , and of confessing my sins to god , and begging pardon for the sake of jesus christ . i was overwhelmed with the sense of my condition , being tried for my life , and being sure to be condemned , and then i was as sure to be executed , and on this account i cried out all night , ' lord , what will become of me ?
lord ! what shall i do ?
lord ! i shall be hanged !
lord , have mercy upon me ! ' and the like .
my poor afflicted governess was now as much concerned as i , and a great deal more truly penitent , though she had no prospect of being brought to trial and sentence . not but that she deserved it as much as i , and so she said herself ; but she had not done anything herself for many years , other than receiving what i and others stole , and encouraging us to steal it .
but she cried , and took on like a distracted body , wringing her hands , and crying out that she was undone , that she believed there was a curse from heaven upon her , that she should be damned , that she had been the destruction of all her friends , that she had brought such a one , and such a one , and such a one to the gallows ; and there she reckoned up ten or eleven people , some of which i have given account of , that came to untimely ends ; and that now she was the occasion of my ruin , for she had persuaded me to go on , when i would have left off .
i interrupted her there .
'no , mother , no , ' said i , ' don 't speak of that , for you would have had me left off when i got the mercer 's money again , and when i came home from harwich , and i would not hearken to you ; therefore you have not been to blame ; it is i only have ruined myself , i have brought myself to this misery ' ; and thus we spent many hours together .
well , there was no remedy ; the prosecution went on , and on the thursday i was carried down to the sessions-house , where i was arraigned , as they called it , and the next day i was appointed to be tried .
at the arraignment i pleaded ' not guilty , ' and well i might , for i was indicted for felony and burglary ; that is , for feloniously stealing two pieces of brocaded silk , value # 46 , the goods of anthony johnson , and for breaking open his doors ; whereas i knew very well they could not pretend to prove i had broken up the doors , or so much as lifted up a latch .
on the friday i was brought to my trial .
i had exhausted my spirits with crying for two or three days before , so that i slept better the thursday night than i expected , and had more courage for my trial than indeed i thought possible for me to have .
when the trial began , the indictment was read , i would have spoke , but they told me the witnesses must be heard first , and then i should have time to be heard .
the witnesses were the two wenches , a couple of hard-mouthed jades indeed , for though the thing was truth in the main , yet they aggravated it to the utmost extremity , and swore i had the goods wholly in my possession , that i had hid them among my clothes , that i was going off with them , that i had one foot over the threshold when they discovered themselves , and then i put t ' other over , so that i was quite out of the house in the street with the goods before they took hold of me , and then they seized me , and brought me back again , and they took the goods upon me .
the fact in general was all true , but i believe , and insisted upon it , that they stopped me before i had set my foot clear of the threshold of the house . but that did not argue much , for certain it was that i had taken the goods , and i was bringing them away , if i had not been taken .
but i pleaded that i had stole nothing , they had lost nothing , that the door was open , and i went in , seeing the goods lie there , and with design to buy . if , seeing nobody in the house , i had taken any of them up in my hand it could not be concluded that i intended to steal them , for that i never carried them farther than the door to look on them with the better light .
the court would not allow that by any means , and made a kind of a jest of my intending to buy the goods , that being no shop for the selling of anything , and as to carrying them to the door to look at them , the maids made their impudent mocks upon that , and spent their wit upon it very much ; told the court i had looked at them sufficiently , and approved them very well , for i had packed them up under my clothes , and was a-going with them .
in short , i was found guilty of felony , but acquitted of the burglary , which was but small comfort to me , the first bringing me to a sentence of death , and the last would have done no more .
the next day i was carried down to receive the dreadful sentence , and when they came to ask me what i had to say why sentence should not pass , i stood mute a while , but somebody that stood behind me prompted me aloud to speak to the judges , for that they could represent things favourably for me .
this encouraged me to speak , and i told them i had nothing to say to stop the sentence , but that i had much to say to bespeak the mercy of the court ; that i hoped they would allow something in such a case for the circumstances of it ; that i had broken no doors , had carried nothing off ; that nobody had lost anything ; that the person whose goods they were was pleased to say he desired mercy might be shown ( which indeed he very honestly did ) ; that , at the worst , it was the first offence , and that i had never been before any court of justice before ; and , in a word , i spoke with more courage that i thought i could have done , and in such a moving tone , and though with tears , yet not so many tears as to obstruct my speech , that i could see it moved others to tears that heard me .
the judges sat grave and mute , gave me an easy hearing , and time to say all that i would , but , saying neither yes nor no to it , pronounced the sentence of death upon me , a sentence that was to me like death itself , which , after it was read , confounded me . i had no more spirit left in me , i had no tongue to speak , or eyes to look up either to god or man .
my poor governess was utterly disconsolate , and she that was my comforter before , wanted comfort now herself ; and sometimes mourning , sometimes raging , was as much out of herself , as to all outward appearance , as any mad woman in bedlam .
it is rather to be thought of than expressed what was now my condition . i had nothing before me but present death ; and as i had no friends to assist me , or to stir for me , i expected nothing but to find my name in the dead warrant , which was to come down for the execution , the friday afterwards , of five more and myself .
in the meantime my poor distressed governess sent me a minister , who at her request first , and at my own afterwards , came to visit me .
he exhorted me seriously to repent of all my sins , and to dally no longer with my soul ; not flattering myself with hopes of life , which , he said , he was informed there was no room to expect , but unfeignedly to look up to god with my whole soul , and to cry for pardon in the name of jesus christ .
he backed his discourses with proper quotations of scripture , encouraging the greatest sinner to repent , and turn from their evil way , and when he had done , he kneeled down and prayed with me .
it was now that , for the first time , i felt any real signs of repentance . i now began to look back upon my past life with abhorrence , and having a kind of view into the other side of time , and things of life , as i believe they do with everybody at such a time , began to look with a different aspect , and quite another shape , than they did before .
the greatest and best things , the views of felicity , the joy , the griefs of life , were quite other things ; and i had nothing in my thoughts but what was so infinitely superior to what i had known in life , that it appeared to me to be the greatest stupidity in nature to lay any weight upon anything , though the most valuable in this world .
the word eternity represented itself with all its incomprehensible additions , and i had such extended notions of it , that i know not how to express them .
the good gentleman was so moved also in my behalf with a view of the influence which he saw these things had on me , that he blessed god he had come to visit me , and resolved not to leave me till the last moment ; that is , not to leave visiting me .
it was no less than twelve days after our receiving sentence before any were ordered for execution , and then upon a wednesday the dead warrant , as they call it , came down , and i found my name was among them .
a terrible blow this was to my new resolutions ; indeed my heart sank within me , and i swooned away twice , one after another , but spoke not a word .
the good minister was sorely afflicted for me , and did what he could to comfort me with the same arguments , and the same moving eloquence that he did before , and left me not that evening so long as the prisonkeepers would suffer him to stay in the prison , unless he would be locked up with me all night , which he was not willing to be .
i wondered much that i did not see him all the next day , it being the day before the time appointed for execution ; and i was greatly discouraged , and dejected in my mind , and indeed almost sank for want of the comfort which he had so often , and with such success , yielded me on his former visits .
i waited with great impatience , and under the greatest oppressions of spirits imaginable , till about four o 'clock he came to my apartment ; for i had obtained the favour , by the help of money , nothing being to be done in that place without it , not to be kept in the condemned hole , as they call it , among the rest of the prisoners who were to die , but to have a little dirty chamber to myself .
my heart leaped within me for joy when i heard his voice at the door , even before i saw him ; but let any one judge what kind of motion i found in my soul , when after having made a short excuse for his not coming , he showed me that his time had been employed on my account ; that he had obtained a favourable report from the recorder to the secretary of state in my particular case , and , in short , that he had brought me a reprieve .
he used all the caution that he was able in letting me know a thing which it would have been a double cruelty to have concealed ; and yet it was too much for me ; for as grief had overset me before , so did joy overset me now , and i fell into a much more dangerous swooning than i did at first , and it was not without a great difficulty that i was recovered at all .
the next morning there was a sad scene indeed in the prison .
the first thing i was saluted with in the morning was the tolling of the great bell at st. sepulchre 's , as they call it , which ushered in the day .
as soon as it began to toll , a dismal groaning and crying was heard from the condemned hole , where there lay six poor souls who were to be executed that day , some from one crime , some for another , and two of them for murder .
this was followed by a confused clamour in the house , among the several sorts of prisoners , expressing their awkward sorrows for the poor creatures that were to die , but in a manner extremely differing one from another . some cried for them ; some huzzaed , and wished them a good journey ; some damned and cursed those that had brought them to it--that is , meaning the evidence , or prosecutors--many pitying them , and some few , but very few , praying for them .
there was hardly room for so much composure of mind as was required for me to bless the merciful providence that had , as it were , snatched me out of the jaws of this destruction . i remained , as it were , dumb and silent , overcome with the sense of it , and not able to express what i had in my heart ; for the passions on such occasions as these are certainly so agitated as not to be able presently to regulate their own motions .
all the while the poor condemned creatures were preparing to their death , and the ordinary , as they call him , was busy with them , disposing them to submit to their sentence--i say , all this while i was seized with a fit of trembling , as much as i could have been if i had been in the same condition , as to be sure the day before i expected to be ; i was so violently agitated by this surprising fit , that i shook as if it had been in the cold fit of an ague , so that i could not speak or look but like one distracted .
as soon as they were all put into carts and gone , which , however , i had not courage enough to see--i say , as soon as they were gone , i fell into a fit of crying involuntarily , and without design , but as a mere distemper , and yet so violent , and it held me so long , that i knew not what course to take , nor could i stop , or put a check to it , no , not with all the strength and courage i had .
this fit of crying held me near two hours , and , as i believe , held me till they were all out of the world , and then a most humble , penitent , serious kind of joy succeeded ; a real transport it was , or passion of joy and thankfulness , but still unable to give vent to it by words , and in this i continued most part of the day .
it was about a fortnight after this that i had some just apprehensions that i should be included in the next dead warrant at the ensuing sessions ; and it was not without great difficulty , and at last a humble petition for transportation , that i avoided it , so ill was i beholding to fame , and so prevailing was the fatal report of being an old offender ; though in that they did not do me strict justice , for i was not in the sense of the law an old offender , whatever i was in the eye of the judge , for i had never been before them in a judicial way before ; so the judges could not charge me with being an old offender , but the recorder was pleased to represent my case as he thought fit .
i had now a certainty of life indeed , but with the hard conditions of being ordered for transportation , which indeed was hard condition in itself , but not when comparatively considered ; and therefore i shall make no comments upon the sentence , nor upon the choice i was put to .
we shall all choose anything rather than death , especially when ' tis attended with an uncomfortable prospect beyond it , which was my case . the good minister , whose interest , though a stranger to me , had obtained me the reprieve , mourned sincerely for this part .
i have not for a good while mentioned my governess , who had during most , if not all , of this part been dangerously sick , and being in as near a view of death by her disease as i was by my sentence , was a great penitent--i say , i have not mentioned her , nor indeed did i see her in all this time ; but being now recovering , and just able to come abroad , she came to see me .
i told her my condition , and what a different flux and reflux of tears and hopes i had been agitated with ; i told her what i had escaped , and upon what terms ; and she was present when the minister expressed his fears of my relapsing into wickedness upon my falling into the wretched companies that are generally transported .
indeed i had a melancholy reflection upon it in my own mind , for i knew what a dreadful gang was always sent away together , and i said to my governess that the good minister 's fears were not without cause .
'well , well , ' says she , ' but i hope you will not be tempted with such a horrid example as that . '
and as soon as the minister was gone , she told me she would not have me discouraged , for perhaps ways and means might be found out to dispose of me in a particular way , by myself , of which she would talk further to me afterward .
i looked earnestly at her , and i thought she looked more cheerful than she usually had done , and i entertained immediately a thousand notions of being delivered , but could not for my life image the methods , or think of one that was in the least feasible ; but i was too much concerned in it to let her go from me without explaining herself , which , though she was very loth to do , yet my importunity prevailed , and , while i was still pressing , she answered me in a few words , thus : ' why , you have money , have you not ?
did you ever know one in your life that was transported and had a hundred pounds in his pocket , i 'll warrant you , child ? ' says she .
i understood her presently , but told her i would leave all that to her , but i saw no room to hope for anything but a strict execution of the order , and as it was a severity that was esteemed a mercy , there was no doubt but it would be strictly observed .
she said no more but this : ' we will try what can be done , ' and so we parted for that night .
i lay in the prison near fifteen weeks after this order for transportation was signed . what the reason of it was , i know not , but at the end of this time i was put on board of a ship in the thames , and with me a gang of thirteen as hardened vile creatures as ever newgate produced in my time ; and it would really well take up a history longer than mine to describe the degrees of impudence and audacious villainy that those thirteen were arrived to , and the manner of their behaviour in the voyage ; of which i have a very diverting account by me , which the captain of the ship who carried them over gave me the minutes of , and which he caused his mate to write down at large .
it may perhaps be thought trifling to enter here into a relation of all the little incidents which attended me in this interval of my circumstances ; i mean , between the final order of my transportation and the time of my going on board the ship ; and i am too near the end of my story to allow room for it ; but something relating to me and my lancashire husband i must not omit .
he had , as i have observed already , been carried from the master 's side of the ordinary prison into the press-yard , with three of his comrades , for they found another to add to them after some time ; here , for what reason i knew not , they were kept in custody without being brought to trial almost three months .
it seems they found means to bribe or buy off some of those who were expected to come in against them , and they wanted evidence for some time to convict them .
after some puzzle on this account , at first they made a shift to get proof enough against two of them to carry them off ; but the other two , of which my lancashire husband was one , lay still in suspense .
they had , i think , one positive evidence against each of them , but the law strictly obliging them to have two witnesses , they could make nothing of it . yet it seems they were resolved not to part with the men neither , not doubting but a further evidence would at last come in ; and in order to this , i think publication was made , that such prisoners being taken , any one that had been robbed by them might come to the prison and see them .
i took this opportunity to satisfy my curiosity , pretending that i had been robbed in the dunstable coach , and that i would go to see the two highwaymen . but when i came into the press-yard , i so disguised myself , and muffled my face up so , that he could see little of me , and consequently knew nothing of who i was ; and when i came back , i said publicly that i knew them very well .
immediately it was rumoured all over the prison that moll flanders would turn evidence against one of the highwaymen , and that i was to come off by it from the sentence of transportation .
they heard of it , and immediately my husband desired to see this mrs. flanders that knew him so well , and was to be an evidence against him ; and accordingly i had leave given to go to him .
i dressed myself up as well as the best clothes that i suffered myself ever to appear in there would allow me , and went to the press-yard , but had for some time a hood over my face . he said little to me at first , but asked me if i knew him . i told him , yes , very well ; but as i concealed my face , so i counterfeited my voice , that he had not the least guess at who i was .
he asked me where i had seen him . i told him between dunstable and brickhill ; but turning to the keeper that stood by , i asked if i might not be admitted to talk with him alone .
he said yes , yes , as much as i pleased , and so very civilly withdrew .
as soon as he was gone , i had shut the door , i threw off my hood , and bursting out into tears , ' my dear , ' says i , ' do you not know me ? '
he turned pale , and stood speechless , like one thunderstruck , and , not able to conquer the surprise , said no more but this , ' let me sit down ' ; and sitting down by a table , he laid his elbow upon the table , and leaning his head on his hand , fixed his eyes on the ground as one stupid .
i cried so vehemently , on the other hand , that it was a good while ere i could speak any more ; but after i had given some vent to my passion by tears , i repeated the same words , ' my dear , do you not know me ? '
at which he answered , yes , and said no more a good while .
after some time continuing in the surprise , as above , he cast up his eyes towards me and said , ' how could you be so cruel ? '
i did not readily understand what he meant ; and i answered , ' how can you call me cruel ?
what have i been cruel to you in ? '
'to come to me , ' says he , ' in such a place as this , is it not to insult me ?
i have not robbed you , at least not on the highway . '
i perceived by this that he knew nothing of the miserable circumstances i was in , and thought that , having got some intelligence of his being there , i had come to upbraid him with his leaving me .
but i had too much to say to him to be affronted , and told him in few words , that i was far from coming to insult him , but at best i came to condole mutually ; that he would be easily satisfied that i had no such view , when i should tell him that my condition was worse than his , and that many ways .
he looked a little concerned at the general expression of my condition being worse than his , but , with a kind smile , looked a little wildly , and said , ' how can that be ?
when you see me fettered , and in newgate , and two of my companions executed already , can you can your condition is worse than mine ? '
'come , my dear , ' says i , ' we have a long piece of work to do , if i should be to relate , or you to hear , my unfortunate history ; but if you are disposed to hear it , you will soon conclude with me that my condition is worse than yours . '
'how is that possible , ' says he again , ' when i expect to be cast for my life the very next sessions ? '
'yes , says i , " tis very possible , when i shall tell you that i have been cast for my life three sessions ago , and am under sentence of death ; is not my case worse than yours ? '
then indeed , he stood silent again , like one struck dumb , and after a while he starts up .
'unhappy couple ! ' says he . ' how can this be possible ? '
i took him by the hand .
'come , my dear , ' said i , ' sit down , and let us compare our sorrows . i am a prisoner in this very house , and in much worse circumstances than you , and you will be satisfied i do not come to insult you , when i tell you the particulars . '
any with this we sat down together , and i told him so much of my story as i thought was convenient , bringing it at last to my being reduced to great poverty , and representing myself as fallen into some company that led me to relieve my distresses by way that i had been utterly unacquainted with , and that they making an attempt at a tradesman 's house , i was seized upon for having been but just at the door , the maid-servant pulling me in ; that i neither had broke any lock nor taken anything away , and that notwithstanding that , i was brought in guilty and sentenced to die ; but that the judges , having been made sensible of the hardship of my circumstances , had obtained leave to remit the sentence upon my consenting to be transported .
i told him i fared the worse for being taken in the prison for one moll flanders , who was a famous successful thief , that all of them had heard of , but none of them had ever seen ; but that , as he knew well , was none of my name .
but i placed all to the account of my ill fortune , and that under this name i was dealt with as an old offender , though this was the first thing they had ever known of me .
i gave him a long particular of things that had befallen me since i saw him , but i told him if i had seen him since he might think i had , and then gave him an account how i had seen him at brickhill ; how furiously he was pursued , and how , by giving an account that i knew him , and that he was a very honest gentleman , one mr. ---- , the hue-and-cry was stopped , and the high constable went back again .
he listened most attentively to all my story , and smiled at most of the particulars , being all of them petty matters , and infinitely below what he had been at the head of ; but when i came to the story of brickhill , he was surprised .
'and was it you , my dear , ' said he , ' that gave the check to the mob that was at our heels there , at brickhill ? '
'yes , ' said i , ' it was i indeed . ' and then i told him the particulars which i had observed him there .
'why , then , ' said he , ' it was you that saved my life at that time , and i am glad i owe my life to you , for i will pay the debt to you now , and i 'll deliver you from the present condition you are in , or i will die in the attempt . '
i told him , by no means ; it was a risk too great , not worth his running the hazard of , and for a life not worth his saving .
'twas no matter for that , he said , it was a life worth all the world to him ; a life that had given him a new life ; ' for , ' says he , ' i was never in real danger of being taken , but that time , till the last minute when i was taken . '
indeed , he told me his danger then lay in his believing he had not been pursued that way ; for they had gone from hockey quite another way , and had come over the enclosed country into brickhill , not by the road , and were sure they had not been seen by anybody .
here he gave me a long history of his life , which indeed would make a very strange history , and be infinitely diverting . he told me he took to the road about twelve years before he married me ; that the woman which called him brother was not really his sister , or any kin to him , but one that belonged to their gang , and who , keeping correspondence with him , lived always in town , having good store of acquaintance ; that she gave them a perfect intelligence of persons going out of town , and that they had made several good booties by her correspondence ; that she thought she had fixed a fortune for him when she brought me to him , but happened to be disappointed , which he really could not blame her for ; that if it had been his good luck that i had had the estate , which she was informed i had , he had resolved to leave off the road and live a retired , sober live but never to appear in public till some general pardon had been passed , or till he could , for money , have got his name into some particular pardon , that so he might have been perfectly easy ; but that , as it had proved otherwise , he was obliged to put off his equipage and take up the old trade again .
he gave me a long account of some of his adventures , and particularly one when he robbed the west chester coaches near lichfield , when he got a very great booty ; and after that , how he robbed five graziers , in the west , going to burford fair in wiltshire to buy sheep . he told me he got so much money on those two occasions , that if he had known where to have found me , he would certainly have embraced my proposal of going with me to virginia , or to have settled in a plantation on some other parts of the english colonies in america .
he told me he wrote two or three letters to me , directed according to my order , but heard nothing from me .
this i indeed knew to be true , but the letters coming to my hand in the time of my latter husband , i could do nothing in it , and therefore chose to give no answer , that so he might rather believe they had miscarried .
i then inquired into the circumstances of his present case at that time , and what it was he expected when he came to be tried .
he told me that they had no evidence against him , or but very little ; for that of three robberies , which they were all charged with , it was his good fortune that he was but in one of them , and that there was but one witness to be had for that fact , which was not sufficient , but that it was expected some others would come in against him ; that he thought indeed , when he first saw me , that i had been one that came of that errand ; but that if somebody came in against him , he hoped he should be cleared ; that he had had some intimation , that if he would submit to transport himself , he might be admitted to it without a trial , but that he could not think of it with any temper , and thought he could much easier submit to be hanged .
i blamed him for that , and told him i blamed him on two accounts ; first , because if he was transported , there might be a hundred ways for him that was a gentleman , and a bold enterprising man , to find his way back again , and perhaps some ways and means to come back before he went .
he smiled at that part , and said he should like the last the best of the two , for he had a kind of horror upon his mind at his being sent over to the plantations , as romans sent condemned slaves to work in the mines ; that he thought the passage into another state , let it be what it would , much more tolerable at the gallows , and that this was the general notion of all the gentlemen who were driven by the exigence of their fortunes to take the road ; that at the place of execution there was at least an end of all the miseries of the present state , and as for what was to follow , a man was , in his opinion , as likely to repent sincerely in the last fortnight of his life , under the pressures and agonies of a jail and the condemned hole , as he would ever be in the woods and wilderness of america ; that servitude and hard labour were things gentlemen could never stoop to ; that it was but the way to force them to be their own executioners afterwards , which was much worse ; and that therefore he could not have any patience when he did but think of being transported .
i used the utmost of my endeavour to persuade him , and joined that known woman 's rhetoric to it--i mean , that of tears .
i told him the infamy of a public execution was certainly a greater pressure upon the spirits of a gentleman than any of the mortifications that he could meet with abroad could be ; that he had at least in the other a chance for his life , whereas here he had none at all ; that it was the easiest thing in the world for him to manage the captain of a ship , who were , generally speaking , men of good-humour and some gallantry ; and a small matter of conduct , especially if there was any money to be had , would make way for him to buy himself off when he came to virginia .
he looked wistfully at me , and i thought i guessed at what he meant , that is to say , that he had no money ; but i was mistaken , his meaning was another way .
'you hinted just now , my dear , ' said he , ' that there might be a way of coming back before i went , by which i understood you that it might be possible to buy it off here .
i had rather give # 200 to prevent going , than # 100 to be set at liberty when i came there . '
'that is , my dear , ' said i , ' because you do not know the place so well as i do . '
'that may be , ' said he ; ' and yet i believe , as well as you know it , you would do the same , unless it is because , as you told me , you have a mother there . '
i told him , as to my mother , it was next to impossible but that she must be dead many years before ; and as for any other relations that i might have there , i knew them not now ; that since the misfortunes i had been under had reduced me to the condition i had been in for some years , i had not kept up any correspondence with them ; and that he would easily believe , i should find but a cold reception from them if i should be put to make my first visit in the condition of a transported felon ; that therefore , if i went thither , i resolved not to see them ; but that i had many views in going there , if it should be my fate , which took off all the uneasy part of it ; and if he found himself obliged to go also , i should easily instruct him how to manage himself , so as never to go a servant at all , especially since i found he was not destitute of money , which was the only friend in such a condition .
he smiled , and said he did not tell me he had money .
i took him up short , and told him i hoped he did not understand by my speaking , that i should expect any supply from him if he had money ; that , on the other hand , though i had not a great deal , yet i did not want , and while i had any i would rather add to him than weaken him in that article , seeing , whatever he had , i knew in the case of transportation he would have occasion of it all .
he expressed himself in a most tender manner upon that head .
he told me what money he had was not a great deal , but that he would never hide any of it from me if i wanted it , and that he assured me he did not speak with any such apprehensions ; that he was only intent upon what i had hinted to him before he went ; that here he knew what to do with himself , but that there he should be the most ignorant , helpless wretch alive .
i told him he frighted and terrified himself with that which had no terror in it ; that if he had money , as i was glad to hear he had , he might not only avoid the servitude supposed to be the consequence of transportation , but begin the world upon a new foundation , and that such a one as he could not fail of success in , with the common application usual in such cases ; that he could not but call to mind that is was what i had recommended to him many years before and had proposed it for our mutual subsistence and restoring our fortunes in the world ; and i would tell him now , that to convince him both of the certainty of it and of my being fully acquainted with the method , and also fully satisfied in the probability of success , he should first see me deliver myself from the necessity of going over at all , and then that i would go with him freely , and of my own choice , and perhaps carry enough with me to satisfy him that i did not offer it for want of being able to live without assistance from him , but that i thought our mutual misfortunes had been such as were sufficient to reconcile us both to quitting this part of the world , and living where nobody could upbraid us with what was past , or we be in any dread of a prison , and without agonies of a condemned hole to drive us to it ; this where we should look back on all our past disasters with infinite satisfaction , when we should consider that our enemies should entirely forget us , and that we should live as new people in a new world , nobody having anything to say to us , or we to them .
i pressed this home to him with so many arguments , and answered all his own passionate objections so effectually that he embraced me , and told me i treated him with such sincerity and affection as overcame him ; that he would take my advice , and would strive to submit to his fate in hope of having the comfort of my assistance , and of so faithful a counsellor and such a companion in his misery . but still he put me in mind of what i had mentioned before , namely , that there might be some way to get off before he went , and that it might be possible to avoid going at all , which he said would be much better .
we parted after this long conference with such testimonies of kindness and affection as i thought were equal , if not superior , to that at our parting at dunstable ; and now i saw more plainly than before , the reason why he declined coming at that time any farther with me toward london than dunstable , and why , when we parted there , he told me it was not convenient for him to come part of the way to london to bring me going , as he would otherwise have done .
at last , with much difficulty , he gave his consent ; and as he was not therefore admitted to transportation in court , and on his petition , as i was , so he found himself under a difficulty to avoid embarking himself as i had said he might have done ; his great friend , who was his intercessor for the favour of that grant , having given security for him that he should transport himself , and not return within the term .
the time of my being transported according to my sentence was near at hand ; my governess , who continued my fast friend , had tried to obtain a pardon , but it could not be done unless with an expense too heavy for my purse , considering that to be left naked and empty , unless i had resolved to return to my old trade again , had been worse than my transportation , because there i knew i could live , here i could not .
it was in the month of february that i was , with seven other convicts , as they called us , delivered to a merchant that traded to virginia , on board a ship , riding , as they called it , in deptford reach . the officer of the prison delivered us on board , and the master of the vessel gave a discharge for us .
we were for that night clapped under hatches , and kept so close that i thought i should have been suffocated for want of air ; and the next morning the ship weighed , and fell down the river to a place they call bugby 's hole , which was done , as they told us , by the agreement of the merchant , that all opportunity of escape should be taken from us .
however , when the ship came thither and cast anchor , we were allowed more liberty , and particularly were permitted to come up on the deck , but not up on the quarter-deck , that being kept particularly for the captain and for passengers .
when by the noise of the men over my head , and the motion of the ship , i perceived that they were under sail , i was at first greatly surprised , fearing we should go away directly , and that our friends would not be admitted to see us any more ; but i was easy soon after , when i found they had come to an anchor again , and soon after that we had notice given by some of the men where we were , that the next morning we should have the liberty to come up on deck , and to have our friends come and see us if we had any .
all that night i lay upon the hard boards of the deck , as the passengers did , but we had afterwards the liberty of little cabins for such of us as had any bedding to lay in them , and room to stow any box or trunk for clothes and linen , if we had it ( which might well be put in ) , for some of them had neither shirt nor shift or a rag of linen or woollen , but what was on their backs , or a farthing of money to help themselves ; and yet i did not find but they fared well enough in the ship , especially the women , who got money from the seamen for washing their clothes , sufficient to purchase any common things that they wanted .
when the next morning we had the liberty to come up on the deck , i asked one of the officers of the ship , whether i might not have the liberty to send a letter on shore , to let my friends know where the ship lay , and to get some necessary things sent to me .
this was , it seems , the boatswain , a very civil , courteous sort of man , who told me i should have that , or any other liberty that i desired , that he could allow me with safety . i told him i desired no other ; and he answered that the ship 's boat would go up to london the next tide , and he would order my letter to be carried .
accordingly , when the boat went off , the boatswain came to me and told me the boat was going off , and that he went in it himself , and asked me if my letter was ready he would take care of it .
i had prepared myself , you may be sure , pen , ink , and paper beforehand , and i had gotten a letter ready directed to my governess , and enclosed another for my fellow-prisoner , which , however , i did not let her know was my husband , not to the last .
in that to my governess , i let her know where the ship lay , and pressed her earnestly to send me what things i knew she had got ready for me for my voyage .
when i gave the boatswain the letter , i gave him a shilling with it , which i told him was for the charge of a messenger or porter , which i entreated him to send with the letter as soon as he came on shore , that if possible i might have an answer brought back by the same hand , that i might know what was become of my things ; ' for sir , ' says i , ' if the ship should go away before i have them on board , i am undone . '
i took care , when i gave him the shilling , to let him see that i had a little better furniture about me than the ordinary prisoners , for he saw that i had a purse , and in it a pretty deal of money ; and i found that the very sight of it immediately furnished me with very different treatment from what i should otherwise have met with in the ship ; for though he was very courteous indeed before , in a kind of natural compassion to me , as a woman in distress , yet he was more than ordinarily so afterwards , and procured me to be better treated in the ship than , i say , i might otherwise have been ; as shall appear in its place .
he very honestly had my letter delivered to my governess 's own hands , and brought me back an answer from her in writing ; and when he gave me the answer , gave me the shilling again .
'there , ' says he , ' there 's your shilling again too , for i delivered the letter myself . '
i could not tell what to say , i was so surprised at the thing ; but after some pause , i said , ' sir , you are too kind ; it had been but reasonable that you had paid yourself coach-hire , then . '
'no , no , ' says he , ' i am overpaid .
what is the gentlewoman ?
your sister . '
'no , sir , ' says i , ' she is no relation to me , but she is a dear friend , and all the friends i have in the world . '
'well , ' says he , ' there are few such friends in the world .
why , she cried after you like a child , ' ' ay , ' says i again , ' she would give a hundred pounds , i believe , to deliver me from this dreadful condition i am in . '
'would she so ? ' says he . ' for half the money i believe i could put you in a way how to deliver yourself . '
but this he spoke softly , that nobody could hear .
'alas ! sir , ' said i , ' but then that must be such a deliverance as , if i should be taken again , would cost me my life . '
'nay , ' said he , ' if you were once out of the ship , you must look to yourself afterwards ; that i can say nothing to . '
so we dropped the discourse for that time .
in the meantime , my governess , faithful to the last moment , conveyed my letter to the prison to my husband , and got an answer to it , and the next day came down herself to the ship , bringing me , in the first place , a sea-bed as they call it , and all its furniture , such as was convenient , but not to let the people think it was extraordinary . she brought with her a sea-chest--that is , a chest , such as are made for seamen , with all the conveniences in it , and filled with everything almost that i could want ; and in one of the corners of the chest , where there was a private drawer , was my bank of money--this is to say , so much of it as i had resolved to carry with me ; for i ordered a part of my stock to be left behind me , to be sent afterwards in such goods as i should want when i came to settle ; for money in that country is not of much use where all things are brought for tobacco , much more is it a great loss to carry it from hence .
but my case was particular ; it was by no means proper to me to go thither without money or goods , and for a poor convict , that was to be sold as soon as i came on shore , to carry with me a cargo of goods would be to have notice taken of it , and perhaps to have them seized by the public ; so i took part of my stock with me thus , and left the other part with my governess .
my governess brought me a great many other things , but it was not proper for me to look too well provided in the ship , at least till i knew what kind of a captain we should have .
when she came into the ship , i thought she would have died indeed ; her heart sank at the sight of me , and at the thoughts of parting with me in that condition , and she cried so intolerably , i could not for a long time have any talk with her .
i took that time to read my fellow-prisoner 's letter , which , however , greatly perplexed me .
he told me was determined to go , but found it would be impossible for him to be discharged time enough for going in the same ship , and which was more than all , he began to question whether they would give him leave to go in what ship he pleased , though he did voluntarily transport himself ; but that they would see him put on board such a ship as they should direct , and that he would be charged upon the captain as other convict prisoners were ; so that he began to be in despair of seeing me till he came to virginia , which made him almost desperate ; seeing that , on the other hand , if i should not be there , if any accident of the sea or of mortality should take me away , he should be the most undone creature there in the world .
this was very perplexing , and i knew not what course to take . i told my governess the story of the boatswain , and she was mighty eager with me treat with him ; but i had no mind to it , till i heard whether my husband , or fellow-prisoner , so she called him , could be at liberty to go with me or no .
at last i was forced to let her into the whole matter , except only that of his being my husband . i told her i had made a positive bargain or agreement with him to go , if he could get the liberty of going in the same ship , and that i found he had money .
then i read a long lecture to her of what i proposed to do when we came there , how we could plant , settle , and , in short , grow rich without any more adventures ; and , as a great secret , i told her that we were to marry as soon as he came on board .
she soon agreed cheerfully to my going when she heard this , and she made it her business from that time to get him out of the prison in time , so that he might go in the same ship with me , which at last was brought to pass , though with great difficulty , and not without all the forms of a transported prisoner-convict , which he really was not yet , for he had not been tried , and which was a great mortification to him .
as our fate was now determined , and we were both on board , actually bound to virginia , in the despicable quality of transported convicts destined to be sold for slaves , i for five years , and he under bonds and security not to return to england any more , as long as he lived , he was very much dejected and cast down ; the mortification of being brought on board , as he was , like a prisoner , piqued him very much , since it was first told him he should transport himself , and so that he might go as a gentleman at liberty . it is true he was not ordered to be sold when he came there , as we were , and for that reason he was obliged to pay for his passage to the captain , which we were not ; as to the rest , he was as much at a loss as a child what to do with himself , or with what he had , but by directions .
our first business was to compare our stock . he was very honest to me , and told me his stock was pretty good when he came into the prison , but the living there as he did in a figure like a gentleman , and , which was ten times as much , the making of friends , and soliciting his case , had been very expensive ; and , in a word , all his stock that he had left was # 108 , which he had about him all in gold .
i gave him an account of my stock as faithfully , that is to say , of what i had taken to carry with me , for i was resolved , whatever should happen , to keep what i had left with my governess in reserve ; that in case i should die , what i had with me was enough to give him , and that which was left in my governess 's hands would be her own , which she had well deserved of me indeed .
my stock which i had with me was # 246 some odd shillings ; so that we had # 354 between us , but a worse gotten estate was scarce ever put together to being the world with .
our greatest misfortune as to our stock was that it was all in money , which every one knows is an unprofitable cargo to be carried to the plantations . i believe his was really all he had left in the world , as he told me it was ; but i , who had between # 700 and # 800 in bank when this disaster befell me , and who had one of the faithfullest friends in the world to manage it for me , considering she was a woman of manner of religious principles , had still # 300 left in her hand , which i reserved as above ; besides , some very valuable things , as particularly two gold watches , some small pieces of plate , and some rings--all stolen goods .
the plate , rings , and watches were put in my chest with the money , and with this fortune , and in the sixty-first year of my age , i launched out into a new world , as i may call it , in the condition ( as to what appeared ) only of a poor , naked convict , ordered to be transported in respite from the gallows . my clothes were poor and mean , but not ragged or dirty , and none knew in the whole ship that i had anything of value about me .
however , as i had a great many very good clothes and linen in abundance , which i had ordered to be packed up in two great boxes , i had them shipped on board , not as my goods , but as consigned to my real name in virginia ; and had the bills of loading signed by a captain in my pocket ; and in these boxes was my plate and watches , and everything of value except my money , which i kept by itself in a private drawer in my chest , which could not be found , or opened , if found , with splitting the chest to pieces .
the ship began now to fill ; several passengers came on board , who were embarked on no criminal account , and these had accommodations assigned them in the great cabin , and other parts of the ship , whereas we , as convicts , were thrust down below , i know not where .
but when my husband came on board , i spoke to the boatswain , who had so early given me hints of his friendship in carrying my letter . i told him he had befriended me in many things , and i had not made any suitable return to him , and with that i put a guinea into his hand . i told him that my husband was now come on board ; that though we were both under the present misfortune , yet we had been persons of a different character from the wretched crew that we came with , and desired to know of him , whether the captain might not be moved to admit us to some conveniences in the ship , for which we would make him what satisfaction he pleased , and that we would gratify him for his pains in procuring this for us .
he took the guinea , as i could see , with great satisfaction , and assured me of his assistance .
then he told us he did not doubt but that the captain , who was one of the best-humoured gentlemen in the world , would be easily brought to accommodate us as well as we could desire , and , to make me easy , told me he would go up the next tide on purpose to speak to the captain about it .
the next morning , happening to sleep a little longer than ordinary , when i got up , and began to look abroad , i saw the boatswain among the men in his ordinary business . i was a little melancholy at seeing him there , and going forward to speak to him , he saw me , and came towards me , but not giving him time to speak first , i said , smiling , ' i doubt , sir , you have forgot us , for i see you are very busy . '
he returned presently , ' come along with me , and you shall see . '
so he took me into the great cabin , and there sat a good sort of a gentlemanly man for a seaman , writing , and with a great many papers before him .
'here , ' says the boatswain to him that was a-writing , ' is the gentlewoman that the captain spoke to you of ' ; and turning to me , he said , ' i have been so far from forgetting your business , that i have been up at the captain 's house , and have represented faithfully to the captain what you said , relating to you being furnished with better conveniences for yourself and your husband ; and the captain has sent this gentleman , who is made of the ship , down with me , on purpose to show you everything , and to accommodate you fully to your content , and bid me assure you that you shall not be treated like what you were at first expected to be , but with the same respect as other passengers are treated . '
the mate then spoke to me , and , not giving me time to thank the boatswain for his kindness , confirmed what the boatswain had said , and added that it was the captain 's delight to show himself kind and charitable , especially to those that were under any misfortunes , and with that he showed me several cabins built up , some in the great cabin , and some partitioned off , out of the steerage , but opening into the great cabin on purpose for the accommodation of passengers , and gave me leave to choose where i would .
however , i chose a cabin which opened into the steerage , in which was very good conveniences to set our chest and boxes , and a table to eat on .
the mate then told me that the boatswain had given so good a character of me and my husband , as to our civil behaviour , that he had orders to tell me we should eat with him , if we thought fit , during the whole voyage , on the common terms of passengers ; that we might lay in some fresh provisions , if we pleased ; or if not , he should lay in his usual store , and we should have share with him .
this was very reviving news to me , after so many hardships and afflictions as i had gone through of late . i thanked him , and told him the captain should make his own terms with us , and asked him leave to go and tell my husband of it , who was not very well , and was not yet out of his cabin .
accordingly i went , and my husband , whose spirits were still so much sunk with the indignity ( as he understood it ) offered him , that he was scare yet himself , was so revived with the account that i gave him of the reception we were like to have in the ship , that he was quite another man , and new vigour and courage appeared in his very countenance . so true is it , that the greatest of spirits , when overwhelmed by their afflictions , are subject to the greatest dejections , and are the most apt to despair and give themselves up .
after some little pause to recover himself , my husband came up with me , and gave the mate thanks for the kindness , which he had expressed to us , and sent suitable acknowledgment by him to the captain , offering to pay him by advance , whatever he demanded for our passage , and for the conveniences he had helped us to .
the mate told him that the captain would be on board in the afternoon , and that he would leave all that till he came .
accordingly , in the afternoon the captain came , and we found him the same courteous , obliging man that the boatswain had represented him to be ; and he was so well pleased with my husband 's conversation , that , in short , he would not let us keep the cabin we had chosen , but gave us one that , as i said before , opened into the great cabin . nor were his conditions exorbitant , or the man craving and eager to make a prey of us , but for fifteen guineas we had our whole passage and provisions and cabin , ate at the captain 's table , and were very handsomely entertained .
all this while i had provided nothing for our assistance when we should come to the place and begin to call ourselves planters ; and i was far from being ignorant of what was needful on that occasion ; particularly all sorts of tools for the planter 's work , and for building ; and all kinds of furniture for our dwelling , which , if to be bought in the country , must necessarily cost double the price .
so i discoursed that point with my governess , and she went and waited upon the captain , and told him that she hoped ways might be found out for her two unfortunate cousins , as she called us , to obtain our freedom when we came into the country , and so entered into a discourse with him about the means and terms also , of which i shall say more in its place ; and after thus sounding the captain , she let him know , though we were unhappy in the circumstances that occasioned our going , yet that we were not unfurnished to set ourselves to work in the country , and we resolved to settle and live there as planters , if we might be put in a way how to do it .
the captain readily offered his assistance , told her the method of entering upon such business , and how easy , nay , how certain it was for industrious people to recover their fortunes in such a manner . ' madam , ' says he , " tis no reproach to any many in that country to have been sent over in worse circumstances than i perceive your cousins are in , provided they do but apply with diligence and good judgment to the business of that place when they come there . '
and then she begged his assistance in it . she told him she would furnish us with everything that was convenient whatever it cost her . he accordingly gave her a long particular of things necessary for a planter , which , by his account , came to about fourscore or a hundred pounds .
and , in short , she went about as dexterously to buy them , as if she had been an old virginia merchant ; only that she bought , by my direction , above twice as much of everything as he had given her a list of .
these she put on board in her own name , took his bills of loading for them , and endorsed those bills of loading to my husband , insuring the cargo afterwards in her own name , by our order ; so that we were provided for all events , and for all disasters .
i should have told you that my husband gave her all his whole stock of # 108 , which , as i have said , he had about him in gold , to lay out thus , and i gave her a good sum besides ; so that i did not break into the stock which i had left in her hands at all , but after we had sorted out our whole cargo , we had yet near # 200 in money , which was more than enough for our purpose .
in this condition , very cheerful , and indeed joyful at being so happily accommodated as we were , we set sail from bugby 's hole to gravesend , where the ship lay about ten more days , and where the captain came on board for good and all .
here the captain offered us a civility , which indeed we had no reason to expect , namely , to let us go on shore and refresh ourselves , upon giving our words in a solemn manner that we would not go from him , and that we would return peaceably on board again .
indeed , the captain had assurance enough of our resolutions to go , for that having made such provision to settle there , it did not seem rational that we would choose to remain here at the expense and peril of life , for such it must have been if we had been taken again .
in a word , we went all on shore with the captain , and supped together in gravesend , where we were very merry , stayed all night , lay at the house where we supped , and came all very honestly on board again with him in the morning .
here we bought ten dozen bottles of good beer , some wine , some fowls , and such things as we thought might be acceptable on board .
my governess was with us all this while , and went with us round into the downs , as did also the captain 's wife , with whom she went back .
i was never so sorrowful at parting with my own mother as i was at parting with her , and i never saw her more .
we had a fair easterly wind sprung up the third day after we came to the downs , and we sailed from thence the 10th of april . nor did we touch any more at any place , till , being driven on the coast of ireland by a very hard gale of wind , the ship came to an anchor in a little bay , near the mouth of a river , whose name i remember not , but they said the river came down from limerick , and that it was the largest river in ireland .
here , being detained by bad weather for some time , the captain , who continued the same kind , good-humoured man as at first , took us two on shore with him again .
he did it now in kindness to my husband indeed , who bore the sea very ill , and was very sick , especially when it blew so hard .
here we bought in again a store of fresh provisions , especially beef , pork , mutton , and fowls , and the captain stayed to pickle up five or six barrels of beef to lengthen out the ship 's store .
we were here not above five days , when the weather turning mild , and a fair wind , we set sail again , and in two-and-forty days came safe to the coast of virginia .
when we drew near to the shore , the captain called me to him , and told me that he found by my discourse i had some relations in the place , and that i had been there before , and so he supposed i understood the custom in their disposing the convict prisoners when they arrived .
i told him i did not , and that as to what relations i had in the place , he might be sure i would make myself known to none of them while i was in the circumstances of a prisoner , and that as to the rest , we left ourselves entirely to him to assist us , as he was pleased to promise us he would do .
he told me i must get somebody in the place to come and buy us as servants , and who must answer for us to the governor of the country , if he demanded us .
i told him we should do as he should direct ; so he brought a planter to treat with him , as it were , for the purchase of these two servants , my husband and me , and there we were formally sold to him , and went ashore with him .
the captain went with us , and carried us to a certain house , whether it was to be called a tavern or not i know not , but we had a bowl of punch there made of rum , etc . , and were very merry .
after some time the planter gave us a certificate of discharge , and an acknowledgment of having served him faithfully , and we were free from him the next morning , to go wither we would .
for this piece of service the captain demanded of us six thousand weight of tabacco , which he said he was accountable for to his freighter , and which we immediately bought for him , and made him a present of twenty guineas besides , with which he was abundantly satisfied .
it is not proper to enter here into the particulars of what part of the colony of virginia we settled in , for divers reasons ; it may suffice to mention that we went into the great river potomac , the ship being bound thither ; and there we intended to have settled first , though afterwards we altered our minds .
the first thing i did of moment after having gotten all our goods on shore , and placed them in a storehouse , or warehouse , which , with a lodging , we hired at the small place or village where we landed--i say , the first thing was to inquire after my mother , and after my brother ( that fatal person whom i married as a husband , as i have related at large ) .
a little inquiry furnished me with information that mrs. ---- , that is , my mother , was dead ; that my brother ( or husband ) was alive , which i confess i was not very glad to hear ; but which was worse , i found he was removed from the plantation where he lived formerly , and where i lived with him , and lived with one of his sons in a plantation just by the place where we landed , and where we had hired a warehouse .
i was a little surprised at first , but as i ventured to satisfy myself that he could not know me , i was not only perfectly easy , but had a great mind to see him , if it was possible to so do without his seeing me .
in order to that i found out by inquiry the plantation where he lived , and with a woman of that place whom i got to help me , like what we call a chairwoman , i rambled about towards the place as if i had only a mind to see the country and look about me .
at last i came so near that i saw the dwellinghouse .
i asked the woman whose plantation that was ; she said it belonged to such a man , and looking out a little to our right hands , ' there , ' says she , is the gentleman that owns the plantation , and his father with him . '
'what are their christian names ? ' said i .
'i know not , ' says she , ' what the old gentleman 's name is , but the son 's name is humphrey ; and i believe , ' says she , ' the father 's is so too . '
you may guess , if you can , what a confused mixture of joy and fight possessed my thoughts upon this occasion , for i immediately knew that this was nobody else but my own son , by that father she showed me , who was my own brother .
i had no mask , but i ruffled my hood so about my face , that i depended upon it that after above twenty years ' absence , and withal not expecting anything of me in that part of the world , he would not be able to know anything of me .
but i need not have used all that caution , for the old gentleman was grown dim-sighted by some distemper which had fallen upon his eyes , and could but just see well enough to walk about , and not run against a tree or into a ditch .
the woman that was with me had told me that by a mere accident , knowing nothing of what importance it was to me .
as they drew near to us , i said , ' does he know you , mrs. owen ? ' ( so they called the woman ) .
'yes , ' said she , ' if he hears me speak , he will know me ; but he can 't see well enough to know me or anybody else ' ; and so she told me the story of his sight , as i have related .
this made me secure , and so i threw open my hoods again , and let them pass by me .
it was a wretched thing for a mother thus to see her own son , a handsome , comely young gentleman in flourishing circumstances , and durst not make herself known to him , and durst not take any notice of him .
let any mother of children that reads this consider it , and but think with what anguish of mind i restrained myself ; what yearnings of soul i had in me to embrace him , and weep over him ; and how i thought all my entrails turned within me , that my very bowels moved , and i knew not what to do , as i now know not how to express those agonies !
when he went from me i stood gazing and trembling , and looking after him as long as i could see him ; then sitting down to rest me , but turned from her , and lying on my face , wept , and kissed the ground that he had set his foot on .
i could not conceal my disorder so much from the woman but that she perceived it , and thought i was not well , which i was obliged to pretend was true ; upon which she pressed me to rise , the ground being damp and dangerous , which i did accordingly , and walked away .
as i was going back again , and still talking of this gentleman and his son , a new occasion of melancholy offered itself thus .
the woman began , as if she would tell me a story to divert me : ' there goes , ' says she , ' a very odd tale among the neighbours where this gentleman formerly live . '
'what was that ? ' said i .
'why , ' says she , ' that old gentleman going to england , when he was a young man , fell in love with a young lady there , one of the finest women that ever was seen , and married her , and brought her over hither to his mother who was then living .
he lived here several years with her , ' continued she , ' and had several children by her , of which the young gentleman that was with him now was one ; but after some time , the old gentlewoman , his mother , talking to her of something relating to herself when she was in england , and of her circumstances in england , which were bad enough , the daughter-in-law began to be very much surprised and uneasy ; and , in short , examining further into things , it appeared past all contradiction that the old gentlewoman was her own mother , and that consequently that son was his wife 's own brother , which struck the whole family with horror , and put them into such confusion that it had almost ruined them all . the young woman would not live with him ; the son , her brother and husband , for a time went distracted ; and at last the young woman went away for england , and has never been heard of since . '
it is easy to believe that i was strangely affected with this story , but ' tis impossible to describe the nature of my disturbance . i seemed astonished at the story , and asked her a thousand questions about the particulars , which i found she was thoroughly acquainted with .
at last i began to inquire into the circumstances of the family , how the old gentlewoman , i mean my mother , died , and how she left what she had ; for my mother had promised me very solemnly , that when she died she would do something for me , and leave it so , as that , if i was living , i should one way or other come at it , without its being in the power of her son , my brother and husband , to prevent it .
she told me she did not know exactly how it was ordered , but she had been told that my mother had left a sum of money , and had tied her plantation for the payment of it , to be made good to the daughter , if ever she could be heard of , either in england or elsewhere ; and that the trust was left with this son , who was the person that we saw with his father .
this was news too good for me to make light of , and , you may be sure , filled my heart with a thousand thoughts , what course i should take , how , and when , and in what manner i should make myself known , or whether i should ever make myself know or no .
here was a perplexity that i had not indeed skill to manage myself in , neither knew i what course to take . it lay heavy upon my mind night and day . i could neither sleep nor converse , so that my husband perceived it , and wondered what ailed me , strove to divert me , but it was all to no purpose . he pressed me to tell him what it was troubled me , but i put it off , till at last , importuning me continually , i was forced to form a story , which yet had a plain truth to lay it upon too . i told him i was troubled because i found we must shift our quarters and alter our scheme of settling , for that i found i should be known if i stayed in that part of the country ; for that my mother being dead , several of my relations were come into that part where we then was , and that i must either discover myself to them , which in our present circumstances was not proper on many accounts , or remove ; and which to do i knew not , and that this it was that made me so melancholy and so thoughtful .
he joined with me in this , that it was by no means proper for me to make myself known to anybody in the circumstances in which we then were ; and therefore he told me he would be willing to remove to any other part of the country , or even to any other country if i thought fit .
but now i had another difficulty , which was , that if i removed to any other colony , i put myself out of the way of ever making a due search after those effects which my mother had left . again i could never so much as think of breaking the secret of my former marriage to my new husband ; it was not a story , as i thought , that would bear telling , nor could i tell what might be the consequences of it ; and it was impossible to search into the bottom of the thing without making it public all over the country , as well who i was , as what i now was also .
in this perplexity i continued a great while , and this made my spouse very uneasy ; for he found me perplexed , and yet thought i was not open with him , and did not let him into every part of my grievance ; and he would often say , he wondered what he had done that i would not trust him with whatever it was , especially if it was grievous and afflicting .
the truth is , he ought to have been trusted with everything , for no man in the world could deserve better of a wife ; but this was a thing i knew not how to open to him , and yet having nobody to disclose any part of it to , the burthen was too heavy for my mind ; for let them say what they please of our sex not being able to keep a secret , my life is a plain conviction to me of the contrary ; but be it our sex , or the man 's sex , a secret of moment should always have a confidant , a bosom friend , to whom we may communicate the joy of it , or the grief of it , be it which it will , or it will be a double weight upon the spirits , and perhaps become even insupportable in itself ; and this i appeal to all human testimony for the truth of .
under the certain oppression of this weight upon my mind , i laboured in the case i have been naming ; and the only relief i found for it was to let my husband into so much of it as i thought would convince him of the necessity there was for us to think of settling in some other part of the world ; and the next consideration before us was , which part of the english settlements we should go to .
my husband was a perfect stranger to the country , and had not yet so much as a geographical knowledge of the situation of the several places ; and i , that , till i wrote this , did not know what the word geographical signified , had only a general knowledge from long conversation with people that came from or went to several places ; but this i knew , that maryland , pennsylvania , east and west jersey , new york , and new england lay all north of virginia , and that they were consequently all colder climates , to which for that very reason , i had an aversion . for that as i naturally loved warm weather , so now i grew into years i had a stronger inclination to shun a cold climate .
i therefore considered of going to caroline , which is the only southern colony of the english on the continent of america , and hither i proposed to go ; and the rather because i might with great ease come from thence at any time , when it might be proper to inquire after my mother 's effects , and to make myself known enough to demand them .
but now i found a new difficulty upon me . the main affair grew heavy upon my mind still , and i could not think of going out of the country without somehow or other making inquiry into the grand affair of what my mother had done for me ; nor could i with any patience bear the thought of going away , and not make myself known to my old husband ( brother ) , or to my child , his son ; only i would fain have had this done without my new husband having any knowledge of it , or they having any knowledge of him , or that i had such a thing as a husband .
i cast about innumerable ways in my thoughts how this might be done .
i would gladly have sent my husband away to caroline with all our goods , and have come after myself , but this was impracticable ; he would never stir without me , being himself perfectly unacquainted with the country , and with the methods of settling there or anywhere else .
then i thought we would both go first with part of our goods , and that when we were settled i should come back to virginia and fetch the remainder ; but even then i knew he would never part with me , and be left there to go on alone . the case was plain ; he was bred a gentleman , and by consequence was not only unacquainted , but indolent , and when we did settle , would much rather go out into the woods with his gun , which they call there hunting , and which is the ordinary work of the indians , and which they do as servants ; i say , he would rather do that than attend the natural business of his plantation .
these were therefore difficulties insurmountable , and such as i knew not what to do in . i had such strong impressions on my mind about discovering myself to my brother , formerly my husband , that i could not withstand them ; and the rather , because it ran constantly in my thoughts , that if i did not do it while he lived , i might in vain endeavour to convince my son afterward that i was really the same person , and that i was his mother , and so might both lose the assistance and comfort of the relation , and the benefit of whatever it was my mother had left me ; and yet , on the other hand , i could never think it proper to discover myself to them in the circumstances i was in , as well relating to the having a husband with me as to my being brought over by a legal transportation as a criminal ; on both which accounts it was absolutely necessary to me to remove from the place where i was , and come again to him , as from another place and in another figure .
upon those considerations , i went on with telling my husband the absolute necessity there was of our not settling in potomac river , at least that we should be presently made public there ; whereas if we went to any other place in the world , we should come in with as much reputation as any family that came to plant ; that , as it was always agreeable to the inhabitants to have families come among them to plant , who brought substance with them , either to purchase plantations or begin new ones , so we should be sure of a kind , agreeable reception , and that without any possibility of a discovery of our circumstances .
i told him in general , too , that as i had several relations in the place where we were , and that i durst not now let myself be known to them , because they would soon come into a knowledge of the occasion and reason of my coming over , which would be to expose myself to the last degree , so i had reason to believe that my mother , who died here , had left me something , and perhaps considerable , which it might be very well worth my while to inquire after ; but that this too could not be done without exposing us publicly , unless we went from hence ; and then , wherever we settled , i might come , as it were , to visit and to see my brother and nephews , make myself known to them , claim and inquire after what was my due , be received with respect , and at the same time have justice done me with cheerfulness and good will ; whereas , if i did it now , i could expect nothing but with trouble , such as exacting it by force , receiving it with curses and reluctance , and with all kinds of affronts , which he would not perhaps bear to see ; that in case of being obliged to legal proofs of being really her daughter , i might be at loss , be obliged to have recourse to england , and it may be to fail at last , and so lose it , whatever it might be .
with these arguments , and having thus acquainted my husband with the whole secret so far as was needful of him , we resolved to go and seek a settlement in some other colony , and at first thoughts , caroline was the place we pitched upon .
in order to this we began to make inquiry for vessels going to carolina , and in a very little while got information , that on the other side the bay , as they call it , namely , in maryland , there was a ship which came from carolina , laden with rice and other goods , and was going back again thither , and from thence to jamaica , with provisions .
on this news we hired a sloop to take in our goods , and taking , as it were , a final farewell of potomac river , we went with all our cargo over to maryland .
this was a long and unpleasant voyage , and my spouse said it was worse to him than all the voyage from england , because the weather was but indifferent , the water rough , and the vessel small and inconvenient . in the next place , we were full a hundred miles up potomac river , in a part which they call westmoreland county , and as that river is by far the greatest in virginia , and i have heard say it is the greatest river in the world that falls into another river , and not directly into the sea , so we had base weather in it , and were frequently in great danger ; for though we were in the middle , we could not see land on either side for many leagues together .
then we had the great river or bay of chesapeake to cross , which is where the river potomac falls into it , near thirty miles broad , and we entered more great vast waters whose names i know not , so that our voyage was full two hundred miles , in a poor , sorry sloop , with all our treasure , and if any accident had happened to us , we might at last have been very miserable ; supposing we had lost our goods and saved our lives only , and had then been left naked and destitute , and in a wild , strange place not having one friend or acquaintance in all that part of the world .
the very thought of it gives me some horror , even since the danger is past .
well , we came to the place in five days ' sailing ; i think they call it philip 's point ; and behold , when we came thither , the ship bound to carolina was loaded and gone away but three days before .
this was a disappointment ; but , however , i , that was to be discouraged with nothing , told my husband that since we could not get passage to caroline , and that the country we was in was very fertile and good , we would , if he liked of it , see if we could find out anything for our tune where we was , and that if he liked things we would settle here .
we immediately went on shore , but found no conveniences just at that place , either for our being on shore or preserving our goods on shore , but was directed by a very honest quaker , whom we found there , to go to a place about sixty miles east ; that is to say , nearer the mouth of the bay , where he said he lived , and where we should be accommodated , either to plant , or to wait for any other place to plant in that might be more convenient ; and he invited us with so much kindness and simple honesty , that we agreed to go , and the quaker himself went with us .
here we bought us two servants , viz. an english woman-servant just come on shore from a ship of liverpool , and a negro man-servant , things absolutely necessary for all people that pretended to settle in that country .
this honest quaker was very helpful to us , and when we came to the place that he proposed to us , found us out a convenient storehouse for our goods , and lodging for ourselves and our servants ; and about two months or thereabouts afterwards , by his direction , we took up a large piece of land from the governor of that country , in order to form our plantation , and so we laid the thoughts of going to caroline wholly aside , having been very well received here , and accommodated with a convenient lodging till we could prepare things , and have land enough cleared , and timber and materials provided for building us a house , all which we managed by the direction of the quaker ; so that in one year 's time we had nearly fifty acres of land cleared , part of it enclosed , and some of it planted with tabacco , though not much ; besides , we had garden ground and corn sufficient to help supply our servants with roots and herbs and bread .
and now i persuaded my husband to let me go over the bay again , and inquire after my friends . he was the willinger to consent to it now , because he had business upon his hands sufficient to employ him , besides his gun to divert him , which they call hunting there , and which he greatly delighted in ; and indeed we used to look at one another , sometimes with a great deal of pleasure , reflecting how much better that was , not than newgate only , but than the most prosperous of our circumstances in the wicked trade that we had been both carrying on .
our affair was in a very good posture ; we purchased of the proprietors of the colony as much land for # 35 , paid in ready money , as would make a sufficient plantation to employ between fifty and sixty servants , and which , being well improved , would be sufficient to us as long as we could either of us live ; and as for children , i was past the prospect of anything of that kind .
but out good fortune did not end here . i went , as i have said , over the bay , to the place where my brother , once a husband , lived ; but i did not go to the same village where i was before , but went up another great river , on the east side of the river potomac , called rappahannock river , and by this means came on the back of his plantation , which was large , and by the help of a navigable creek , or little river , that ran into the rappahannock , i came very near it .
i was now fully resolved to go up point-blank to my brother ( husband ) , and to tell him who i was ; but not knowing what temper i might find him in , or how much out of temper rather , i might make him by such a rash visit , i resolved to write a letter to him first , to let him know who i was , and that i was come not to give him any trouble upon the old relation , which i hoped was entirely forgot , but that i applied to him as a sister to a brother , desiring his assistance in the case of that provision which our mother , at her decease , had left for my support , and which i did not doubt but he would do me justice in , especially considering that i was come thus far to look after it .
i said some very tender , kind things in the letter about his son , which i told him he knew to be my own child , and that as i was guilty of nothing in marrying him , any more than he was in marrying me , neither of us having then known our being at all related to one another , so i hoped he would allow me the most passionate desire of once seeing my one and only child , and of showing something of the infirmities of a mother in preserving a violent affect for him , who had never been able to retain any thought of me one way or other .
i did believe that , having received this letter , he would immediately give it to his son to read , i having understood his eyes being so dim , that he could not see to read it ; but it fell out better than so , for as his sight was dim , so he had allowed his son to open all letters that came to his hand for him , and the old gentleman being from home , or out of the way when my messenger came , my letter came directly to my son 's hand , and he opened and read it .
he called the messenger in , after some little stay , and asked him where the person was who gave him the letter .
the messenger told him the place , which was about seven miles off , so he bid him stay , and ordering a horse to be got ready , and two servants , away he came to me with the messenger .
let any one judge the consternation i was in when my messenger came back , and told me the old gentleman was not at home , but his son was come along with him , and was just coming up to me .
i was perfectly confounded , for i knew not whether it was peace or war , nor could i tell how to behave ; however , i had but a very few moments to think , for my son was at the heels of the messenger , and coming up into my lodgings , asked the fellow at the door something .
i suppose it was , for i did not hear it so as to understand it , which was the gentlewoman that sent him ; for the messenger said , ' there she is , sir ' ; at which he comes directly up to me , kisses me , took me in his arms , and embraced me with so much passion that he could not speak , but i could feel his breast heave and throb like a child , that cries , but sobs , and cannot cry it out .
i can neither express nor describe the joy that touched my very soul when i found , for it was easy to discover that part , that he came not as a stranger , but as a son to a mother , and indeed as a son who had never before known what a mother of his own was ; in short , we cried over one another a considerable while , when at last he broke out first .
'my dear mother , ' says he , ' are you still alive ?
i never expected to have seen your face . '
as for me , i could say nothing a great while .
after we had both recovered ourselves a little , and were able to talk , he told me how things stood .
as to what i had written to his father , he told me he had not showed my letter to his father , or told him anything about it ; that what his grandmother left me was in his hands , and that he would do me justice to my full satisfaction ; that as to his father , he was old and infirm both in body and mind ; that he was very fretful and passionate , almost blind , and capable of nothing ; and he questioned whether he would know how to act in an affair which was of so nice a nature as this ; and that therefore he had come himself , as well to satisfy himself in seeing me , which he could not restrain himself from , as also to put it into my power to make a judgment , after i had seen how things were , whether i would discover myself to his father or no .
this was really so prudently and wisely managed , that i found my son was a man of sense , and needed no direction from me .
i told him i did not wonder that his father was as he had described him , for that his head was a little touched before i went away ; and principally his disturbance was because i could not be persuaded to conceal our relation and to live with him as my husband , after i knew that he was my brother ; that as he knew better than i what his father 's present condition was , i should readily join with him in such measure as he would direct ; that i was indifferent as to seeing his father , since i had seen him first , and he could not have told me better news than to tell me that what his grandmother had left me was entrusted in his hands , who , i doubted not , now he knew who i was , would , as he said , do me justice .
i inquired then how long my mother had been dead , and where she died , and told so many particulars of the family , that i left him no room to doubt the truth of my being really and truly his mother .
my son then inquired where i was , and how i had disposed myself .
i told him i was on the maryland side of the bay , at the plantation of a particular friend who came from england in the same ship with me ; that as for that side of the bay where he was , i had no habitation .
he told me i should go home with him , and live with him , if i pleased , as long as i lived ; that as to his father , he knew nobody , and would never so much as guess at me .
i considered of that a little , and told him , that though it was really no concern to me to live at a distance from him , yet i could not say it would be the most comfortable thing in the world to me to live in the house with him , and to have that unhappy object always before me , which had been such a blow to my peace before ; that though i should be glad to have his company ( my son ) , or to be as near him as possible while i stayed , yet i could not think of being in the house where i should be also under constant restraint for fear of betraying myself in my discourse , nor should i be able to refrain some expressions in my conversing with him as my son , that might discover the whole affair , which would by no means be convenient .
he acknowledged that i was right in all this .
'but then , dear mother , ' says he , ' you shall be as near me as you can . '
so he took me with him on horseback to a plantation next to his own , and where i was as well entertained as i could have been in his own .
having left me there he went away home , telling me we would talk of the main business the next day ; and having first called me his aunt , and given a charge to the people , who it seems were his tenants , to treat me with all possible respect . about two hours after he was gone , he sent me a maid-servant and a negro boy to wait on me , and provisions ready dressed for my supper ; and thus i was as if i had been in a new world , and began secretly now to wish that i had not brought my lancashire husband from england at all .
however , that wish was not hearty neither , for i loved my lancashire husband entirely , as indeed i had ever done from the beginning ; and he merited from me as much as it was possible for a man to do ; but that by the way .
the next morning my son came to visit me again almost as soon as i was up .
after a little discourse , he first of all pulled out a deerskin bag , and gave it me , with five-and-fifty spanish pistoles in it , and told me that was to supply my expenses from england , for though it was not his business to inquire , yet he ought to think i did not bring a great deal of money out with me , it not being usual to bring much money into that country . then he pulled out his grandmother 's will , and read it over to me , whereby it appeared that she had left a small plantation , as he called it , on york river , that is , where my mother lived , to me , with the stock of servants and cattle upon it , and given it in trust to this son of mine for my use , whenever he should hear of my being alive , and to my heirs , if i had any children , and in default of heirs , to whomsoever i should by will dispose of it ; but gave the income of it , till i should be heard of , or found , to my said son ; and if i should not be living , then it was to him , and his heirs .
this plantation , though remote from him , he said he did not let out , but managed it by a head-clerk ( steward ) , as he did another that was his father 's , that lay hard by it , and went over himself three or four times a year to look after it .
i asked him what he thought the plantation might be worth . he said , if i would let it out , he would give me about # 60 a year for it ; but if i would live on it , then it would be worth much more , and , he believed , would bring me in about # 150 a year .
but seeing i was likely either to settle on the other side of the bay , or might perhaps have a mind to go back to england again , if i would let him be my steward he would manage it for me , as he had done for himself , and that he believed he should be able to send me as much tobacco to england from it as would yield me about # 100 a year , sometimes more .
but i leave the reader to improve these thoughts , as no doubt they will see cause , and i go on to the fact . my son 's tender carriage and kind offers fetched tears from me , almost all the while he talked with me .
indeed , i could scarce discourse with him but in the intervals of my passion ; however , at length i began , and expressing myself with wonder at my being so happy to have the trust of what i had left , put into the hands of my own child , i told him , that as to the inheritance of it , i had no child but him in the world , and was now past having any if i should marry , and therefore would desire him to get a writing drawn , which i was ready to execute , by which i would , after me , give it wholly to him and to his heirs .
and in the meantime , smiling , i asked him what made him continue a bachelor so long .
his answer was kind and ready , that virginia did not yield any great plenty of wives , and that since i talked of going back to england , i should send him a wife from london .
this was the substance of our first day 's conversation , the pleasantest day that ever passed over my head in my life , and which gave me the truest satisfaction .
he came every day after this , and spent a great part of his time with me , and carried me about to several of his friends ' houses , where i was entertained with great respect .
also i dined several times at his own house , when he took care always to see his half-dead father so out of the way that i never saw him , or he me . i made him one present , and it was all i had of value , and that was one of the gold watches , of which i mentioned above , that i had two in my chest , and this i happened to have with me , and i gave it him at his third visit . i told him i had nothing of any value to bestow but that , and i desired he would now and then kiss it for my sake .
i did not indeed tell him that i had stole it from a gentlewoman 's side , at a meeting-house in london . that 's by the way .
he stood a little while hesitating , as if doubtful whether to take it or no ; but i pressed it on him , and made him accept it , and it was not much less worth than his leather pouch full of spanish gold ; no , though it were to be reckoned as if at london , whereas it was worth twice as much there , where i gave it him .
at length he took it , kissed it , told me the watch should be a debt upon him that he would be paying as long as i lived .
a few days after he brought the writings of gift , and the scrivener with them , and i signed them very freely , and delivered them to him with a hundred kisses ; for sure nothing ever passed between a mother and a tender , dutiful child with more affection .
the next day he brings me an obligation under his hand and seal , whereby he engaged himself to manage and improve the plantation for my account , and with his utmost skill , and to remit the produce to my order wherever i should be ; and withal , to be obliged himself to make up the produce # 100 a year to me .
when he had done so , he told me that as i came to demand it before the crop was off , i had a right to produce of the current year , and so he paid me # 100 in spanish pieces of eight , and desired me to give him a receipt for it as in full for that year , ending at christmas following ; this being about the latter end of august .
i stayed here about five weeks , and indeed had much ado to get away then . nay , he would have come over the bay with me , but i would by no means allow him to it . however , he would send me over in a sloop of his own , which was built like a yacht , and served him as well for pleasure as business .
this i accepted of , and so , after the utmost expressions both of duty and affection , he let me come away , and i arrived safe in two days at my friend 's the quaker 's .
i brought over with me for the use of our plantation , three horses , with harness and saddles , some hogs , two cows , and a thousand other things , the gift of the kindest and tenderest child that ever woman had .
i related to my husband all the particulars of this voyage , except that i called my son my cousin ; and first i told him that i had lost my watch , which he seemed to take as a misfortune ; but then i told him how kind my cousin had been , that my mother had left me such a plantation , and that he had preserved it for me , in hopes some time or other he should hear from me ; then i told him that i had left it to his management , that he would render me a faithful account of its produce ; and then i pulled him out the # 100 in silver , as the first year 's produce ; and then pulling out the deerskin purse with the pistoles , ' and here , my dear , ' says i , ' is the gold watch . '
my husband--so is heaven 's goodness sure to work the same effects in all sensible minds where mercies touch the heart--lifted up both hands , and with an ecstacy of joy , ' what is god a-doing , ' says he , ' for such an ungrateful dog as i am ! '
then i let him know what i had brought over in the sloop , besides all this ; i mean the horses , hogs , and cows , and other stores for our plantation ; all which added to his surprise , and filled his heart with thankfulness ; and from this time forward i believe he was as sincere a penitent , and as thoroughly a reformed man , as ever god 's goodness brought back from a profligate , a highwayman , and a robber .
we went on with our plantation , and managed it with the help and diversion of such friends as we got there by our obliging behaviour , and especially the honest quaker , who proved a faithful , generous , and steady friend to us ; and we had very good success , for having a flourishing stock to begin with , as i have said , and this being now increased by the addition of # 150 sterling in money , we enlarged our number of servants , built us a very good house , and cured every year a great deal of land .
the second year i wrote to my old governess , giving her part with us of the joy of our success , and order her how to lay out the money i had left with her , which was # 250 as above , and to send it to us in goods , which she performed with her usual kindness and fidelity , and this arrived safe to us .
here we had a supply of all sorts of clothes , as well for my husband as for myself ; and i took especial care to buy for him all those things that i knew he delighted to have ; as two good long wigs , two silver-hilted swords , three or four fine fowling-pieces , a find saddle with holsters and pistols very handsome , with a scarlet cloak ; and , in a word , everything i could think of to oblige him , and to make him appear , as he really was , a very fine gentleman .
i ordered a good quantity of such household stuff as we yet wanted , with linen of all sorts for us both . as for myself , i wanted very little of clothes or linen , being very well furnished before . the rest of my cargo consisted in iron-work of all sorts , harness for horses , tools , clothes for servants , and woollen cloth , stuffs , serges , stockings , shoes , hats , and the like , such as servants wear ; and whole pieces also to make up for servants , all by direction of the quaker ; and all this cargo arrived safe , and in good condition , with three woman-servants , lusty wenches , which my old governess had picked for me , suitable enough to the place , and to the work we had for them to do ; one of which happened to come double , having been got with child by one of the seamen in the ship , as she owned afterwards , before the ship got so far as gravesend ; so she brought us a stout boy , about seven months after her landing .
my husband , you may suppose , was a little surprised at the arriving of all this cargo from england ; and talking with me after he saw the account of this particular , ' my dear , ' says he , ' what is the meaning of all this ?
i fear you will run us too deep in debt : when shall we be able to make return for it all ? '
i smiled , and told him that is was all paid for ; and then i told him , that what our circumstances might expose us to , i had not taken my whole stock with me , that i had reserved so much in my friend 's hands , which now we were come over safe , and was settled in a way to live , i had sent for , as he might see .
he was amazed , and stood a while telling upon his fingers , but said nothing .
at last he began thus : ' hold , let 's see , ' says he , telling upon his fingers still , and first on his thumb ; ' there 's # 246 in money at first , then two gold watches , diamond rings , and plate , ' says he , upon the forefinger . then upon the next finger , ' here 's a plantation on york river , # 100 a year , then # 150 in money , then a sloop load of horses , cows , hogs , and stores ' ; and so on to the thumb again . ' and now , ' says he , ' a cargo cost # 250 in england , and worth here twice the money . '
'well , ' says i , ' what do you make of all that ? '
'make of it ? ' says he ; ' why , who says i was deceived when i married a wife in lancashire ?
i think i have married a fortune , and a very good fortune too , ' says he .
in a word , we were now in very considerable circumstances , and every year increasing ; for our new plantation grew upon our hands insensibly , and in eight years which we lived upon it , we brought it to such pitch , that the produce was at least # 300 sterling a year ; i mean , worth so much in england .
after i had been a year at home again , i went over the bay to see my son , and to receive another year 's income of my plantation ; and i was surprised to hear , just at my landing there , that my old husband was dead , and had not been buried above a fortnight .
this , i confess , was not disagreeable news , because now i could appear as i was , in a married condition ; so i told my son before i came from him , that i believed i should marry a gentleman who had a plantation near mine ; and though i was legally free to marry , as to any obligation that was on me before , yet that i was shy of it , lest the blot should some time or other be revived , and it might make a husband uneasy .
my son , the same kind , dutiful , and obliging creature as ever , treated me now at his own house , paid me my hundred pounds , and sent me home again loaded with presents .
some time after this , i let my son know i was married , and invited him over to see us , and my husband wrote a very obliging letter to him also , inviting him to come and see him ; and he came accordingly some months after , and happened to be there just when my cargo from england came in , which i let him believe belonged all to my husband 's estate , not to me .
it must be observed that when the old wretch my brother ( husband ) was dead , i then freely gave my husband an account of all that affair , and of this cousin , as i had called him before , being my own son by that mistaken unhappy match .
he was perfectly easy in the account , and told me he should have been as easy if the old man , as we called him , had been alive .
'for , ' said he , ' it was no fault of yours , nor of his ; it was a mistake impossible to be prevented . '
he only reproached him with desiring me to conceal it , and to live with him as a wife , after i knew that he was my brother ; that , he said , was a vile part .
thus all these difficulties were made easy , and we lived together with the greatest kindness and comfort imaginable . we are grown old ; i am come back to england , being almost seventy years of age , husband sixty-eight , having performed much more than the limited terms of my transportation ; and now , notwithstanding all the fatigues and all the miseries we have both gone through , we are both of us in good heart and health .
my husband remained there some time after me to settle our affairs , and at first i had intended to go back to him , but at his desire i altered that resolution , and he is come over to england also , where we resolve to spend the remainder of our years in sincere penitence for the wicked lives we have lived .
the life and adventures of robinson crusoe
daniel defoe
i was born in the year 1632 , in the city of york , of a good family , though not of that country , my father being a foreigner of bremen , who settled first at hull .
he got a good estate by merchandise , and leaving off his trade , lived afterwards at york , from whence he had married my mother , whose relations were named robinson , a very good family in that country , and from whom i was called robinson kreutznaer ; but , by the usual corruption of words in england , we are now called - nay we call ourselves and write our name - crusoe ; and so my companions always called me .
i had two elder brothers , one of whom was lieutenant-colonel to an english regiment of foot in flanders , formerly commanded by the famous colonel lockhart , and was killed at the battle near dunkirk against the spaniards . what became of my second brother i never knew , any more than my father or mother knew what became of me .
being the third son of the family and not bred to any trade , my head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts .
my father , who was very ancient , had given me a competent share of learning , as far as house-education and a country free school generally go , and designed me for the law ; but i would be satisfied with nothing but going to sea ; and my inclination to this led me so strongly against the will , nay , the commands of my father , and against all the entreaties and persuasions of my mother and other friends , that there seemed to be something fatal in that propensity of nature , tending directly to the life of misery which was to befall me .
my father , a wise and grave man , gave me serious and excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design .
he called me one morning into his chamber , where he was confined by the gout , and expostulated very warmly with me upon this subject . he asked me what reasons , more than a mere wandering inclination , i had for leaving father 's house and my native country , where i might be well introduced , and had a prospect of raising my fortune by application and industry , with a life of ease and pleasure .
he told me it was men of desperate fortunes on one hand , or of aspiring , superior fortunes on the other , who went abroad upon adventures , to rise by enterprise , and make themselves famous in undertakings of a nature out of the common road ; that these things were all either too far above me or too far below me ; that mine was the middle state , or what might be called the upper station of low life , which he had found , by long experience , was the best state in the world , the most suited to human happiness , not exposed to the miseries and hardships , the labour and sufferings of the mechanic part of mankind , and not embarrassed with the pride , luxury , ambition , and envy of the upper part of mankind .
he told me i might judge of the happiness of this state by this one thing - viz. that this was the state of life which all other people envied ; that kings have frequently lamented the miserable consequence of being born to great things , and wished they had been placed in the middle of the two extremes , between the mean and the great ; that the wise man gave his testimony to this , as the standard of felicity , when he prayed to have neither poverty nor riches .
he bade me observe it , and i should always find that the calamities of life were shared among the upper and lower part of mankind , but that the middle station had the fewest disasters , and was not exposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of mankind ; nay , they were not subjected to so many distempers and uneasinesses , either of body or mind , as those were who , by vicious living , luxury , and extravagances on the one hand , or by hard labour , want of necessaries , and mean or insufficient diet on the other hand , bring distemper upon themselves by the natural consequences of their way of living ; that the middle station of life was calculated for all kind of virtue and all kind of enjoyments ; that peace and plenty were the handmaids of a middle fortune ; that temperance , moderation , quietness , health , society , all agreeable diversions , and all desirable pleasures , were the blessings attending the middle station of life ; that this way men went silently and smoothly through the world , and comfortably out of it , not embarrassed with the labours of the hands or of the head , not sold to a life of slavery for daily bread , nor harassed with perplexed circumstances , which rob the soul of peace and the body of rest , nor enraged with the passion of envy , or the secret burning lust of ambition for great things ; but , in easy circumstances , sliding gently through the world , and sensibly tasting the sweets of living , without the bitter ; feeling that they are happy , and learning by every day 's experience to know it more sensibly .
after this he pressed me earnestly , and in the most affectionate manner , not to play the young man , nor to precipitate myself into miseries which nature , and the station of life i was born in , seemed to have provided against ; that i was under no necessity of seeking my bread ; that he would do well for me , and endeavour to enter me fairly into the station of life which he had just been recommending to me ; and that if i was not very easy and happy in the world , it must be my mere fate or fault that must hinder it ; and that he should have nothing to answer for , having thus discharged his duty in warning me against measures which he knew would be to my hurt ; in a word , that as he would do very kind things for me if i would stay and settle at home as he directed , so he would not have so much hand in my misfortunes as to give me any encouragement to go away ; and to close all , he told me i had my elder brother for an example , to whom he had used the same earnest persuasions to keep him from going into the low country wars , but could not prevail , his young desires prompting him to run into the army , where he was killed ; and though he said he would not cease to pray for me , yet he would venture to say to me , that if i did take this foolish step , god would not bless me , and i should have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his counsel when there might be none to assist in my recovery .
i observed in this last part of his discourse , which was truly prophetic , though i suppose my father did not know it to be so himself - i say , i observed the tears run down his face very plentifully , especially when he spoke of my brother who was killed : and that when he spoke of my having leisure to repent , and none to assist me , he was so moved that he broke off the discourse , and told me his heart was so full he could say no more to me .
i was sincerely affected with this discourse , and , indeed , who could be otherwise ? and i resolved not to think of going abroad any more , but to settle at home according to my father 's desire .
but alas ! a few days wore it all off ; and , in short , to prevent any of my father 's further importunities , in a few weeks after i resolved to run quite away from him .
however , i did not act quite so hastily as the first heat of my resolution prompted ; but i took my mother at a time when i thought her a little more pleasant than ordinary , and told her that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing the world that i should never settle to anything with resolution enough to go through with it , and my father had better give me his consent than force me to go without it ; that i was now eighteen years old , which was too late to go apprentice to a trade or clerk to an attorney ; that i was sure if i did i should never serve out my time , but i should certainly run away from my master before my time was out , and go to sea ; and if she would speak to my father to let me go one voyage abroad , if i came home again , and did not like it , i would go no more ; and i would promise , by a double diligence , to recover the time that i had lost .
this put my mother into a great passion ; she told me she knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon any such subject ; that he knew too well what was my interest to give his consent to anything so much for my hurt ; and that she wondered how i could think of any such thing after the discourse i had had with my father , and such kind and tender expressions as she knew my father had used to me ; and that , in short , if i would ruin myself , there was no help for me ; but i might depend i should never have their consent to it ; that for her part she would not have so much hand in my destruction ; and i should never have it to say that my mother was willing when my father was not .
though my mother refused to move it to my father , yet i heard afterwards that she reported all the discourse to him , and that my father , after showing a great concern at it , said to her , with a sigh , " that boy might be happy if he would stay at home ; but if he goes abroad , he will be the most miserable wretch that ever was born : i can give no consent to it . "
it was not till almost a year after this that i broke loose , though , in the meantime , i continued obstinately deaf to all proposals of settling to business , and frequently expostulated with my father and mother about their being so positively determined against what they knew my inclinations prompted me to .
but being one day at hull , where i went casually , and without any purpose of making an elopement at that time ; but , i say , being there , and one of my companions being about to sail to london in his father 's ship , and prompting me to go with them with the common allurement of seafaring men , that it should cost me nothing for my passage , i consulted neither father nor mother any more , nor so much as sent them word of it ; but leaving them to hear of it as they might , without asking god 's blessing or my father 's , without any consideration of circumstances or consequences , and in an ill hour , god knows , on the 1st of september 1651 , i went on board a ship bound for london .
never any young adventurer 's misfortunes , i believe , began sooner , or continued longer than mine .
the ship was no sooner out of the humber than the wind began to blow and the sea to rise in a most frightful manner ; and , as i had never been at sea before , i was most inexpressibly sick in body and terrified in mind .
i began now seriously to reflect upon what i had done , and how justly i was overtaken by the judgment of heaven for my wicked leaving my father 's house , and abandoning my duty .
all the good counsels of my parents , my father 's tears and my mother 's entreaties , came now fresh into my mind ; and my conscience , which was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to which it has since , reproached me with the contempt of advice , and the breach of my duty to god and my father .
all this while the storm increased , and the sea went very high , though nothing like what i have seen many times since ; no , nor what i saw a few days after ; but it was enough to affect me then , who was but a young sailor , and had never known anything of the matter .
i expected every wave would have swallowed us up , and that every time the ship fell down , as i thought it did , in the trough or hollow of the sea , we should never rise more ; in this agony of mind , i made many vows and resolutions that if it would please god to spare my life in this one voyage , if ever i got once my foot upon dry land again , i would go directly home to my father , and never set it into a ship again while i lived ; that i would take his advice , and never run myself into such miseries as these any more .
now i saw plainly the goodness of his observations about the middle station of life , how easy , how comfortably he had lived all his days , and never had been exposed to tempests at sea or troubles on shore ; and i resolved that i would , like a true repenting prodigal , go home to my father .
these wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the storm lasted , and indeed some time after ; but the next day the wind was abated , and the sea calmer , and i began to be a little inured to it ; however , i was very grave for all that day , being also a little sea-sick still ; but towards night the weather cleared up , the wind was quite over , and a charming fine evening followed ; the sun went down perfectly clear , and rose so the next morning ; and having little or no wind , and a smooth sea , the sun shining upon it , the sight was , as i thought , the most delightful that ever i saw .
i had slept well in the night , and was now no more sea-sick , but very cheerful , looking with wonder upon the sea that was so rough and terrible the day before , and could be so calm and so pleasant in so little a time after .
and now , lest my good resolutions should continue , my companion , who had enticed me away , comes to me ; " well , bob , " says he , clapping me upon the shoulder , " how do you do after it ?
i warrant you were frighted , wer 'n't you , last night , when it blew but a capful of wind ? "
" a capful d 'you call it ? " said i ; " ' twas a terrible storm . " " a storm , you fool you , " replies he ; " do you call that a storm ? why , it was nothing at all ; give us but a good ship and sea-room , and we think nothing of such a squall of wind as that ; but you 're but a fresh-water sailor , bob .
come , let us make a bowl of punch , and we 'll forget all that ; d 'ye see what charming weather ' tis now ? "
to make short this sad part of my story , we went the way of all sailors ; the punch was made and i was made half drunk with it : and in that one night 's wickedness i drowned all my repentance , all my reflections upon my past conduct , all my resolutions for the future .
in a word , as the sea was returned to its smoothness of surface and settled calmness by the abatement of that storm , so the hurry of my thoughts being over , my fears and apprehensions of being swallowed up by the sea being forgotten , and the current of my former desires returned , i entirely forgot the vows and promises that i made in my distress .
i found , indeed , some intervals of reflection ; and the serious thoughts did , as it were , endeavour to return again sometimes ; but i shook them off , and roused myself from them as it were from a distemper , and applying myself to drinking and company , soon mastered the return of those fits - for so i called them ; and i had in five or six days got as complete a victory over conscience as any young fellow that resolved not to be troubled with it could desire .
but i was to have another trial for it still ; and providence , as in such cases generally it does , resolved to leave me entirely without excuse ; for if i would not take this for a deliverance , the next was to be such a one as the worst and most hardened wretch among us would confess both the danger and the mercy of .
the sixth day of our being at sea we came into yarmouth roads ; the wind having been contrary and the weather calm , we had made but little way since the storm .
here we were obliged to come to an anchor , and here we lay , the wind continuing contrary - viz. at south-west - for seven or eight days , during which time a great many ships from newcastle came into the same roads , as the common harbour where the ships might wait for a wind for the river .
we had not , however , rid here so long but we should have tided it up the river , but that the wind blew too fresh , and after we had lain four or five days , blew very hard .
however , the roads being reckoned as good as a harbour , the anchorage good , and our ground-tackle very strong , our men were unconcerned , and not in the least apprehensive of danger , but spent the time in rest and mirth , after the manner of the sea ; but the eighth day , in the morning , the wind increased , and we had all hands at work to strike our topmasts , and make everything snug and close , that the ship might ride as easy as possible .
by noon the sea went very high indeed , and our ship rode forecastle in , shipped several seas , and we thought once or twice our anchor had come home ; upon which our master ordered out the sheet-anchor , so that we rode with two anchors ahead , and the cables veered out to the bitter end .
by this time it blew a terrible storm indeed ; and now i began to see terror and amazement in the faces even of the seamen themselves .
the master , though vigilant in the business of preserving the ship , yet as he went in and out of his cabin by me , i could hear him softly to himself say , several times , " lord be merciful to us ! we shall be all lost ! we shall be all undone ! " and the like .
during these first hurries i was stupid , lying still in my cabin , which was in the steerage , and cannot describe my temper : i could ill resume the first penitence which i had so apparently trampled upon and hardened myself against : i thought the bitterness of death had been past , and that this would be nothing like the first ; but when the master himself came by me , as i said just now , and said we should be all lost , i was dreadfully frighted .
i got up out of my cabin and looked out ; but such a dismal sight i never saw : the sea ran mountains high , and broke upon us every three or four minutes ; when i could look about , i could see nothing but distress round us ; two ships that rode near us , we found , had cut their masts by the board , being deep laden ; and our men cried out that a ship which rode about a mile ahead of us was foundered .
two more ships , being driven from their anchors , were run out of the roads to sea , at all adventures , and that with not a mast standing .
the light ships fared the best , as not so much labouring in the sea ; but two or three of them drove , and came close by us , running away with only their spritsail out before the wind .
towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the master of our ship to let them cut away the fore-mast , which he was very unwilling to do ; but the boatswain protesting to him that if he did not the ship would founder , he consented ; and when they had cut away the fore-mast , the main-mast stood so loose , and shook the ship so much , they were obliged to cut that away also , and make a clear deck .
any one may judge what a condition i must be in at all this , who was but a young sailor , and who had been in such a fright before at but a little . but if i can express at this distance the thoughts i had about me at that time , i was in tenfold more horror of mind upon account of my former convictions , and the having returned from them to the resolutions i had wickedly taken at first , than i was at death itself ; and these , added to the terror of the storm , put me into such a condition that i can by no words describe it .
but the worst was not come yet ; the storm continued with such fury that the seamen themselves acknowledged they had never seen a worse .
we had a good ship , but she was deep laden , and wallowed in the sea , so that the seamen every now and then cried out she would founder . it was my advantage in one respect , that i did not know what they meant by _ founder _ till i inquired .
however , the storm was so violent that i saw , what is not often seen , the master , the boatswain , and some others more sensible than the rest , at their prayers , and expecting every moment when the ship would go to the bottom .
in the middle of the night , and under all the rest of our distresses , one of the men that had been down to see cried out we had sprung a leak ; another said there was four feet water in the hold .
then all hands were called to the pump .
at that word , my heart , as i thought , died within me : and i fell backwards upon the side of my bed where i sat , into the cabin .
however , the men roused me , and told me that i , that was able to do nothing before , was as well able to pump as another ; at which i stirred up and went to the pump , and worked very heartily .
while this was doing the master , seeing some light colliers , who , not able to ride out the storm were obliged to slip and run away to sea , and would come near us , ordered to fire a gun as a signal of distress .
i , who knew nothing what they meant , thought the ship had broken , or some dreadful thing happened . in a word , i was so surprised that i fell down in a swoon .
as this was a time when everybody had his own life to think of , nobody minded me , or what was become of me ; but another man stepped up to the pump , and thrusting me aside with his foot , let me lie , thinking i had been dead ; and it was a great while before i came to myself .
we worked on ; but the water increasing in the hold , it was apparent that the ship would founder ; and though the storm began to abate a little , yet it was not possible she could swim till we might run into any port ; so the master continued firing guns for help ; and a light ship , who had rid it out just ahead of us , ventured a boat out to help us .
it was with the utmost hazard the boat came near us ; but it was impossible for us to get on board , or for the boat to lie near the ship 's side , till at last the men rowing very heartily , and venturing their lives to save ours , our men cast them a rope over the stern with a buoy to it , and then veered it out a great length , which they , after much labour and hazard , took hold of , and we hauled them close under our stern , and got all into their boat .
it was to no purpose for them or us , after we were in the boat , to think of reaching their own ship ; so all agreed to let her drive , and only to pull her in towards shore as much as we could ; and our master promised them , that if the boat was staved upon shore , he would make it good to their master : so partly rowing and partly driving , our boat went away to the northward , sloping towards the shore almost as far as winterton ness .
we were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship till we saw her sink , and then i understood for the first time what was meant by a ship foundering in the sea .
i must acknowledge i had hardly eyes to look up when the seamen told me she was sinking ; for from the moment that they rather put me into the boat than that i might be said to go in , my heart was , as it were , dead within me , partly with fright , partly with horror of mind , and the thoughts of what was yet before me .
while we were in this condition - the men yet labouring at the oar to bring the boat near the shore - we could see ( when , our boat mounting the waves , we were able to see the shore ) a great many people running along the strand to assist us when we should come near ; but we made but slow way towards the shore ; nor were we able to reach the shore till , being past the lighthouse at winterton , the shore falls off to the westward towards cromer , and so the land broke off a little the violence of the wind . here we got in , and though not without much difficulty , got all safe on shore , and walked afterwards on foot to yarmouth , where , as unfortunate men , we were used with great humanity , as well by the magistrates of the town , who assigned us good quarters , as by particular merchants and owners of ships , and had money given us sufficient to carry us either to london or back to hull as we thought fit .
had i now had the sense to have gone back to hull , and have gone home , i had been happy , and my father , as in our blessed saviour 's parable , had even killed the fatted calf for me ; for hearing the ship i went away in was cast away in yarmouth roads , it was a great while before he had any assurances that i was not drowned .
but my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy that nothing could resist ; and though i had several times loud calls from my reason and my more composed judgment to go home , yet i had no power to do it .
i know not what to call this , nor will i urge that it is a secret overruling decree , that hurries us on to be the instruments of our own destruction , even though it be before us , and that we rush upon it with our eyes open . certainly , nothing but some such decreed unavoidable misery , which it was impossible for me to escape , could have pushed me forward against the calm reasonings and persuasions of my most retired thoughts , and against two such visible instructions as i had met with in my first attempt .
my comrade , who had helped to harden me before , and who was the master 's son , was now less forward than i. the first time he spoke to me after we were at yarmouth , which was not till two or three days , for we were separated in the town to several quarters ; i say , the first time he saw me , it appeared his tone was altered ; and , looking very melancholy , and shaking his head , he asked me how i did , and telling his father who i was , and how i had come this voyage only for a trial , in order to go further abroad , his father , turning to me with a very grave and concerned tone " young man , " says he , " you ought never to go to sea any more ; you ought to take this for a plain and visible token that you are not to be a seafaring man . "
" why , sir , " said i , " will you go to sea no more ? " " that is another case , " said he ; " it is my calling , and therefore my duty ; but as you made this voyage on trial , you see what a taste heaven has given you of what you are to expect if you persist .
perhaps this has all befallen us on your account , like jonah in the ship of tarshish .
pray , " continues he , " what are you ; and on what account did you go to sea ? "
upon that i told him some of my story ; at the end of which he burst out into a strange kind of passion : " what had i done , " says he , " that such an unhappy wretch should come into my ship ?
i would not set my foot in the same ship with thee again for a thousand pounds . " this indeed was , as i said , an excursion of his spirits , which were yet agitated by the sense of his loss , and was farther than he could have authority to go .
however , he afterwards talked very gravely to me , exhorting me to go back to my father , and not tempt providence to my ruin , telling me i might see a visible hand of heaven against me . " and , young man , " said he , " depend upon it , if you do not go back , wherever you go , you will meet with nothing but disasters and disappointments , till your father 's words are fulfilled upon you . "
we parted soon after ; for i made him little answer , and i saw him no more ; which way he went i knew not .
as for me , having some money in my pocket , i travelled to london by land ; and there , as well as on the road , had many struggles with myself what course of life i should take , and whether i should go home or to sea .
as to going home , shame opposed the best motions that offered to my thoughts , and it immediately occurred to me how i should be laughed at among the neighbours , and should be ashamed to see , not my father and mother only , but even everybody else ; from whence i have since often observed , how incongruous and irrational the common temper of mankind is , especially of youth , to that reason which ought to guide them in such cases - viz. that they are not ashamed to sin , and yet are ashamed to repent ; not ashamed of the action for which they ought justly to be esteemed fools , but are ashamed of the returning , which only can make them be esteemed wise men .
in this state of life , however , i remained some time , uncertain what measures to take , and what course of life to lead .
an irresistible reluctance continued to going home ; and as i stayed away a while , the remembrance of the distress i had been in wore off , and as that abated , the little motion i had in my desires to return wore off with it , till at last i quite laid aside the thoughts of it , and looked out for a voyage .
that evil influence which carried me first away from my father 's house - which hurried me into the wild and indigested notion of raising my fortune , and that impressed those conceits so forcibly upon me as to make me deaf to all good advice , and to the entreaties and even the commands of my father - i say , the same influence , whatever it was , presented the most unfortunate of all enterprises to my view ; and i went on board a vessel bound to the coast of africa ; or , as our sailors vulgarly called it , a voyage to guinea .
it was my great misfortune that in all these adventures i did not ship myself as a sailor ; when , though i might indeed have worked a little harder than ordinary , yet at the same time i should have learnt the duty and office of a fore-mast man , and in time might have qualified myself for a mate or lieutenant , if not for a master .
but as it was always my fate to choose for the worse , so i did here ; for having money in my pocket and good clothes upon my back , i would always go on board in the habit of a gentleman ; and so i neither had any business in the ship , nor learned to do any .
it was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good company in london , which does not always happen to such loose and misguided young fellows as i then was ; the devil generally not omitting to lay some snare for them very early ; but it was not so with me .
i first got acquainted with the master of a ship who had been on the coast of guinea ; and who , having had very good success there , was resolved to go again . this captain taking a fancy to my conversation , which was not at all disagreeable at that time , hearing me say i had a mind to see the world , told me if i would go the voyage with him i should be at no expense ; i should be his messmate and his companion ; and if i could carry anything with me , i should have all the advantage of it that the trade would admit ; and perhaps i might meet with some encouragement .
i embraced the offer ; and entering into a strict friendship with this captain , who was an honest , plain-dealing man , i went the voyage with him , and carried a small adventure with me , which , by the disinterested honesty of my friend the captain , i increased very considerably ; for i carried about  40 in such toys and trifles as the captain directed me to buy .
these  40 i had mustered together by the assistance of some of my relations whom i corresponded with ; and who , i believe , got my father , or at least my mother , to contribute so much as that to my first adventure .
this was the only voyage which i may say was successful in all my adventures , which i owe to the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain ; under whom also i got a competent knowledge of the mathematics and the rules of navigation , learned how to keep an account of the ship 's course , take an observation , and , in short , to understand some things that were needful to be understood by a sailor ; for , as he took delight to instruct me , i took delight to learn ; and , in a word , this voyage made me both a sailor and a merchant ; for i brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold-dust for my adventure , which yielded me in london , at my return , almost  300 ; and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which have since so completed my ruin .
yet even in this voyage i had my misfortunes too ; particularly , that i was continually sick , being thrown into a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the climate ; our principal trading being upon the coast , from latitude of 15 degrees north even to the line itself .
i was now set up for a guinea trader ; and my friend , to my great misfortune , dying soon after his arrival , i resolved to go the same voyage again , and i embarked in the same vessel with one who was his mate in the former voyage , and had now got the command of the ship .
this was the unhappiest voyage that ever man made ; for though i did not carry quite  100 of my new-gained wealth , so that i had  200 left , which i had lodged with my friend 's widow , who was very just to me , yet i fell into terrible misfortunes .
the first was this : our ship making her course towards the canary islands , or rather between those islands and the african shore , was surprised in the grey of the morning by a turkish rover of sallee , who gave chase to us with all the sail she could make .
we crowded also as much canvas as our yards would spread , or our masts carry , to get clear ; but finding the pirate gained upon us , and would certainly come up with us in a few hours , we prepared to fight ; our ship having twelve guns , and the rogue eighteen .
about three in the afternoon he came up with us , and bringing to , by mistake , just athwart our quarter , instead of athwart our stern , as he intended , we brought eight of our guns to bear on that side , and poured in a broadside upon him , which made him sheer off again , after returning our fire , and pouring in also his small shot from near two hundred men which he had on board .
however , we had not a man touched , all our men keeping close .
he prepared to attack us again , and we to defend ourselves .
but laying us on board the next time upon our other quarter , he entered sixty men upon our decks , who immediately fell to cutting and hacking the sails and rigging .
we plied them with small shot , half-pikes , powder-chests , and such like , and cleared our deck of them twice .
however , to cut short this melancholy part of our story , our ship being disabled , and three of our men killed , and eight wounded , we were obliged to yield , and were carried all prisoners into sallee , a port belonging to the moors .
the usage i had there was not so dreadful as at first i apprehended ; nor was i carried up the country to the emperor 's court , as the rest of our men were , but was kept by the captain of the rover as his proper prize , and made his slave , being young and nimble , and fit for his business . at this surprising change of my circumstances , from a merchant to a miserable slave , i was perfectly overwhelmed ; and now i looked back upon my father 's prophetic discourse to me , that i should be miserable and have none to relieve me , which i thought was now so effectually brought to pass that i could not be worse ; for now the hand of heaven had overtaken me , and i was undone without redemption ; but , alas ! this was but a taste of the misery i was to go through , as will appear in the sequel of this story .
as my new patron , or master , had taken me home to his house , so i was in hopes that he would take me with him when he went to sea again , believing that it would some time or other be his fate to be taken by a spanish or portugal man-of-war ; and that then i should be set at liberty . but this hope of mine was soon taken away ; for when he went to sea , he left me on shore to look after his little garden , and do the common drudgery of slaves about his house ; and when he came home again from his cruise , he ordered me to lie in the cabin to look after the ship .
here i meditated nothing but my escape , and what method i might take to effect it , but found no way that had the least probability in it ; nothing presented to make the supposition of it rational ; for i had nobody to communicate it to that would embark with me - no fellow-slave , no englishman , irishman , or scotchman there but myself ; so that for two years , though i often pleased myself with the imagination , yet i never had the least encouraging prospect of putting it in practice .
after about two years , an odd circumstance presented itself , which put the old thought of making some attempt for my liberty again in my head .
my patron lying at home longer than usual without fitting out his ship , which , as i heard , was for want of money , he used constantly , once or twice a week , sometimes oftener if the weather was fair , to take the ship 's pinnace and go out into the road a-fishing ; and as he always took me and young maresco with him to row the boat , we made him very merry , and i proved very dexterous in catching fish ; insomuch that sometimes he would send me with a moor , one of his kinsmen , and the youth - the maresco , as they called him - to catch a dish of fish for him .
it happened one time , that going a-fishing in a calm morning , a fog rose so thick that , though we were not half a league from the shore , we lost sight of it ; and rowing we knew not whither or which way , we laboured all day , and all the next night ; and when the morning came we found we had pulled off to sea instead of pulling in for the shore ; and that we were at least two leagues from the shore .
however , we got well in again , though with a great deal of labour and some danger ; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morning ; but we were all very hungry .
but our patron , warned by this disaster , resolved to take more care of himself for the future ; and having lying by him the longboat of our english ship that he had taken , he resolved he would not go a-fishing any more without a compass and some provision ; so he ordered the carpenter of his ship , who also was an english slave , to build a little state-room , or cabin , in the middle of the long-boat , like that of a barge , with a place to stand behind it to steer , and haul home the main-sheet ; the room before for a hand or two to stand and work the sails .
she sailed with what we call a shoulder-of-mutton sail ; and the boom jibed over the top of the cabin , which lay very snug and low , and had in it room for him to lie , with a slave or two , and a table to eat on , with some small lockers to put in some bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink ; and his bread , rice , and coffee .
we went frequently out with this boat a-fishing ; and as i was most dexterous to catch fish for him , he never went without me .
it happened that he had appointed to go out in this boat , either for pleasure or for fish , with two or three moors of some distinction in that place , and for whom he had provided extraordinarily , and had , therefore , sent on board the boat overnight a larger store of provisions than ordinary ; and had ordered me to get ready three fusees with powder and shot , which were on board his ship , for that they designed some sport of fowling as well as fishing .
i got all things ready as he had directed , and waited the next morning with the boat washed clean , her ancient and pendants out , and everything to accommodate his guests ; when by-and-by my patron came on board alone , and told me his guests had put off going from some business that fell out , and ordered me , with the man and boy , as usual , to go out with the boat and catch them some fish , for that his friends were to sup at his house , and commanded that as soon as i got some fish i should bring it home to his house ; all which i prepared to do .
this moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my thoughts , for now i found i was likely to have a little ship at my command ; and my master being gone , i prepared to furnish myself , not for fishing business , but for a voyage ; though i knew not , neither did i so much as consider , whither i should steer - anywhere to get out of that place was my desire .
my first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this moor , to get something for our subsistence on board ; for i told him we must not presume to eat of our patron 's bread .
he said that was true ; so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit , and three jars of fresh water , into the boat . i knew where my patron 's case of bottles stood , which it was evident , by the make , were taken out of some english prize , and i conveyed them into the boat while the moor was on shore , as if they had been there before for our master .
i conveyed also a great lump of beeswax into the boat , which weighed about half a hundred-weight , with a parcel of twine or thread , a hatchet , a saw , and a hammer , all of which were of great use to us afterwards , especially the wax , to make candles .
another trick i tried upon him , which he innocently came into also : his name was ismael , which they call muley , or moely ; so i called to him - " moely , " said i , " our patron 's guns are on board the boat ; can you not get a little powder and shot ?
it may be we may kill some alcamies ( a fowl like our curlews ) for ourselves , for i know he keeps the gunner 's stores in the ship . "
" yes , " says he , " i 'll bring some ; " and accordingly he brought a great leather pouch , which held a pound and a half of powder , or rather more ; and another with shot , that had five or six pounds , with some bullets , and put all into the boat . at the same time i had found some powder of my master 's in the great cabin , with which i filled one of the large bottles in the case , which was almost empty , pouring what was in it into another ; and thus furnished with everything needful , we sailed out of the port to fish .
the castle , which is at the entrance of the port , knew who we were , and took no notice of us ; and we were not above a mile out of the port before we hauled in our sail and set us down to fish .
the wind blew from the n.n.e. , which was contrary to my desire , for had it blown southerly i had been sure to have made the coast of spain , and at least reached to the bay of cadiz ; but my resolutions were , blow which way it would , i would be gone from that horrid place where i was , and leave the rest to fate .
after we had fished some time and caught nothing - for when i had fish on my hook i would not pull them up , that he might not see them - i said to the moor , " this will not do ; our master will not be thus served ; we must stand farther off . "
he , thinking no harm , agreed , and being in the head of the boat , set the sails ; and , as i had the helm , i ran the boat out near a league farther , and then brought her to , as if i would fish ; when , giving the boy the helm , i stepped forward to where the moor was , and making as if i stooped for something behind him , i took him by surprise with my arm under his waist , and tossed him clear overboard into the sea .
he rose immediately , for he swam like a cork , and called to me , begged to be taken in , told me he would go all over the world with me .
he swam so strong after the boat that he would have reached me very quickly , there being but little wind ; upon which i stepped into the cabin , and fetching one of the fowling-pieces , i presented it at him , and told him i had done him no hurt , and if he would be quiet i would do him none .
" but , " said i , " you swim well enough to reach to the shore , and the sea is calm ; make the best of your way to shore , and i will do you no harm ; but if you come near the boat i 'll shoot you through the head , for i am resolved to have my liberty ; " so he turned himself about , and swam for the shore , and i make no doubt but he reached it with ease , for he was an excellent swimmer .
i could have been content to have taken this moor with me , and have drowned the boy , but there was no venturing to trust him .
when he was gone , i turned to the boy , whom they called xury , and said to him , " xury , if you will be faithful to me , i 'll make you a great man ; but if you will not stroke your face to be true to me " - that is , swear by mahomet and his father 's beard - " i must throw you into the sea too . "
the boy smiled in my face , and spoke so innocently that i could not distrust him , and swore to be faithful to me , and go all over the world with me .
while i was in view of the moor that was swimming , i stood out directly to sea with the boat , rather stretching to windward , that they might think me gone towards the straits ' mouth ( as indeed any one that had been in their wits must have been supposed to do ) : for who would have supposed we were sailed on to the southward , to the truly barbarian coast , where whole nations of negroes were sure to surround us with their canoes and destroy us ; where we could not go on shore but we should be devoured by savage beasts , or more merciless savages of human kind .
but as soon as it grew dusk in the evening , i changed my course , and steered directly south and by east , bending my course a little towards the east , that i might keep in with the shore ; and having a fair , fresh gale of wind , and a smooth , quiet sea , i made such sail that i believe by the next day , at three o 'clock in the afternoon , when i first made the land , i could not be less than one hundred and fifty miles south of sallee ; quite beyond the emperor of morocco 's dominions , or indeed of any other king thereabouts , for we saw no people .
yet such was the fright i had taken of the moors , and the dreadful apprehensions i had of falling into their hands , that i would not stop , or go on shore , or come to an anchor ; the wind continuing fair till i had sailed in that manner five days ; and then the wind shifting to the southward , i concluded also that if any of our vessels were in chase of me , they also would now give over ; so i ventured to make to the coast , and came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river , i knew not what , nor where , neither what latitude , what country , what nation , or what river .
i neither saw , nor desired to see any people ; the principal thing i wanted was fresh water .
we came into this creek in the evening , resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was dark , and discover the country ; but as soon as it was quite dark , we heard such dreadful noises of the barking , roaring , and howling of wild creatures , of we knew not what kinds , that the poor boy was ready to die with fear , and begged of me not to go on shore till day .
" well , xury , " said i , " then i won 't ; but it may be that we may see men by day , who will be as bad to us as those lions . "
" then we give them the shoot gun , " says xury , laughing , " make them run wey . " such english xury spoke by conversing among us slaves .
however , i was glad to see the boy so cheerful , and i gave him a dram ( out of our patron 's case of bottles ) to cheer him up .
after all , xury 's advice was good , and i took it ; we dropped our little anchor , and lay still all night ; i say still , for we slept none ; for in two or three hours we saw vast great creatures ( we knew not what to call them ) of many sorts , come down to the sea-shore and run into the water , wallowing and washing themselves for the pleasure of cooling themselves ; and they made such hideous howlings and yellings , that i never indeed heard the like .
xury was dreadfully frighted , and indeed so was i too ; but we were both more frighted when we heard one of these mighty creatures come swimming towards our boat ; we could not see him , but we might hear him by his blowing to be a monstrous huge and furious beast .
xury said it was a lion , and it might be so for aught i know ; but poor xury cried to me to weigh the anchor and row away ;
" no , " says i , " xury ; we can slip our cable , with the buoy to it , and go off to sea ; they cannot follow us far . "
i had no sooner said so , but i perceived the creature ( whatever it was ) within two oars ' length , which something surprised me ; however , i immediately stepped to the cabin door , and taking up my gun , fired at him ; upon which he immediately turned about and swam towards the shore again .
but it is impossible to describe the horrid noises , and hideous cries and howlings that were raised , as well upon the edge of the shore as higher within the country , upon the noise or report of the gun , a thing i have some reason to believe those creatures had never heard before : this convinced me that there was no going on shore for us in the night on that coast , and how to venture on shore in the day was another question too ; for to have fallen into the hands of any of the savages had been as bad as to have fallen into the hands of the lions and tigers ; at least we were equally apprehensive of the danger of it .
be that as it would , we were obliged to go on shore somewhere or other for water , for we had not a pint left in the boat ; when and where to get to it was the point .
xury said , if i would let him go on shore with one of the jars , he would find if there was any water , and bring some to me .
i asked him why he would go ? why i should not go , and he stay in the boat ?
the boy answered with so much affection as made me love him ever after .
says he , " if wild mans come , they eat me , you go wey . "
" well , xury , " said i , " we will both go and if the wild mans come , we will kill them , they shall eat neither of us . " so i gave xury a piece of rusk bread to eat , and a dram out of our patron 's case of bottles which i mentioned before ; and we hauled the boat in as near the shore as we thought was proper , and so waded on shore , carrying nothing but our arms and two jars for water .
i did not care to go out of sight of the boat , fearing the coming of canoes with savages down the river ; but the boy seeing a low place about a mile up the country , rambled to it , and by-and-by i saw him come running towards me .
i thought he was pursued by some savage , or frighted with some wild beast , and i ran forward towards him to help him ; but when i came nearer to him i saw something hanging over his shoulders , which was a creature that he had shot , like a hare , but different in colour , and longer legs ; however , we were very glad of it , and it was very good meat ; but the great joy that poor xury came with , was to tell me he had found good water and seen no wild mans .
but we found afterwards that we need not take such pains for water , for a little higher up the creek where we were we found the water fresh when the tide was out , which flowed but a little way up ; so we filled our jars , and feasted on the hare he had killed , and prepared to go on our way , having seen no footsteps of any human creature in that part of the country .
as i had been one voyage to this coast before , i knew very well that the islands of the canaries , and the cape de verde islands also , lay not far off from the coast . but as i had no instruments to take an observation to know what latitude we were in , and not exactly knowing , or at least remembering , what latitude they were in , i knew not where to look for them , or when to stand off to sea towards them ; otherwise i might now easily have found some of these islands .
but my hope was , that if i stood along this coast till i came to that part where the english traded , i should find some of their vessels upon their usual design of trade , that would relieve and take us in .
by the best of my calculation , that place where i now was must be that country which , lying between the emperor of morocco 's dominions and the negroes , lies waste and uninhabited , except by wild beasts ; the negroes having abandoned it and gone farther south for fear of the moors , and the moors not thinking it worth inhabiting by reason of its barrenness ; and indeed , both forsaking it because of the prodigious number of tigers , lions , leopards , and other furious creatures which harbour there ; so that the moors use it for their hunting only , where they go like an army , two or three thousand men at a time ; and indeed for near a hundred miles together upon this coast we saw nothing but a waste , uninhabited country by day , and heard nothing but howlings and roaring of wild beasts by night .
once or twice in the daytime i thought i saw the pico of teneriffe , being the high top of the mountain teneriffe in the canaries , and had a great mind to venture out , in hopes of reaching thither ; but having tried twice , i was forced in again by contrary winds , the sea also going too high for my little vessel ; so , i resolved to pursue my first design , and keep along the shore .
several times i was obliged to land for fresh water , after we had left this place ; and once in particular , being early in morning , we came to an anchor under a little point of land , which was pretty high ; and the tide beginning to flow , we lay still to go farther in .
xury , whose eyes were more about him than it seems mine were , calls softly to me , and tells me that we had best go farther off the shore ; " for , " says he , " look , yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side of that hillock , fast asleep . "
i looked where he pointed , and saw a dreadful monster indeed , for it was a terrible , great lion that lay on the side of the shore , under the shade of a piece of the hill that hung as it were a little over him .
" xury , " says i , " you shall on shore and kill him . "
xury , looked frighted , and said , " me kill ! he eat me at one mouth ! " - one mouthful he meant .
however , i said no more to the boy , but bade him lie still , and i took our biggest gun , which was almost musket-bore , and loaded it with a good charge of powder , and with two slugs , and laid it down ; then i loaded another gun with two bullets ; and the third ( for we had three pieces ) i loaded with five smaller bullets .
i took the best aim i could with the first piece to have shot him in the head , but he lay so with his leg raised a little above his nose , that the slugs hit his leg about the knee and broke the bone .
he started up , growling at first , but finding his leg broken , fell down again ; and then got upon three legs , and gave the most hideous roar that ever i heard .
i was a little surprised that i had not hit him on the head ; however , i took up the second piece immediately , and though he began to move off , fired again , and shot him in the head , and had the pleasure to see him drop and make but little noise , but lie struggling for life .
then xury took heart , and would have me let him go on shore .
" well , go , " said i : so the boy jumped into the water and taking a little gun in one hand , swam to shore with the other hand , and coming close to the creature , put the muzzle of the piece to his ear , and shot him in the head again , which despatched him quite .
this was game indeed to us , but this was no food ; and i was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to us .
however , xury said he would have some of him ; so he comes on board , and asked me to give him the hatchet .
" for what , xury ? " said i. " me cut off his head , " said he .
however , xury could not cut off his head , but he cut off a foot , and brought it with him , and it was a monstrous great one .
i bethought myself , however , that , perhaps the skin of him might , one way or other , be of some value to us ; and i resolved to take off his skin if i could .
so xury and i went to work with him ; but xury was much the better workman at it , for i knew very ill how to do it .
indeed , it took us both up the whole day , but at last we got off the hide of him , and spreading it on the top of our cabin , the sun effectually dried it in two days ' time , and it afterwards served me to lie upon .
after this stop , we made on to the southward continually for ten or twelve days , living very sparingly on our provisions , which began to abate very much , and going no oftener to the shore than we were obliged to for fresh water .
my design in this was to make the river gambia or senegal , that is to say anywhere about the cape de verde , where i was in hopes to meet with some european ship ; and if i did not , i knew not what course i had to take , but to seek for the islands , or perish there among the negroes . i knew that all the ships from europe , which sailed either to the coast of guinea or to brazil , or to the east indies , made this cape , or those islands ; and , in a word , i put the whole of my fortune upon this single point , either that i must meet with some ship or must perish .
when i had pursued this resolution about ten days longer , as i have said , i began to see that the land was inhabited ; and in two or three places , as we sailed by , we saw people stand upon the shore to look at us ; we could also perceive they were quite black and naked .
i was once inclined to have gone on shore to them ; but xury was my better counsellor , and said to me , " no go , no go . "
however , i hauled in nearer the shore that i might talk to them , and i found they ran along the shore by me a good way .
i observed they had no weapons in their hand , except one , who had a long slender stick , which xury said was a lance , and that they could throw them a great way with good aim ; so i kept at a distance , but talked with them by signs as well as i could ; and particularly made signs for something to eat : they beckoned to me to stop my boat , and they would fetch me some meat .
upon this i lowered the top of my sail and lay by , and two of them ran up into the country , and in less than half-an-hour came back , and brought with them two pieces of dried flesh and some corn , such as is the produce of their country ; but we neither knew what the one or the other was ; however , we were willing to accept it , but how to come at it was our next dispute , for i would not venture on shore to them , and they were as much afraid of us ; but they took a safe way for us all , for they brought it to the shore and laid it down , and went and stood a great way off till we fetched it on board , and then came close to us again .
we made signs of thanks to them , for we had nothing to make them amends ; but an opportunity offered that very instant to oblige them wonderfully ; for while we were lying by the shore came two mighty creatures , one pursuing the other ( as we took it ) with great fury from the mountains towards the sea ; whether it was the male pursuing the female , or whether they were in sport or in rage , we could not tell , any more than we could tell whether it was usual or strange , but i believe it was the latter ; because , in the first place , those ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the night ; and , in the second place , we found the people terribly frighted , especially the women .
the man that had the lance or dart did not fly from them , but the rest did ; however , as the two creatures ran directly into the water , they did not offer to fall upon any of the negroes , but plunged themselves into the sea , and swam about , as if they had come for their diversion ; at last one of them began to come nearer our boat than at first i expected ; but i lay ready for him , for i had loaded my gun with all possible expedition , and bade xury load both the others .
as soon as he came fairly within my reach , i fired , and shot him directly in the head ; immediately he sank down into the water , but rose instantly , and plunged up and down , as if he were struggling for life , and so indeed he was ; he immediately made to the shore ; but between the wound , which was his mortal hurt , and the strangling of the water , he died just before he reached the shore .
it is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor creatures at the noise and fire of my gun : some of them were even ready to die for fear , and fell down as dead with the very terror ; but when they saw the creature dead , and sunk in the water , and that i made signs to them to come to the shore , they took heart and came , and began to search for the creature .
i found him by his blood staining the water ; and by the help of a rope , which i slung round him , and gave the negroes to haul , they dragged him on shore , and found that it was a most curious leopard , spotted , and fine to an admirable degree ; and the negroes held up their hands with admiration , to think what it was i had killed him with .
the other creature , frighted with the flash of fire and the noise of the gun , swam on shore , and ran up directly to the mountains from whence they came ; nor could i , at that distance , know what it was .
i found quickly the negroes wished to eat the flesh of this creature , so i was willing to have them take it as a favour from me ; which , when i made signs to them that they might take him , they were very thankful for .
immediately they fell to work with him ; and though they had no knife , yet , with a sharpened piece of wood , they took off his skin as readily , and much more readily , than we could have done with a knife .
they offered me some of the flesh , which i declined , pointing out that i would give it them ; but made signs for the skin , which they gave me very freely , and brought me a great deal more of their provisions , which , though i did not understand , yet i accepted .
i then made signs to them for some water , and held out one of my jars to them , turning it bottom upward , to show that it was empty , and that i wanted to have it filled .
they called immediately to some of their friends , and there came two women , and brought a great vessel made of earth , and burnt , as i supposed , in the sun , this they set down to me , as before , and i sent xury on shore with my jars , and filled them all three .
the women were as naked as the men .
i was now furnished with roots and corn , such as it was , and water ; and leaving my friendly negroes , i made forward for about eleven days more , without offering to go near the shore , till i saw the land run out a great length into the sea , at about the distance of four or five leagues before me ; and the sea being very calm , i kept a large offing to make this point .
at length , doubling the point , at about two leagues from the land , i saw plainly land on the other side , to seaward ; then i concluded , as it was most certain indeed , that this was the cape de verde , and those the islands called , from thence , cape de verde islands .
however , they were at a great distance , and i could not well tell what i had best to do ; for if i should be taken with a fresh of wind , i might neither reach one or other .
in this dilemma , as i was very pensive , i stepped into the cabin and sat down , xury having the helm ; when , on a sudden , the boy cried out , " master , master , a ship with a sail ! " and the foolish boy was frighted out of his wits , thinking it must needs be some of his master 's ships sent to pursue us , but i knew we were far enough out of their reach .
i jumped out of the cabin , and immediately saw , not only the ship , but that it was a portuguese ship ; and , as i thought , was bound to the coast of guinea , for negroes .
but , when i observed the course she steered , i was soon convinced they were bound some other way , and did not design to come any nearer to the shore ; upon which i stretched out to sea as much as i could , resolving to speak with them if possible .
with all the sail i could make , i found i should not be able to come in their way , but that they would be gone by before i could make any signal to them : but after i had crowded to the utmost , and began to despair , they , it seems , saw by the help of their glasses that it was some european boat , which they supposed must belong to some ship that was lost ; so they shortened sail to let me come up .
i was encouraged with this , and as i had my patron 's ancient on board , i made a waft of it to them , for a signal of distress , and fired a gun , both which they saw ; for they told me they saw the smoke , though they did not hear the gun .
upon these signals they very kindly brought to , and lay by for me ; and in about three hours ; time i came up with them .
they asked me what i was , in portuguese , and in spanish , and in french , but i understood none of them ; but at last a scotch sailor , who was on board , called to me : and i answered him , and told him i was an englishman , that i had made my escape out of slavery from the moors , at sallee ; they then bade me come on board , and very kindly took me in , and all my goods .
it was an inexpressible joy to me , which any one will believe , that i was thus delivered , as i esteemed it , from such a miserable and almost hopeless condition as i was in ; and i immediately offered all i had to the captain of the ship , as a return for my deliverance ; but he generously told me he would take nothing from me , but that all i had should be delivered safe to me when i came to the brazils .
" for , " says he , " i have saved your life on no other terms than i would be glad to be saved myself : and it may , one time or other , be my lot to be taken up in the same condition .
besides , " said he , " when i carry you to the brazils , so great a way from your own country , if i should take from you what you have , you will be starved there , and then i only take away that life i have given .
no , no , " says he : " seignior inglese " ( mr. englishman ) , " i will carry you thither in charity , and those things will help to buy your subsistence there , and your passage home again . "
as he was charitable in this proposal , so he was just in the performance to a tittle ; for he ordered the seamen that none should touch anything that i had : then he took everything into his own possession , and gave me back an exact inventory of them , that i might have them , even to my three earthen jars .
as to my boat , it was a very good one ; and that he saw , and told me he would buy it of me for his ship 's use ; and asked me what i would have for it ?
i told him he had been so generous to me in everything that i could not offer to make any price of the boat , but left it entirely to him : upon which he told me he would give me a note of hand to pay me eighty pieces of eight for it at brazil ; and when it came there , if any one offered to give more , he would make it up .
he offered me also sixty pieces of eight more for my boy xury , which i was loth to take ; not that i was unwilling to let the captain have him , but i was very loth to sell the poor boy 's liberty , who had assisted me so faithfully in procuring my own .
however , when i let him know my reason , he owned it to be just , and offered me this medium , that he would give the boy an obligation to set him free in ten years , if he turned christian : upon this , and xury saying he was willing to go to him , i let the captain have him .
we had a very good voyage to the brazils , and i arrived in the bay de todos los santos , or all saints ' bay , in about twenty-two days after .
and now i was once more delivered from the most miserable of all conditions of life ; and what to do next with myself i was to consider .
the generous treatment the captain gave me i can never enough remember : he would take nothing of me for my passage , gave me twenty ducats for the leopard 's skin , and forty for the lion 's skin , which i had in my boat , and caused everything i had in the ship to be punctually delivered to me ; and what i was willing to sell he bought of me , such as the case of bottles , two of my guns , and a piece of the lump of beeswax - for i had made candles of the rest : in a word , i made about two hundred and twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo ; and with this stock i went on shore in the brazils .
i had not been long here before i was recommended to the house of a good honest man like himself , who had an _ ingenio _ , as they call it ( that is , a plantation and a sugar-house ) .
i lived with him some time , and acquainted myself by that means with the manner of planting and making of sugar ; and seeing how well the planters lived , and how they got rich suddenly , i resolved , if i could get a licence to settle there , i would turn planter among them : resolving in the meantime to find out some way to get my money , which i had left in london , remitted to me .
to this purpose , getting a kind of letter of naturalisation , i purchased as much land that was uncured as my money would reach , and formed a plan for my plantation and settlement ; such a one as might be suitable to the stock which i proposed to myself to receive from england .
i had a neighbour , a portuguese , of lisbon , but born of english parents , whose name was wells , and in much such circumstances as i was .
i call him my neighbour , because his plantation lay next to mine , and we went on very sociably together .
my stock was but low , as well as his ; and we rather planted for food than anything else , for about two years .
however , we began to increase , and our land began to come into order ; so that the third year we planted some tobacco , and made each of us a large piece of ground ready for planting canes in the year to come .
but we both wanted help ; and now i found , more than before , i had done wrong in parting with my boy xury .
but , alas ! for me to do wrong that never did right , was no great wonder .
i hail no remedy but to go on : i had got into an employment quite remote to my genius , and directly contrary to the life i delighted in , and for which i forsook my father 's house , and broke through all his good advice . nay , i was coming into the very middle station , or upper degree of low life , which my father advised me to before , and which , if i resolved to go on with , i might as well have stayed at home , and never have fatigued myself in the world as i had done ; and i used often to say to myself , i could have done this as well in england , among my friends , as have gone five thousand miles off to do it among strangers and savages , in a wilderness , and at such a distance as never to hear from any part of the world that had the least knowledge of me .
in this manner i used to look upon my condition with the utmost regret .
i had nobody to converse with , but now and then this neighbour ; no work to be done , but by the labour of my hands ; and i used to say , i lived just like a man cast away upon some desolate island , that had nobody there but himself .
but how just has it been - and how should all men reflect , that when they compare their present conditions with others that are worse , heaven may oblige them to make the exchange , and be convinced of their former felicity by their experience - i say , how just has it been , that the truly solitary life i reflected on , in an island of mere desolation , should be my lot , who had so often unjustly compared it with the life which i then led , in which , had i continued , i had in all probability been exceeding prosperous and rich .
i was in some degree settled in my measures for carrying on the plantation before my kind friend , the captain of the ship that took me up at sea , went back - for the ship remained there , in providing his lading and preparing for his voyage , nearly three months - when telling him what little stock i had left behind me in london , he gave me this friendly and sincere advice : - " seignior inglese , " says he ( for so he always called me ) , " if you will give me letters , and a procuration in form to me , with orders to the person who has your money in london to send your effects to lisbon , to such persons as i shall direct , and in such goods as are proper for this country , i will bring you the produce of them , god willing , at my return ; but , since human affairs are all subject to changes and disasters , i would have you give orders but for one hundred pounds sterling , which , you say , is half your stock , and let the hazard be run for the first ; so that , if it come safe , you may order the rest the same way , and , if it miscarry , you may have the other half to have recourse to for your supply . "
this was so wholesome advice , and looked so friendly , that i could not but be convinced it was the best course i could take ; so i accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman with whom i had left my money , and a procuration to the portuguese captain , as he desired .
i wrote the english captain 's widow a full account of all my adventures - my slavery , escape , and how i had met with the portuguese captain at sea , the humanity of his behaviour , and what condition i was now in , with all other necessary directions for my supply ; and when this honest captain came to lisbon , he found means , by some of the english merchants there , to send over , not the order only , but a full account of my story to a merchant in london , who represented it effectually to her ; whereupon she not only delivered the money , but out of her own pocket sent the portugal captain a very handsome present for his humanity and charity to me .
the merchant in london , vesting this hundred pounds in english goods , such as the captain had written for , sent them directly to him at lisbon , and he brought them all safe to me to the brazils ; among which , without my direction ( for i was too young in my business to think of them ) , he had taken care to have all sorts of tools , ironwork , and utensils necessary for my plantation , and which were of great use to me .
when this cargo arrived i thought my fortune made , for i was surprised with the joy of it ; and my stood steward , the captain , had laid out the five pounds , which my friend had sent him for a present for himself , to purchase and bring me over a servant , under bond for six years ' service , and would not accept of any consideration , except a little tobacco , which i would have him accept , being of my own produce .
neither was this all ; for my goods being all english manufacture , such as cloths , stuffs , baize , and things particularly valuable and desirable in the country , i found means to sell them to a very great advantage ; so that i might say i had more than four times the value of my first cargo , and was now infinitely beyond my poor neighbour - i mean in the advancement of my plantation ; for the first thing i did , i bought me a negro slave , and an european servant also - i mean another besides that which the captain brought me from lisbon .
but as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means of our greatest adversity , so it was with me .
i went on the next year with great success in my plantation : i raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on my own ground , more than i had disposed of for necessaries among my neighbours ; and these fifty rolls , being each of above a hundredweight , were well cured , and laid by against the return of the fleet from lisbon : and now increasing in business and wealth , my head began to be full of projects and undertakings beyond my reach ; such as are , indeed , often the ruin of the best heads in business .
had i continued in the station i was now in , i had room for all the happy things to have yet befallen me for which my father so earnestly recommended a quiet , retired life , and of which he had so sensibly described the middle station of life to be full of ; but other things attended me , and i was still to be the wilful agent of all my own miseries ; and particularly , to increase my fault , and double the reflections upon myself , which in my future sorrows i should have leisure to make , all these miscarriages were procured by my apparent obstinate adhering to my foolish inclination of wandering abroad , and pursuing that inclination , in contradiction to the clearest views of doing myself good in a fair and plain pursuit of those prospects , and those measures of life , which nature and providence concurred to present me with , and to make my duty .
as i had once done thus in my breaking away from my parents , so i could not be content now , but i must go and leave the happy view i had of being a rich and thriving man in my new plantation , only to pursue a rash and immoderate desire of rising faster than the nature of the thing admitted ; and thus i cast myself down again into the deepest gulf of human misery that ever man fell into , or perhaps could be consistent with life and a state of health in the world .
to come , then , by the just degrees to the particulars of this part of my story . you may suppose , that having now lived almost four years in the brazils , and beginning to thrive and prosper very well upon my plantation , i had not only learned the language , but had contracted acquaintance and friendship among my fellow-planters , as well as among the merchants at st. salvador , which was our port ; and that , in my discourses among them , i had frequently given them an account of my two voyages to the coast of guinea : the manner of trading with the negroes there , and how easy it was to purchase upon the coast for trifles - such as beads , toys , knives , scissors , hatchets , bits of glass , and the like - not only gold-dust , guinea grains , elephants ' teeth , & c . , but negroes , for the service of the brazils , in great numbers .
they listened always very attentively to my discourses on these heads , but especially to that part which related to the buying of negroes , which was a trade at that time , not only not far entered into , but , as far as it was , had been carried on by assientos , or permission of the kings of spain and portugal , and engrossed in the public stock : so that few negroes were bought , and these excessively dear .
it happened , being in company with some merchants and planters of my acquaintance , and talking of those things very earnestly , three of them came to me next morning , and told me they had been musing very much upon what i had discoursed with them of the last night , and they came to make a secret proposal to me ; and , after enjoining me to secrecy , they told me that they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to guinea ; that they had all plantations as well as i , and were straitened for nothing so much as servants ; that as it was a trade that could not be carried on , because they could not publicly sell the negroes when they came home , so they desired to make but one voyage , to bring the negroes on shore privately , and divide them among their own plantations ; and , in a word , the question was whether i would go their supercargo in the ship , to manage the trading part upon the coast of guinea ; and they offered me that i should have my equal share of the negroes , without providing any part of the stock .
this was a fair proposal , it must be confessed , had it been made to any one that had not had a settlement and a plantation of his own to look after , which was in a fair way of coming to be very considerable , and with a good stock upon it ; but for me , that was thus entered and established , and had nothing to do but to go on as i had begun , for three or four years more , and to have sent for the other hundred pounds from england ; and who in that time , and with that little addition , could scarce have failed of being worth three or four thousand pounds sterling , and that increasing too - for me to think of such a voyage was the most preposterous thing that ever man in such circumstances could be guilty of .
but i , that was born to be my own destroyer , could no more resist the offer than i could restrain my first rambling designs when my father ' good counsel was lost upon me .
in a word , i told them i would go with all my heart , if they would undertake to look after my plantation in my absence , and would dispose of it to such as i should direct , if i miscarried .
this they all engaged to do , and entered into writings or covenants to do so ; and i made a formal will , disposing of my plantation and effects in case of my death , making the captain of the ship that had saved my life , as before , my universal heir , but obliging him to dispose of my effects as i had directed in my will ; one half of the produce being to himself , and the other to be shipped to england .
in short , i took all possible caution to preserve my effects and to keep up my plantation .
had i used half as much prudence to have looked into my own interest , and have made a judgment of what i ought to have done and not to have done , i had certainly never gone away from so prosperous an undertaking , leaving all the probable views of a thriving circumstance , and gone upon a voyage to sea , attended with all its common hazards , to say nothing of the reasons i had to expect particular misfortunes to myself .
but i was hurried on , and obeyed blindly the dictates of my fancy rather than my reason ; and , accordingly , the ship being fitted out , and the cargo furnished , and all things done , as by agreement , by my partners in the voyage , i went on board in an evil hour , the 1st september 1659 , being the same day eight years that i went from my father and mother at hull , in order to act the rebel to their authority , and the fool to my own interests .
our ship was about one hundred and twenty tons burden , carried six guns and fourteen men , besides the master , his boy , and myself .
we had on board no large cargo of goods , except of such toys as were fit for our trade with the negroes , such as beads , bits of glass , shells , and other trifles , especially little looking-glasses , knives , scissors , hatchets , and the like .
the same day i went on board we set sail , standing away to the northward upon our own coast , with design to stretch over for the african coast when we came about ten or twelve degrees of northern latitude , which , it seems , was the manner of course in those days .
we had very good weather , only excessively hot , all the way upon our own coast , till we came to the height of cape st. augustino ; from whence , keeping further off at sea , we lost sight of land , and steered as if we were bound for the isle fernando de noronha , holding our course n.e. by n. , and leaving those isles on the east .
in this course we passed the line in about twelve days ' time , and were , by our last observation , in seven degrees twenty-two minutes northern latitude , when a violent tornado , or hurricane , took us quite out of our knowledge .
it began from the south-east , came about to the north-west , and then settled in the north-east ; from whence it blew in such a terrible manner , that for twelve days together we could do nothing but drive , and , scudding away before it , let it carry us whither fate and the fury of the winds directed ; and , during these twelve days , i need not say that i expected every day to be swallowed up ; nor , indeed , did any in the ship expect to save their lives .
in this distress we had , besides the terror of the storm , one of our men die of the calenture , and one man and the boy washed overboard .
about the twelfth day , the weather abating a little , the master made an observation as well as he could , and found that he was in about eleven degrees north latitude , but that he was twenty-two degrees of longitude difference west from cape st. augustino ; so that he found he was upon the coast of guiana , or the north part of brazil , beyond the river amazon , toward that of the river orinoco , commonly called the great river ; and began to consult with me what course he should take , for the ship was leaky , and very much disabled , and he was going directly back to the coast of brazil .
i was positively against that ; and looking over the charts of the sea-coast of america with him , we concluded there was no inhabited country for us to have recourse to till we came within the circle of the caribbee islands , and therefore resolved to stand away for barbadoes ; which , by keeping off at sea , to avoid the indraft of the bay or gulf of mexico , we might easily perform , as we hoped , in about fifteen days ' sail ; whereas we could not possibly make our voyage to the coast of africa without some assistance both to our ship and to ourselves .
with this design we changed our course , and steered away n.w. by w. , in order to reach some of our english islands , where i hoped for relief .
but our voyage was otherwise determined ; for , being in the latitude of twelve degrees eighteen minutes , a second storm came upon us , which carried us away with the same impetuosity westward , and drove us so out of the way of all human commerce , that , had all our lives been saved as to the sea , we were rather in danger of being devoured by savages than ever returning to our own country .
in this distress , the wind still blowing very hard , one of our men early in the morning cried out , " land ! " and we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out , in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world we were , than the ship struck upon a sand , and in a moment her motion being so stopped , the sea broke over her in such a manner that we expected we should all have perished immediately ; and we were immediately driven into our close quarters , to shelter us from the very foam and spray of the sea .
it is not easy for any one who has not been in the like condition to describe or conceive the consternation of men in such circumstances .
we knew nothing where we were , or upon what land it was we were driven - whether an island or the main , whether inhabited or not inhabited .
as the rage of the wind was still great , though rather less than at first , we could not so much as hope to have the ship hold many minutes without breaking into pieces , unless the winds , by a kind of miracle , should turn immediately about .
in a word , we sat looking upon one another , and expecting death every moment , and every man , accordingly , preparing for another world ; for there was little or nothing more for us to do in this .
that which was our present comfort , and all the comfort we had , was that , contrary to our expectation , the ship did not break yet , and that the master said the wind began to abate .
now , though we thought that the wind did a little abate , yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand , and sticking too fast for us to expect her getting off , we were in a dreadful condition indeed , and had nothing to do but to think of saving our lives as well as we could .
we had a boat at our stern just before the storm , but she was first staved by dashing against the ship 's rudder , and in the next place she broke away , and either sunk or was driven off to sea ; so there was no hope from her .
we had another boat on board , but how to get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing . however , there was no time to debate , for we fancied that the ship would break in pieces every minute , and some told us she was actually broken already .
in this distress the mate of our vessel laid hold of the boat , and with the help of the rest of the men got her slung over the ship 's side ; and getting all into her , let go , and committed ourselves , being eleven in number , to god 's mercy and the wild sea ; for though the storm was abated considerably , yet the sea ran dreadfully high upon the shore , and might be well called _ den wild zee _ , as the dutch call the sea in a storm .
and now our case was very dismal indeed ; for we all saw plainly that the sea went so high that the boat could not live , and that we should be inevitably drowned .
as to making sail , we had none , nor if we had could we have done anything with it ; so we worked at the oar towards the land , though with heavy hearts , like men going to execution ; for we all knew that when the boat came near the shore she would be dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the sea .
however , we committed our souls to god in the most earnest manner ; and the wind driving us towards the shore , we hastened our destruction with our own hands , pulling as well as we could towards land .
what the shore was , whether rock or sand , whether steep or shoal , we knew not .
the only hope that could rationally give us the least shadow of expectation was , if we might find some bay or gulf , or the mouth of some river , where by great chance we might have run our boat in , or got under the lee of the land , and perhaps made smooth water .
but there was nothing like this appeared ; but as we made nearer and nearer the shore , the land looked more frightful than the sea .
after we had rowed , or rather driven about a league and a half , as we reckoned it , a raging wave , mountain-like , came rolling astern of us , and plainly bade us expect the _ coup de grace _ .
it took us with such a fury , that it overset the boat at once ; and separating us as well from the boat as from one another , gave us no time to say , " o god ! " for we were all swallowed up in a moment .
nothing can describe the confusion of thought which i felt when i sank into the water ; for though i swam very well , yet i could not deliver myself from the waves so as to draw breath , till that wave having driven me , or rather carried me , a vast way on towards the shore , and having spent itself , went back , and left me upon the land almost dry , but half dead with the water i took in .
i had so much presence of mind , as well as breath left , that seeing myself nearer the mainland than i expected , i got upon my feet , and endeavoured to make on towards the land as fast as i could before another wave should return and take me up again ; but i soon found it was impossible to avoid it ; for i saw the sea come after me as high as a great hill , and as furious as an enemy , which i had no means or strength to contend with : my business was to hold my breath , and raise myself upon the water if i could ; and so , by swimming , to preserve my breathing , and pilot myself towards the shore , if possible , my greatest concern now being that the sea , as it would carry me a great way towards the shore when it came on , might not carry me back again with it when it gave back towards the sea .
the wave that came upon me again buried me at once twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body , and i could feel myself carried with a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore - a very great way ; but i held my breath , and assisted myself to swim still forward with all my might .
i was ready to burst with holding my breath , when , as i felt myself rising up , so , to my immediate relief , i found my head and hands shoot out above the surface of the water ; and though it was not two seconds of time that i could keep myself so , yet it relieved me greatly , gave me breath , and new courage .
i was covered again with water a good while , but not so long but i held it out ; and finding the water had spent itself , and began to return , i struck forward against the return of the waves , and felt ground again with my feet .
i stood still a few moments to recover breath , and till the waters went from me , and then took to my heels and ran with what strength i had further towards the shore .
but neither would this deliver me from the fury of the sea , which came pouring in after me again ; and twice more i was lifted up by the waves and carried forward as before , the shore being very flat .
the last time of these two had well-nigh been fatal to me , for the sea having hurried me along as before , landed me , or rather dashed me , against a piece of rock , and that with such force , that it left me senseless , and indeed helpless , as to my own deliverance ; for the blow taking my side and breast , beat the breath as it were quite out of my body ; and had it returned again immediately , i must have been strangled in the water ; but i recovered a little before the return of the waves , and seeing i should be covered again with the water , i resolved to hold fast by a piece of the rock , and so to hold my breath , if possible , till the wave went back .
now , as the waves were not so high as at first , being nearer land , i held my hold till the wave abated , and then fetched another run , which brought me so near the shore that the next wave , though it went over me , yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me away ; and the next run i took , i got to the mainland , where , to my great comfort , i clambered up the cliffs of the shore and sat me down upon the grass , free from danger and quite out of the reach of the water .
i was now landed and safe on shore , and began to look up and thank god that my life was saved , in a case wherein there was some minutes before scarce any room to hope .
i believe it is impossible to express , to the life , what the ecstasies and transports of the soul are , when it is so saved , as i may say , out of the very grave : and i do not wonder now at the custom , when a malefactor , who has the halter about his neck , is tied up , and just going to be turned off , and has a reprieve brought to him - i say , i do not wonder that they bring a surgeon with it , to let him blood that very moment they tell him of it , that the surprise may not drive the animal spirits from the heart and overwhelm him .
" for sudden joys , like griefs , confound at first . " i walked about on the shore lifting up my hands , and my whole being , as i may say , wrapped up in a contemplation of my deliverance ; making a thousand gestures and motions , which i cannot describe ; reflecting upon all my comrades that were drowned , and that there should not be one soul saved but myself ; for , as for them , i never saw them afterwards , or any sign of them , except three of their hats , one cap , and two shoes that were not fellows .
i cast my eye to the stranded vessel , when , the breach and froth of the sea being so big , i could hardly see it , it lay so far of ; and considered , lord ! how was it possible i could get on shore ?
after i had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of my condition , i began to look round me , to see what kind of place i was in , and what was next to be done ; and i soon found my comforts abate , and that , in a word , i had a dreadful deliverance ; for i was wet , had no clothes to shift me , nor anything either to eat or drink to comfort me ; neither did i see any prospect before me but that of perishing with hunger or being devoured by wild beasts ; and that which was particularly afflicting to me was , that i had no weapon , either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance , or to defend myself against any other creature that might desire to kill me for theirs .
in a word , i had nothing about me but a knife , a tobacco-pipe , and a little tobacco in a box .
this was all my provisions ; and this threw me into such terrible agonies of mind , that for a while i ran about like a madman .
night coming upon me , i began with a heavy heart to consider what would be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that country , as at night they always come abroad for their prey .
all the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that time was to get up into a thick bushy tree like a fir , but thorny , which grew near me , and where i resolved to sit all night , and consider the next day what death i should die , for as yet i saw no prospect of life .
i walked about a furlong from the shore , to see if i could find any fresh water to drink , which i did , to my great joy ; and having drank , and put a little tobacco into my mouth to prevent hunger , i went to the tree , and getting up into it , endeavoured to place myself so that if i should sleep i might not fall .
and having cut me a short stick , like a truncheon , for my defence , i took up my lodging ; and having been excessively fatigued , i fell fast asleep , and slept as comfortably as , i believe , few could have done in my condition , and found myself more refreshed with it than , i think , i ever was on such an occasion .
when i waked it was broad day , the weather clear , and the storm abated , so that the sea did not rage and swell as before .
but that which surprised me most was , that the ship was lifted off in the night from the sand where she lay by the swelling of the tide , and was driven up almost as far as the rock which i at first mentioned , where i had been so bruised by the wave dashing me against it .
this being within about a mile from the shore where i was , and the ship seeming to stand upright still , i wished myself on board , that at least i might save some necessary things for my use .
when i came down from my apartment in the tree , i looked about me again , and the first thing i found was the boat , which lay , as the wind and the sea had tossed her up , upon the land , about two miles on my right hand .
i walked as far as i could upon the shore to have got to her ; but found a neck or inlet of water between me and the boat which was about half a mile broad ; so i came back for the present , being more intent upon getting at the ship , where i hoped to find something for my present subsistence .
a little after noon i found the sea very calm , and the tide ebbed so far out that i could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship .
and here i found a fresh renewing of my grief ; for i saw evidently that if we had kept on board we had been all safe - that is to say , we had all got safe on shore , and i had not been so miserable as to be left entirety destitute of all comfort and company as i now was .
this forced tears to my eyes again ; but as there was little relief in that , i resolved , if possible , to get to the ship ; so i pulled off my clothes - for the weather was hot to extremity - and took the water .
but when i came to the ship my difficulty was still greater to know how to get on board ; for , as she lay aground , and high out of the water , there was nothing within my reach to lay hold of .
i swam round her twice , and the second time i spied a small piece of rope , which i wondered i did not see at first , hung down by the fore-chains so low , as that with great difficulty i got hold of it , and by the help of that rope i got up into the forecastle of the ship .
here i found that the ship was bulged , and had a great deal of water in her hold , but that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand , or , rather earth , that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank , and her head low , almost to the water . by this means all her quarter was free , and all that was in that part was dry ; for you may be sure my first work was to search , and to see what was spoiled and what was free .
and , first , i found that all the ship 's provisions were dry and untouched by the water , and being very well disposed to eat , i went to the bread room and filled my pockets with biscuit , and ate it as i went about other things , for i had no time to lose .
i also found some rum in the great cabin , of which i took a large dram , and which i had , indeed , need enough of to spirit me for what was before me .
now i wanted nothing but a boat to furnish myself with many things which i foresaw would be very necessary to me .
it was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had ; and this extremity roused my application .
we had several spare yards , and two or three large spars of wood , and a spare topmast or two in the ship ; i resolved to fall to work with these , and i flung as many of them overboard as i could manage for their weight , tying every one with a rope , that they might not drive away .
when this was done i went down the ship 's side , and pulling them to me , i tied four of them together at both ends as well as i could , in the form of a raft , and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon them crossways , i found i could walk upon it very well , but that it was not able to bear any great weight , the pieces being too light .
so i went to work , and with a carpenter 's saw i cut a spare topmast into three lengths , and added them to my raft , with a great deal of labour and pains .
but the hope of furnishing myself with necessaries encouraged me to go beyond what i should have been able to have done upon another occasion .
my raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight . my next care was what to load it with , and how to preserve what i laid upon it from the surf of the sea ; but i was not long considering this .
i first laid all the planks or boards upon it that i could get , and having considered well what i most wanted , i got three of the seamen 's chests , which i had broken open , and emptied , and lowered them down upon my raft ; the first of these i filled with provisions - viz. bread , rice , three dutch cheeses , five pieces of dried goat 's flesh ( which we lived much upon ) , and a little remainder of european corn , which had been laid by for some fowls which we brought to sea with us , but the fowls were killed .
there had been some barley and wheat together ; but , to my great disappointment , i found afterwards that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all .
as for liquors , i found several , cases of bottles belonging to our skipper , in which were some cordial waters ; and , in all , about five or six gallons of rack . these i stowed by themselves , there being no need to put them into the chest , nor any room for them .
while i was doing this , i found the tide begin to flow , though very calm ; and i had the mortification to see my coat , shirt , and waistcoat , which i had left on the shore , upon the sand , swim away .
as for my breeches , which were only linen , and open-kneed , i swam on board in them and my stockings .
however , this set me on rummaging for clothes , of which i found enough , but took no more than i wanted for present use , for i had others things which my eye was more upon - as , first , tools to work with on shore .
and it was after long searching that i found out the carpenter 's chest , which was , indeed , a very useful prize to me , and much more valuable than a shipload of gold would have been at that time .
i got it down to my raft , whole as it was , without losing time to look into it , for i knew in general what it contained .
my next care was for some ammunition and arms . there were two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin , and two pistols .
these i secured first , with some powder-horns and a small bag of shot , and two old rusty swords . i knew there were three barrels of powder in the ship , but knew not where our gunner had stowed them ; but with much search i found them , two of them dry and good , the third had taken water .
those two i got to my raft with the arms . and now i thought myself pretty well freighted , and began to think how i should get to shore with them , having neither sail , oar , nor rudder ; and the least capful of wind would have overset all my navigation .
i had three encouragements - 1st , a smooth , calm sea ; 2ndly , the tide rising , and setting in to the shore ; 3rdly , what little wind there was blew me towards the land .
and thus , having found two or three broken oars belonging to the boat - and , besides the tools which were in the chest , i found two saws , an axe , and a hammer ; with this cargo i put to sea .
for a mile or thereabouts my raft went very well , only that i found it drive a little distant from the place where i had landed before ; by which i perceived that there was some indraft of the water , and consequently i hoped to find some creek or river there , which i might make use of as a port to get to land with my cargo .
as i imagined , so it was .
there appeared before me a little opening of the land , and i found a strong current of the tide set into it ; so i guided my raft as well as i could , to keep in the middle of the stream .
but here i had like to have suffered a second shipwreck , which , if i had , i think verily would have broken my heart ; for , knowing nothing of the coast , my raft ran aground at one end of it upon a shoal , and not being aground at the other end , it wanted but a little that all my cargo had slipped off towards the end that was afloat , and to fallen into the water .
i did my utmost , by setting my back against the chests , to keep them in their places , but could not thrust off the raft with all my strength ; neither durst i stir from the posture i was in ; but holding up the chests with all my might , i stood in that manner near half-an-hour , in which time the rising of the water brought me a little more upon a level ; and a little after , the water still-rising , my raft floated again , and i thrust her off with the oar i had into the channel , and then driving up higher , i at length found myself in the mouth of a little river , with land on both sides , and a strong current of tide running up .
i looked on both sides for a proper place to get to shore , for i was not willing to be driven too high up the river : hoping in time to see some ships at sea , and therefore resolved to place myself as near the coast as i could .
at length i spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek , to which with great pain and difficulty i guided my raft , and at last got so near that , reaching ground with my oar , i could thrust her directly in . but here i had like to have dipped all my cargo into the sea again ; for that shore lying pretty steep - that is to say sloping - there was no place to land , but where one end of my float , if it ran on shore , would lie so high , and the other sink lower , as before , that it would endanger my cargo again .
all that i could do was to wait till the tide was at the highest , keeping the raft with my oar like an anchor , to hold the side of it fast to the shore , near a flat piece of ground , which i expected the water would flow over ; and so it did .
as soon as i found water enough - for my raft drew about a foot of water - i thrust her upon that flat piece of ground , and there fastened or moored her , by sticking my two broken oars into the ground , one on one side near one end , and one on the other side near the other end ; and thus i lay till the water ebbed away , and left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore .
my next work was to view the country , and seek a proper place for my habitation , and where to stow my goods to secure them from whatever might happen .
where i was , i yet knew not ; whether on the continent or on an island ; whether inhabited or not inhabited ; whether in danger of wild beasts or not .
there was a hill not above a mile from me , which rose up very steep and high , and which seemed to overtop some other hills , which lay as in a ridge from it northward .
i took out one of the fowling-pieces , and one of the pistols , and a horn of powder ; and thus armed , i travelled for discovery up to the top of that hill , where , after i had with great labour and difficulty got to the top , i saw my fate , to my great affliction - viz. that i was in an island environed every way with the sea : no land to be seen except some rocks , which lay a great way off ; and two small islands , less than this , which lay about three leagues to the west .
i found also that the island i was in was barren , and , as i saw good reason to believe , uninhabited except by wild beasts , of whom , however , i saw none .
yet i saw abundance of fowls , but knew not their kinds ; neither when i killed them could i tell what was fit for food , and what not .
at my coming back , i shot at a great bird which i saw sitting upon a tree on the side of a great wood . i believe it was the first gun that had been fired there since the creation of the world .
i had no sooner fired , than from all parts of the wood there arose an innumerable number of fowls , of many sorts , making a confused screaming and crying , and every one according to his usual note , but not one of them of any kind that i knew .
as for the creature i killed , i took it to be a kind of hawk , its colour and beak resembling it , but it had no talons or claws more than common . its flesh was carrion , and fit for nothing .
contented with this discovery , i came back to my raft , and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore , which took me up the rest of that day .
what to do with myself at night i knew not , nor indeed where to rest , for i was afraid to lie down on the ground , not knowing but some wild beast might devour me , though , as i afterwards found , there was really no need for those fears .
however , as well as i could , i barricaded myself round with the chest and boards that i had brought on shore , and made a kind of hut for that night 's lodging .
as for food , i yet saw not which way to supply myself , except that i had seen two or three creatures like hares run out of the wood where i shot the fowl .
i now began to consider that i might yet get a great many things out of the ship which would be useful to me , and particularly some of the rigging and sails , and such other things as might come to land ; and i resolved to make another voyage on board the vessel , if possible . and as i knew that the first storm that blew must necessarily break her all in pieces , i resolved to set all other things apart till i had got everything out of the ship that i could get .
then i called a council - that is to say in my thoughts - whether i should take back the raft ; but this appeared impracticable : so i resolved to go as before , when the tide was down ; and i did so , only that i stripped before i went from my hut , having nothing on but my chequered shirt , a pair of linen drawers , and a pair of pumps on my feet .
i got on board the ship as before , and prepared a second raft ; and , having had experience of the first , i neither made this so unwieldy , nor loaded it so hard , but yet i brought away several things very useful to me ; as first , in the carpenters stores i found two or three bags full of nails and spikes , a great screw-jack , a dozen or two of hatchets , and , above all , that most useful thing called a grindstone .
all these i secured , together with several things belonging to the gunner , particularly two or three iron crows , and two barrels of musket bullets , seven muskets , another fowling-piece , with some small quantity of powder more ; a large bagful of small shot , and a great roll of sheet-lead ; but this last was so heavy , i could not hoist it up to get it over the ship 's side .
besides these things , i took all the men 's clothes that i could find , and a spare fore-topsail , a hammock , and some bedding ; and with this i loaded my second raft , and brought them all safe on shore , to my very great comfort .
i was under some apprehension , during my absence from the land , that at least my provisions might be devoured on shore : but when i came back i found no sign of any visitor ; only there sat a creature like a wild cat upon one of the chests , which , when i came towards it , ran away a little distance , and then stood still .
she sat very composed and unconcerned , and looked full in my face , as if she had a mind to be acquainted with me .
i presented my gun at her , but , as she did not understand it , she was perfectly unconcerned at it , nor did she offer to stir away ; upon which i tossed her a bit of biscuit , though by the way , i was not very free of it , for my store was not great : however , i spared her a bit , i say , and she went to it , smelled at it , and ate it , and looked ( as if pleased ) for more ; but i thanked her , and could spare no more : so she marched off .
having got my second cargo on shore - though i was fain to open the barrels of powder , and bring them by parcels , for they were too heavy , being large casks - i went to work to make me a little tent with the sail and some poles which i cut for that purpose : and into this tent i brought everything that i knew would spoil either with rain or sun ; and i piled all the empty chests and casks up in a circle round the tent , to fortify it from any sudden attempt , either from man or beast .
when i had done this , i blocked up the door of the tent with some boards within , and an empty chest set up on end without ; and spreading one of the beds upon the ground , laying my two pistols just at my head , and my gun at length by me , i went to bed for the first time , and slept very quietly all night , for i was very weary and heavy ; for the night before i had slept little , and had laboured very hard all day to fetch all those things from the ship , and to get them on shore .
i had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever was laid up , i believe , for one man : but i was not satisfied still , for while the ship sat upright in that posture , i thought i ought to get everything out of her that i could ; so every day at low water i went on board , and brought away something or other ; but particularly the third time i went i brought away as much of the rigging as i could , as also all the small ropes and rope-twine i could get , with a piece of spare canvas , which was to mend the sails upon occasion , and the barrel of wet gunpowder .
in a word , i brought away all the sails , first and last ; only that i was fain to cut them in pieces , and bring as much at a time as i could , for they were no more useful to be sails , but as mere canvas only .
but that which comforted me more still , was , that last of all , after i had made five or six such voyages as these , and thought i had nothing more to expect from the ship that was worth my meddling with - i say , after all this , i found a great hogshead of bread , three large runlets of rum , or spirits , a box of sugar , and a barrel of fine flour ; this was surprising to me , because i had given over expecting any more provisions , except what was spoiled by the water .
i soon emptied the hogshead of the bread , and wrapped it up , parcel by parcel , in pieces of the sails , which i cut out ; and , in a word , i got all this safe on shore also .
the next day i made another voyage , and now , having plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to hand out , i began with the cables .
cutting the great cable into pieces , such as i could move , i got two cables and a hawser on shore , with all the ironwork i could get ; and having cut down the spritsail-yard , and the mizzen-yard , and everything i could , to make a large raft , i loaded it with all these heavy goods , and came away .
but my good luck began now to leave me ; for this raft was so unwieldy , and so overladen , that , after i had entered the little cove where i had landed the rest of my goods , not being able to guide it so handily as i did the other , it overset , and threw me and all my cargo into the water .
as for myself , it was no great harm , for i was near the shore ; but as to my cargo , it was a great part of it lost , especially the iron , which i expected would have been of great use to me ; however , when the tide was out , i got most of the pieces of the cable ashore , and some of the iron , though with infinite labour ; for i was fain to dip for it into the water , a work which fatigued me very much .
after this , i went every day on board , and brought away what i could get .
i had been now thirteen days on shore , and had been eleven times on board the ship , in which time i had brought away all that one pair of hands could well be supposed capable to bring ; though i believe verily , had the calm weather held , i should have brought away the whole ship , piece by piece .
but preparing the twelfth time to go on board , i found the wind began to rise : however , at low water i went on board , and though i thought i had rummaged the cabin so effectually that nothing more could be found , yet i discovered a locker with drawers in it , in one of which i found two or three razors , and one pair of large scissors , with some ten or a dozen of good knives and forks : in another i found about thirty-six pounds value in money - some european coin , some brazil , some pieces of eight , some gold , and some silver .
i smiled to myself at the sight of this money : " o drug ! " said i , aloud , " what art thou good for ?
thou art not worth to me - no , not the taking off the ground ; one of those knives is worth all this heap ; i have no manner of use for thee - e 'en remain where thou art , and go to the bottom as a creature whose life is not worth saying . "
however , upon second thoughts i took it away ; and wrapping all this in a piece of canvas , i began to think of making another raft ; but while i was preparing this , i found the sky overcast , and the wind began to rise , and in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the shore .
it presently occurred to me that it was in vain to pretend to make a raft with the wind offshore ; and that it was my business to be gone before the tide of flood began , otherwise i might not be able to reach the shore at all .
accordingly , i let myself down into the water , and swam across the channel , which lay between the ship and the sands , and even that with difficulty enough , partly with the weight of the things i had about me , and partly the roughness of the water ; for the wind rose very hastily , and before it was quite high water it blew a storm .
but i had got home to my little tent , where i lay , with all my wealth about me , very secure .
it blew very hard all night , and in the morning , when i looked out , behold , no more ship was to be seen !
i was a little surprised , but recovered myself with the satisfactory reflection that i had lost no time , nor abated any diligence , to get everything out of her that could be useful to me ; and that , indeed , there was little left in her that i was able to bring away , if i had had more time .
i now gave over any more thoughts of the ship , or of anything out of her , except what might drive on shore from her wreck ; as , indeed , divers pieces of her afterwards did ; but those things were of small use to me .
my thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself against either savages , if any should appear , or wild beasts , if any were in the island ; and i had many thoughts of the method how to do this , and what kind of dwelling to make - whether i should make me a cave in the earth , or a tent upon the earth ; and , in short , i resolved upon both ; the manner and description of which , it may not be improper to give an account of .
i soon found the place i was in was not fit for my settlement , because it was upon a low , moorish ground , near the sea , and i believed it would not be wholesome , and more particularly because there was no fresh water near it ; so i resolved to find a more healthy and more convenient spot of ground .
i consulted several things in my situation , which i found would he proper for me : 1st , health and fresh water , i just now mentioned ; 2ndly , shelter from the heat of the sun ; 3rdly , security from ravenous creatures , whether man or beast ; 4thly , a view to the sea , that if god sent any ship in sight , i might not lose any advantage for my deliverance , of which i was not willing to banish all my expectation yet .
in search of a place proper for this , i found a little plain on the side of a rising hill , whose front towards this little plain was steep as a house-side , so that nothing could come down upon me from the top .
on the one side of the rock there was a hollow place , worn a little way in , like the entrance or door of a cave but there was not really any cave or way into the rock at all .
on the flat of the green , just before this hollow place , i resolved to pitch my tent .
this plain was not above a hundred yards broad , and about twice as long , and lay like a green before my door ; and , at the end of it , descended irregularly every way down into the low ground by the seaside .
it was on the n.n.w. side of the hill ; so that it was sheltered from the heat every day , till it came to a w. and by s. sun , or thereabouts , which , in those countries , is near the setting .
before i set up my tent i drew a half-circle before the hollow place , which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter from the rock , and twenty yards in its diameter from its beginning and ending .
in this half-circle i pitched two rows of strong stakes , driving them into the ground till they stood very firm like piles , the biggest end being out of the ground above five feet and a half , and sharpened on the top . the two rows did not stand above six inches from one another .
then i took the pieces of cable which i had cut in the ship , and laid them in rows , one upon another , within the circle , between these two rows of stakes , up to the top , placing other stakes in the inside , leaning against them , about two feet and a half high , like a spur to a post ; and this fence was so strong , that neither man nor beast could get into it or over it .
this cost me a great deal of time and labour , especially to cut the piles in the woods , bring them to the place , and drive them into the earth .
the entrance into this place i made to be , not by a door , but by a short ladder to go over the top ; which ladder , when i was in , i lifted over after me ; and so i was completely fenced in and fortified , as i thought , from all the world , and consequently slept secure in the night , which otherwise i could not have done ; though , as it appeared afterwards , there was no need of all this caution from the enemies that i apprehended danger from .
into this fence or fortress , with infinite labour , i carried all my riches , all my provisions , ammunition , and stores , of which you have the account above ; and i made a large tent , which to preserve me from the rains that in one part of the year are very violent there , i made double - one smaller tent within , and one larger tent above it ; and covered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin , which i had saved among the sails .
and now i lay no more for a while in the bed which i had brought on shore , but in a hammock , which was indeed a very good one , and belonged to the mate of the ship .
into this tent i brought all my provisions , and everything that would spoil by the wet ; and having thus enclosed all my goods , i made up the entrance , which till now i had left open , and so passed and repassed , as i said , by a short ladder .
when i had done this , i began to work my way into the rock , and bringing all the earth and stones that i dug down out through my tent , i laid them up within my fence , in the nature of a terrace , so that it raised the ground within about a foot and a half ; and thus i made me a cave , just behind my tent , which served me like a cellar to my house .
it cost me much labour and many days before all these things were brought to perfection ; and therefore i must go back to some other things which took up some of my thoughts .
at the same time it happened , after i had laid my scheme for the setting up my tent , and making the cave , that a storm of rain falling from a thick , dark cloud , a sudden flash of lightning happened , and after that a great clap of thunder , as is naturally the effect of it .
i was not so much surprised with the lightning as i was with the thought which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning itself - oh , my powder !
my very heart sank within me when i thought that , at one blast , all my powder might be destroyed ; on which , not my defence only , but the providing my food , as i thought , entirely depended .
i was nothing near so anxious about my own danger , though , had the powder took fire , i should never have known who had hurt me .
such impression did this make upon me , that after the storm was over i laid aside all my works , my building and fortifying , and applied myself to make bags and boxes , to separate the powder , and to keep it a little and a little in a parcel , in the hope that , whatever might come , it might not all take fire at once ; and to keep it so apart that it should not be possible to make one part fire another .
i finished this work in about a fortnight ; and i think my powder , which in all was about two hundred and forty pounds weight , was divided in not less than a hundred parcels .
as to the barrel that had been wet , i did not apprehend any danger from that ; so i placed it in my new cave , which , in my fancy , i called my kitchen ; and the rest i hid up and down in holes among the rocks , so that no wet might come to it , marking very carefully where i laid it .
in the interval of time while this was doing , i went out once at least every day with my gun , as well to divert myself as to see if i could kill anything fit for food ; and , as near as i could , to acquaint myself with what the island produced .
the first time i went out , i presently discovered that there were goats in the island , which was a great satisfaction to me ; but then it was attended with this misfortune to me - viz. that they were so shy , so subtle , and so swift of foot , that it was the most difficult thing in the world to come at them ; but i was not discouraged at this , not doubting but i might now and then shoot one , as it soon happened ; for after i had found their haunts a little , i laid wait in this manner for them : i observed if they saw me in the valleys , though they were upon the rocks , they would run away , as in a terrible fright ; but if they were feeding in the valleys , and i was upon the rocks , they took no notice of me ; from whence i concluded that , by the position of their optics , their sight was so directed downward that they did not readily see objects that were above them ; so afterwards i took this method - i always climbed the rocks first , to get above them , and then had frequently a fair mark .
the first shot i made among these creatures , i killed a she-goat , which had a little kid by her , which she gave suck to , which grieved me heartily ; for when the old one fell , the kid stood stock still by her , till i came and took her up ; and not only so , but when i carried the old one with me , upon my shoulders , the kid followed me quite to my enclosure ; upon which i laid down the dam , and took the kid in my arms , and carried it over my pale , in hopes to have bred it up tame ; but it would not eat ; so i was forced to kill it and eat it myself .
these two supplied me with flesh a great while , for i ate sparingly , and saved my provisions , my bread especially , as much as possibly i could .
having now fixed my habitation , i found it absolutely necessary to provide a place to make a fire in , and fuel to burn : and what i did for that , and also how i enlarged my cave , and what conveniences i made , i shall give a full account of in its place ; but i must now give some little account of myself , and of my thoughts about living , which , it may well be supposed , were not a few .
i had a dismal prospect of my condition ; for as i was not cast away upon that island without being driven , as is said , by a violent storm , quite out of the course of our intended voyage , and a great way , viz. some hundreds of leagues , out of the ordinary course of the trade of mankind , i had great reason to consider it as a determination of heaven , that in this desolate place , and in this desolate manner , i should end my life .
the tears would run plentifully down my face when i made these reflections ; and sometimes i would expostulate with myself why providence should thus completely ruin his creatures , and render them so absolutely miserable ; so without help , abandoned , so entirely depressed , that it could hardly be rational to be thankful for such a life .
but something always returned swift upon me to check these thoughts , and to reprove me ; and particularly one day , walking with my gun in my hand by the seaside , i was very pensive upon the subject of my present condition , when reason , as it were , expostulated with me the other way , thus : " well , you are in a desolate condition , it is true ; but , pray remember , where are the rest of you ? did not you come , eleven of you in the boat ?
where are the ten ? why were they not saved , and you lost ?
why were you singled out ?
is it better to be here or there ? "
and then i pointed to the sea . all evils are to be considered with the good that is in them , and with what worse attends them .
then it occurred to me again , how well i was furnished for my subsistence , and what would have been my case if it had not happened ( which was a hundred thousand to one ) that the ship floated from the place where she first struck , and was driven so near to the shore that i had time to get all these things out of her ; what would have been my case , if i had been forced to have lived in the condition in which i at first came on shore , without necessaries of life , or necessaries to supply and procure them ?
" particularly , " said i , aloud ( though to myself ) , " what should i have done without a gun , without ammunition , without any tools to make anything , or to work with , without clothes , bedding , a tent , or any manner of covering ? " and that now i had all these to sufficient quantity , and was in a fair way to provide myself in such a manner as to live without my gun , when my ammunition was spent : so that i had a tolerable view of subsisting , without any want , as long as i lived ; for i considered from the beginning how i would provide for the accidents that might happen , and for the time that was to come , even not only after my ammunition should be spent , but even after my health and strength should decay .
i confess i had not entertained any notion of my ammunition being destroyed at one blast - i mean my powder being blown up by lightning ; and this made the thoughts of it so surprising to me , when it lightened and thundered , as i observed just now .
and now being about to enter into a melancholy relation of a scene of silent life , such , perhaps , as was never heard of in the world before , i shall take it from its beginning , and continue it in its order .
it was by my account the 30th of september , when , in the manner as above said , i first set foot upon this horrid island ; when the sun , being to us in its autumnal equinox , was almost over my head ; for i reckoned myself , by observation , to be in the latitude of nine degrees twenty-two minutes north of the line .
after i had been there about ten or twelve days , it came into my thoughts that i should lose my reckoning of time for want of books , and pen and ink , and should even forget the sabbath days ; but to prevent this , i cut with my knife upon a large post , in capital letters - and making it into a great cross , i set it up on the shore where i first landed - " i came on shore here on the 30th september 1659 . " upon the sides of this square post i cut every day a notch with my knife , and every seventh notch was as long again as the rest , and every first day of the month as long again as that long one ; and thus i kept my calendar , or weekly , monthly , and yearly reckoning of time .
in the next place , we are to observe that among the many things which i brought out of the ship , in the several voyages which , as above mentioned , i made to it , i got several things of less value , but not at all less useful to me , which i omitted setting down before ; as , in particular , pens , ink , and paper , several parcels in the captain 's , mate 's , gunner 's and carpenter 's keeping ; three or four compasses , some mathematical instruments , dials , perspectives , charts , and books of navigation , all which i huddled together , whether i might want them or no ; also , i found three very good bibles , which came to me in my cargo from england , and which i had packed up among my things ; some portuguese books also ; and among them two or three popish prayer-books , and several other books , all which i carefully secured .
and i must not forget that we had in the ship a dog and two cats , of whose eminent history i may have occasion to say something in its place ; for i carried both the cats with me ; and as for the dog , he jumped out of the ship of himself , and swam on shore to me the day after i went on shore with my first cargo , and was a trusty servant to me many years ; i wanted nothing that he could fetch me , nor any company that he could make up to me ; i only wanted to have him talk to me , but that would not do .
as i observed before , i found pens , ink , and paper , and i husbanded them to the utmost ; and i shall show that while my ink lasted , i kept things very exact , but after that was gone i could not , for i could not make any ink by any means that i could devise .
and this put me in mind that i wanted many things notwithstanding all that i had amassed together ; and of these , ink was one ; as also a spade , pickaxe , and shovel , to dig or remove the earth ; needles , pins , and thread ; as for linen , i soon learned to want that without much difficulty .
this want of tools made every work i did go on heavily ; and it was near a whole year before i had entirely finished my little pale , or surrounded my habitation .
the piles , or stakes , which were as heavy as i could well lift , were a long time in cutting and preparing in the woods , and more , by far , in bringing home ; so that i spent sometimes two days in cutting and bringing home one of those posts , and a third day in driving it into the ground ; for which purpose i got a heavy piece of wood at first , but at last bethought myself of one of the iron crows ; which , however , though i found it , made driving those posts or piles very laborious and tedious work .
but what need i have been concerned at the tediousness of anything i had to do , seeing i had time enough to do it in ? nor had i any other employment , if that had been over , at least that i could foresee , except the ranging the island to seek for food , which i did , more or less , every day .
i now began to consider seriously my condition , and the circumstances i was reduced to ; and i drew up the state of my affairs in writing , not so much to leave them to any that were to come after me - for i was likely to have but few heirs - as to deliver my thoughts from daily poring over them , and afflicting my mind ; and as my reason began now to master my despondency , i began to comfort myself as well as i could , and to set the good against the evil , that i might have something to distinguish my case from worse ; and i stated very impartially , like debtor and creditor , the comforts i enjoyed against the miseries i suffered , thus : -
_ evil _ . _ good _ .
i am cast upon a horrible , but i am alive ; and not drowned , desolate island , void of all hope as all my ship 's company were. of recovery .
i am singled out and separated , but i am singled out , too , from as it were , from all the world , all the ship 's crew , to be spared to be miserable. from death ; and he that miraculously saved me from death can deliver me from this condition .
i am divided from mankind - a but i am not starved , and solitaire ; one banished from perishing on a barren place , human society. affording no sustenance .
i have no clothes to cover me .
but i am in a hot climate , where , if i had clothes , i could hardly wear them .
i am without any defence , or but i am cast on an island where means to resist any violence of i see no wild beasts to hurt me , man or beast. as i saw on the coast of africa ; and what if i had been shipwrecked there ?
i have no soul to speak to or but god wonderfully sent the ship relieve me. in near enough to the shore , that i have got out as many necessary things as will either supply my wants or enable me to supply myself , even as long as i live .
upon the whole , here was an undoubted testimony that there was scarce any condition in the world so miserable but there was something negative or something positive to be thankful for in it ; and let this stand as a direction from the experience of the most miserable of all conditions in this world : that we may always find in it something to comfort ourselves from , and to set , in the description of good and evil , on the credit side of the account .
having now brought my mind a little to relish my condition , and given over looking out to sea , to see if i could spy a ship - i say , giving over these things , i began to apply myself to arrange my way of living , and to make things as easy to me as i could .
i have already described my habitation , which was a tent under the side of a rock , surrounded with a strong pale of posts and cables : but i might now rather call it a wall , for i raised a kind of wall up against it of turfs , about two feet thick on the outside ; and after some time ( i think it was a year and a half ) i raised rafters from it , leaning to the rock , and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees , and such things as i could get , to keep out the rain ; which i found at some times of the year very violent .
i have already observed how i brought all my goods into this pale , and into the cave which i had made behind me .
but i must observe , too , that at first this was a confused heap of goods , which , as they lay in no order , so they took up all my place ; i had no room to turn myself : so i set myself to enlarge my cave , and work farther into the earth ; for it was a loose sandy rock , which yielded easily to the labour i bestowed on it : and so when i found i was pretty safe as to beasts of prey , i worked sideways , to the right hand , into the rock ; and then , turning to the right again , worked quite out , and made me a door to come out on the outside of my pale or fortification .
this gave me not only egress and regress , as it was a back way to my tent and to my storehouse , but gave me room to store my goods .
and now i began to apply myself to make such necessary things as i found i most wanted , particularly a chair and a table ; for without these i was not able to enjoy the few comforts i had in the world ; i could not write or eat , or do several things , with so much pleasure without a table : so i went to work .
and here i must needs observe , that as reason is the substance and origin of the mathematics , so by stating and squaring everything by reason , and by making the most rational judgment of things , every man may be , in time , master of every mechanic art .
i had never handled a tool in my life ; and yet , in time , by labour , application , and contrivance , i found at last that i wanted nothing but i could have made it , especially if i had had tools .
however , i made abundance of things , even without tools ; and some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet , which perhaps were never made that way before , and that with infinite labour .
for example , if i wanted a board , i had no other way but to cut down a tree , set it on an edge before me , and hew it flat on either side with my axe , till i brought it to be thin as a plank , and then dub it smooth with my adze .
it is true , by this method i could make but one board out of a whole tree ; but this i had no remedy for but patience , any more than i had for the prodigious deal of time and labour which it took me up to make a plank or board : but my time or labour was little worth , and so it was as well employed one way as another .
however , i made me a table and a chair , as i observed above , in the first place ; and this i did out of the short pieces of boards that i brought on my raft from the ship .
but when i had wrought out some boards as above , i made large shelves , of the breadth of a foot and a half , one over another all along one side of my cave , to lay all my tools , nails and ironwork on ; and , in a word , to separate everything at large into their places , that i might come easily at them .
i knocked pieces into the wall of the rock to hang my guns and all things that would hang up ; so that , had my cave been to be seen , it looked like a general magazine of all necessary things ; and had everything so ready at my hand , that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my goods in such order , and especially to find my stock of all necessaries so great .
and now it was that i began to keep a journal of every day 's employment ; for , indeed , at first i was in too much hurry , and not only hurry as to labour , but in too much discomposure of mind ; and my journal would have been full of many dull things ; for example , i must have said thus : " 30 _ th _ . - after i had got to shore , and escaped drowning , instead of being thankful to god for my deliverance , having first vomited , with the great quantity of salt water which had got into my stomach , and recovering myself a little , i ran about the shore wringing my hands and beating my head and face , exclaiming at my misery , and crying out , ' i was undone , undone ! ' till , tired and faint , i was forced to lie down on the ground to repose , but durst not sleep for fear of being devoured . "
some days after this , and after i had been on board the ship , and got all that i could out of her , yet i could not forbear getting up to the top of a little mountain and looking out to sea , in hopes of seeing a ship ; then fancy at a vast distance i spied a sail , please myself with the hopes of it , and then after looking steadily , till i was almost blind , lose it quite , and sit down and weep like a child , and thus increase my misery by my folly .
but having gotten over these things in some measure , and having settled my household staff and habitation , made me a table and a chair , and all as handsome about me as i could , i began to keep my journal ; of which i shall here give you the copy ( though in it will be told all these particulars over again ) as long as it lasted ; for having no more ink , i was forced to leave it off .
chapter v - builds a house - the journal
september 30 , 1659 . - i , poor miserable robinson crusoe , being shipwrecked during a dreadful storm in the offing , came on shore on this dismal , unfortunate island , which i called " the island of despair " ; all the rest of the ship 's company being drowned , and myself almost dead .
all the rest of the day i spent in afflicting myself at the dismal circumstances i was brought to - viz . i had neither food , house , clothes , weapon , nor place to fly to ; and in despair of any relief , saw nothing but death before me - either that i should be devoured by wild beasts , murdered by savages , or starved to death for want of food .
at the approach of night i slept in a tree , for fear of wild creatures ; but slept soundly , though it rained all night .
_ october _ 1 . - in the morning i saw , to my great surprise , the ship had floated with the high tide , and was driven on shore again much nearer the island ; which , as it was some comfort , on one hand - for , seeing her set upright , and not broken to pieces , i hoped , if the wind abated , i might get on board , and get some food and necessaries out of her for my relief - so , on the other hand , it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades , who , i imagined , if we had all stayed on board , might have saved the ship , or , at least , that they would not have been all drowned as they were ; and that , had the men been saved , we might perhaps have built us a boat out of the ruins of the ship to have carried us to some other part of the world .
i spent great part of this day in perplexing myself on these things ; but at length , seeing the ship almost dry , i went upon the sand as near as i could , and then swam on board .
this day also it continued raining , though with no wind at all .
_ from the 1st of october to the 24th _ . - all these days entirely spent in many several voyages to get all i could out of the ship , which i brought on shore every tide of flood upon rafts .
much rain also in the days , though with some intervals of fair weather ; but it seems this was the rainy season .
_ oct. _ 20 . - i overset my raft , and all the goods i had got upon it ; but , being in shoal water , and the things being chiefly heavy , i recovered many of them when the tide was out .
_ oct. _ 25 . - it rained all night and all day , with some gusts of wind ; during which time the ship broke in pieces , the wind blowing a little harder than before , and was no more to be seen , except the wreck of her , and that only at low water .
i spent this day in covering and securing the goods which i had saved , that the rain might not spoil them .
_ oct. _ 26 . - i walked about the shore almost all day , to find out a place to fix my habitation , greatly concerned to secure myself from any attack in the night , either from wild beasts or men .
towards night , i fixed upon a proper place , under a rock , and marked out a semicircle for my encampment ; which i resolved to strengthen with a work , wall , or fortification , made of double piles , lined within with cables , and without with turf .
from the 26th to the 30th i worked very hard in carrying all my goods to my new habitation , though some part of the time it rained exceedingly hard .
the 31st , in the morning , i went out into the island with my gun , to seek for some food , and discover the country ; when i killed a she-goat , and her kid followed me home , which i afterwards killed also , because it would not feed .
_ november _ 1 . - i set up my tent under a rock , and lay there for the first night ; making it as large as i could , with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon .
_ nov. _ 2 . - i set up all my chests and boards , and the pieces of timber which made my rafts , and with them formed a fence round me , a little within the place i had marked out for my fortification .
_ nov. _ 3 . - i went out with my gun , and killed two fowls like ducks , which were very good food .
in the afternoon went to work to make me a table .
_ nov _ . 4 . - this morning i began to order my times of work , of going out with my gun , time of sleep , and time of diversion - viz. every morning i walked out with my gun for two or three hours , if it did not rain ; then employed myself to work till about eleven o 'clock ; then eat what i had to live on ; and from twelve to two i lay down to sleep , the weather being excessively hot ; and then , in the evening , to work again .
the working part of this day and of the next were wholly employed in making my table , for i was yet but a very sorry workman , though time and necessity made me a complete natural mechanic soon after , as i believe they would do any one else .
_ nov. _ 5 . - this day went abroad with my gun and my dog , and killed a wild cat ; her skin pretty soft , but her flesh good for nothing ; every creature that i killed i took of the skins and preserved them .
coming back by the sea-shore , i saw many sorts of sea-fowls , which i did not understand ; but was surprised , and almost frightened , with two or three seals , which , while i was gazing at , not well knowing what they were , got into the sea , and escaped me for that time .
_ nov. _ 6 . - after my morning walk i went to work with my table again , and finished it , though not to my liking ; nor was it long before i learned to mend it .
_ nov. _ 7 . - now it began to be settled fair weather .
the 7th , 8th , 9th , 10th , and part of the 12th ( for the 11th was sunday ) i took wholly up to make me a chair , and with much ado brought it to a tolerable shape , but never to please me ; and even in the making i pulled it in pieces several times .
_ note _ . - i soon neglected my keeping sundays ; for , omitting my mark for them on my post , i forgot which was which .
_ nov. _ 13 . - this day it rained , which refreshed me exceedingly , and cooled the earth ; but it was accompanied with terrible thunder and lightning , which frightened me dreadfully , for fear of my powder .
as soon as it was over , i resolved to separate my stock of powder into as many little parcels as possible , that it might not be in danger .
_ nov. _ 14 , 15 , 16 . - these three days i spent in making little square chests , or boxes , which might hold about a pound , or two pounds at most , of powder ; and so , putting the powder in , i stowed it in places as secure and remote from one another as possible .
on one of these three days i killed a large bird that was good to eat , but i knew not what to call it .
_ nov. _ 17 . - this day i began to dig behind my tent into the rock , to make room for my further conveniency .
_ note _ . - three things i wanted exceedingly for this work - viz. a pickaxe , a shovel , and a wheelbarrow or basket ; so i desisted from my work , and began to consider how to supply that want , and make me some tools .
as for the pickaxe , i made use of the iron crows , which were proper enough , though heavy ; but the next thing was a shovel or spade ; this was so absolutely necessary , that , indeed , i could do nothing effectually without it ; but what kind of one to make i knew not .
_ nov. _ 18 . - the next day , in searching the woods , i found a tree of that wood , or like it , which in the brazils they call the iron-tree , for its exceeding hardness .
of this , with great labour , and almost spoiling my axe , i cut a piece , and brought it home , too , with difficulty enough , for it was exceeding heavy .
the excessive hardness of the wood , and my having no other way , made me a long while upon this machine , for i worked it effectually by little and little into the form of a shovel or spade ; the handle exactly shaped like ours in england , only that the board part having no iron shod upon it at bottom , it would not last me so long ; however , it served well enough for the uses which i had occasion to put it to ; but never was a shovel , i believe , made after that fashion , or so long in making .
i was still deficient , for i wanted a basket or a wheelbarrow .
a basket i could not make by any means , having no such things as twigs that would bend to make wicker-ware - at least , none yet found out ; and as to a wheelbarrow , i fancied i could make all but the wheel ; but that i had no notion of ; neither did i know how to go about it ; besides , i had no possible way to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle or axis of the wheel to run in ; so i gave it over , and so , for carrying away the earth which i dug out of the cave , i made me a thing like a hod which the labourers carry mortar in when they serve the bricklayers .
this was not so difficult to me as the making the shovel : and yet this and the shovel , and the attempt which i made in vain to make a wheelbarrow , took me up no less than four days - i mean always excepting my morning walk with my gun , which i seldom failed , and very seldom failed also bringing home something fit to eat .
_ nov. _ 23 . - my other work having now stood still , because of my making these tools , when they were finished i went on , and working every day , as my strength and time allowed , i spent eighteen days entirely in widening and deepening my cave , that it might hold my goods commodiously .
_ note _ . - during all this time i worked to make this room or cave spacious enough to accommodate me as a warehouse or magazine , a kitchen , a dining-room , and a cellar .
as for my lodging , i kept to the tent ; except that sometimes , in the wet season of the year , it rained so hard that i could not keep myself dry , which caused me afterwards to cover all my place within my pale with long poles , in the form of rafters , leaning against the rock , and load them with flags and large leaves of trees , like a thatch .
_ december _ 10 . - i began now to think my cave or vault finished , when on a sudden ( it seems i had made it too large ) a great quantity of earth fell down from the top on one side ; so much that , in short , it frighted me , and not without reason , too , for if i had been under it , i had never wanted a gravedigger .
i had now a great deal of work to do over again , for i had the loose earth to carry out ; and , which was of more importance , i had the ceiling to prop up , so that i might be sure no more would come down .
_ dec _ . 11 . - this day i went to work with it accordingly , and got two shores or posts pitched upright to the top , with two pieces of boards across over each post ; this i finished the next day ; and setting more posts up with boards , in about a week more i had the roof secured , and the posts , standing in rows , served me for partitions to part off the house .
_ dec. _ 17 . - from this day to the 20th i placed shelves , and knocked up nails on the posts , to hang everything up that could be hung up ; and now i began to be in some order within doors .
_ dec. _ 20 . - now i carried everything into the cave , and began to furnish my house , and set up some pieces of boards like a dresser , to order my victuals upon ; but boards began to be very scarce with me ; also , i made me another table .
_ dec. _ 24 . - much rain all night and all day . no stirring out .
_ dec. _ 25 . - rain all day .
_ dec. _ 26 . - no rain , and the earth much cooler than before , and pleasanter .
_ dec. _ 27 . - killed a young goat , and lamed another , so that i caught it and led it home in a string ; when i had it at home , i bound and splintered up its leg , which was broke .
_ n.b. _ - i took such care of it that it lived , and the leg grew well and as strong as ever ; but , by my nursing it so long , it grew tame , and fed upon the little green at my door , and would not go away .
this was the first time that i entertained a thought of breeding up some tame creatures , that i might have food when my powder and shot was all spent .
_ dec. _ 28,29,30,31 . - great heats , and no breeze , so that there was no stirring abroad , except in the evening , for food ; this time i spent in putting all my things in order within doors .
_ january _ 1 . - very hot still : but i went abroad early and late with my gun , and lay still in the middle of the day .
this evening , going farther into the valleys which lay towards the centre of the island , i found there were plenty of goats , though exceedingly shy , and hard to come at ; however , i resolved to try if i could not bring my dog to hunt them down . _ jan. _ 2 . - accordingly , the next day i went out with my dog , and set him upon the goats , but i was mistaken , for they all faced about upon the dog , and he knew his danger too well , for he would not come near them .
_ jan. _ 3 . - i began my fence or wall ; which , being still jealous of my being attacked by somebody , i resolved to make very thick and strong .
_ n.b. _ - this wall being described before , i purposely omit what was said in the journal ; it is sufficient to observe , that i was no less time than from the 2nd of january to the 14th of april working , finishing , and perfecting this wall , though it was no more than about twenty-four yards in length , being a half-circle from one place in the rock to another place , about eight yards from it , the door of the cave being in the centre behind it .
all this time i worked very hard , the rains hindering me many days , nay , sometimes weeks together ; but i thought i should never be perfectly secure till this wall was finished ; and it is scarce credible what inexpressible labour everything was done with , especially the bringing piles out of the woods and driving them into the ground ; for i made them much bigger than i needed to have done .
when this wall was finished , and the outside double fenced , with a turf wall raised up close to it , i perceived myself that if any people were to come on shore there , they would not perceive anything like a habitation ; and it was very well i did so , as may be observed hereafter , upon a very remarkable occasion .
during this time i made my rounds in the woods for game every day when the rain permitted me , and made frequent discoveries in these walks of something or other to my advantage ; particularly , i found a kind of wild pigeons , which build , not as wood-pigeons in a tree , but rather as house-pigeons , in the holes of the rocks ; and taking some young ones , i endeavoured to breed them up tame , and did so ; but when they grew older they flew away , which perhaps was at first for want of feeding them , for i had nothing to give them ; however , i frequently found their nests , and got their young ones , which were very good meat .
and now , in the managing my household affairs , i found myself wanting in many things , which i thought at first it was impossible for me to make ; as , indeed , with some of them it was : for instance , i could never make a cask to be hooped .
i had a small runlet or two , as i observed before ; but i could never arrive at the capacity of making one by them , though i spent many weeks about it ; i could neither put in the heads , or join the staves so true to one another as to make them hold water ; so i gave that also over .
in the next place , i was at a great loss for candles ; so that as soon as ever it was dark , which was generally by seven o 'clock , i was obliged to go to bed .
i remembered the lump of beeswax with which i made candles in my african adventure ; but i had none of that now ; the only remedy i had was , that when i had killed a goat i saved the tallow , and with a little dish made of clay , which i baked in the sun , to which i added a wick of some oakum , i made me a lamp ; and this gave me light , though not a clear , steady light , like a candle .
in the middle of all my labours it happened that , rummaging my things , i found a little bag which , as i hinted before , had been filled with corn for the feeding of poultry - not for this voyage , but before , as i suppose , when the ship came from lisbon . the little remainder of corn that had been in the bag was all devoured by the rats , and i saw nothing in the bag but husks and dust ; and being willing to have the bag for some other use ( i think it was to put powder in , when i divided it for fear of the lightning , or some such use ) , i shook the husks of corn out of it on one side of my fortification , under the rock .
it was a little before the great rains just now mentioned that i threw this stuff away , taking no notice , and not so much as remembering that i had thrown anything there , when , about a month after , or thereabouts , i saw some few stalks of something green shooting out of the ground , which i fancied might be some plant i had not seen ; but i was surprised , and perfectly astonished , when , after a little longer time , i saw about ten or twelve ears come out , which were perfect green barley , of the same kind as our european - nay , as our english barley .
it is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion of my thoughts on this occasion .
i had hitherto acted upon no religious foundation at all ; indeed , i had very few notions of religion in my head , nor had entertained any sense of anything that had befallen me otherwise than as chance , or , as we lightly say , what pleases god , without so much as inquiring into the end of providence in these things , or his order in governing events for the world .
but after i saw barley grow there , in a climate which i knew was not proper for corn , and especially that i knew not how it came there , it startled me strangely , and i began to suggest that god had miraculously caused his grain to grow without any help of seed sown , and that it was so directed purely for my sustenance on that wild , miserable place .
this touched my heart a little , and brought tears out of my eyes , and i began to bless myself that such a prodigy of nature should happen upon my account ; and this was the more strange to me , because i saw near it still , all along by the side of the rock , some other straggling stalks , which proved to be stalks of rice , and which i knew , because i had seen it grow in africa when i was ashore there .
i not only thought these the pure productions of providence for my support , but not doubting that there was more in the place , i went all over that part of the island , where i had been before , peering in every corner , and under every rock , to see for more of it , but i could not find any .
at last it occurred to my thoughts that i shook a bag of chickens ' meat out in that place ; and then the wonder began to cease ; and i must confess my religious thankfulness to god 's providence began to abate , too , upon the discovering that all this was nothing but what was common ; though i ought to have been as thankful for so strange and unforeseen a providence as if it had been miraculous ; for it was really the work of providence to me , that should order or appoint that ten or twelve grains of corn should remain unspoiled , when the rats had destroyed all the rest , as if it had been dropped from heaven ; as also , that i should throw it out in that particular place , where , it being in the shade of a high rock , it sprang up immediately ; whereas , if i had thrown it anywhere else at that time , it had been burnt up and destroyed .
i carefully saved the ears of this corn , you may be sure , in their season , which was about the end of june ; and , laying up every corn , i resolved to sow them all again , hoping in time to have some quantity sufficient to supply me with bread .
but it was not till the fourth year that i could allow myself the least grain of this corn to eat , and even then but sparingly , as i shall say afterwards , in its order ; for i lost all that i sowed the first season by not observing the proper time ; for i sowed it just before the dry season , so that it never came up at all , at least not as it would have done ; of which in its place .
besides this barley , there were , as above , twenty or thirty stalks of rice , which i preserved with the same care and for the same use , or to the same purpose - to make me bread , or rather food ; for i found ways to cook it without baking , though i did that also after some time .
but to return to my journal .
i worked excessive hard these three or four months to get my wall done ; and the 14th of april i closed it up , contriving to go into it , not by a door but over the wall , by a ladder , that there might be no sign on the outside of my habitation .
_ april _ 16 . - i finished the ladder ; so i went up the ladder to the top , and then pulled it up after me , and let it down in the inside .
this was a complete enclosure to me ; for within i had room enough , and nothing could come at me from without , unless it could first mount my wall .
the very next day after this wall was finished i had almost had all my labour overthrown at once , and myself killed .
the case was thus : as i was busy in the inside , behind my tent , just at the entrance into my cave , i was terribly frighted with a most dreadful , surprising thing indeed ; for all on a sudden i found the earth come crumbling down from the roof of my cave , and from the edge of the hill over my head , and two of the posts i had set up in the cave cracked in a frightful manner .
i was heartily scared ; but thought nothing of what was really the cause , only thinking that the top of my cave was fallen in , as some of it had done before : and for fear i should be buried in it i ran forward to my ladder , and not thinking myself safe there neither , i got over my wall for fear of the pieces of the hill , which i expected might roll down upon me .
i had no sooner stepped do ground , than i plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake , for the ground i stood on shook three times at about eight minutes ' distance , with three such shocks as would have overturned the strongest building that could be supposed to have stood on the earth ; and a great piece of the top of a rock which stood about half a mile from me next the sea fell down with such a terrible noise as i never heard in all my life .
i perceived also the very sea was put into violent motion by it ; and i believe the shocks were stronger under the water than on the island .
i was so much amazed with the thing itself , having never felt the like , nor discoursed with any one that had , that i was like one dead or stupefied ; and the motion of the earth made my stomach sick , like one that was tossed at sea ; but the noise of the falling of the rock awakened me , as it were , and rousing me from the stupefied condition i was in , filled me with horror ; and i thought of nothing then but the hill falling upon my tent and all my household goods , and burying all at once ; and this sunk my very soul within me a second time .
after the third shock was over , and i felt no more for some time , i began to take courage ; and yet i had not heart enough to go over my wall again , for fear of being buried alive , but sat still upon the ground greatly cast down and disconsolate , not knowing what to do .
all this while i had not the least serious religious thought ; nothing but the common " lord have mercy upon me ! " and when it was over that went away too .
while i sat thus , i found the air overcast and grow cloudy , as if it would rain . soon after that the wind arose by little and little , so that in less than half-an-hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane ; the sea was all on a sudden covered over with foam and froth ; the shore was covered with the breach of the water , the trees were torn up by the roots , and a terrible storm it was .
this held about three hours , and then began to abate ; and in two hours more it was quite calm , and began to rain very hard .
all this while i sat upon the ground very much terrified and dejected ; when on a sudden it came into my thoughts , that these winds and rain being the consequences of the earthquake , the earthquake itself was spent and over , and i might venture into my cave again . with this thought my spirits began to revive ; and the rain also helping to persuade me , i went in and sat down in my tent .
but the rain was so violent that my tent was ready to be beaten down with it ; and i was forced to go into my cave , though very much afraid and uneasy , for fear it should fall on my head .
this violent rain forced me to a new work - viz. to cut a hole through my new fortification , like a sink , to let the water go out , which would else have flooded my cave . after i had been in my cave for some time , and found still no more shocks of the earthquake follow , i began to be more composed .
and now , to support my spirits , which indeed wanted it very much , i went to my little store , and took a small sup of rum ; which , however , i did then and always very sparingly , knowing i could have no more when that was gone .
it continued raining all that night and great part of the next day , so that i could not stir abroad ; but my mind being more composed , i began to think of what i had best do ; concluding that if the island was subject to these earthquakes , there would be no living for me in a cave , but i must consider of building a little hut in an open place which i might surround with a wall , as i had done here , and so make myself secure from wild beasts or men ; for i concluded , if i stayed where i was , i should certainly one time or other be buried alive .
with these thoughts , i resolved to remove my tent from the place where it stood , which was just under the hanging precipice of the hill ; and which , if it should be shaken again , would certainly fall upon my tent ; and i spent the two next days , being the 19th and 20th of april , in contriving where and how to remove my habitation .
the fear of being swallowed up alive made me that i never slept in quiet ; and yet the apprehension of lying abroad without any fence was almost equal to it ; but still , when i looked about , and saw how everything was put in order , how pleasantly concealed i was , and how safe from danger , it made me very loath to remove .
in the meantime , it occurred to me that it would require a vast deal of time for me to do this , and that i must be contented to venture where i was , till i had formed a camp for myself , and had secured it so as to remove to it . so with this resolution i composed myself for a time , and resolved that i would go to work with all speed to build me a wall with piles and cables , & c . , in a circle , as before , and set my tent up in it when it was finished ; but that i would venture to stay where i was till it was finished , and fit to remove .
this was the 21st .
_ april _ 22 . - the next morning i begin to consider of means to put this resolve into execution ; but i was at a great loss about my tools .
i had three large axes , and abundance of hatchets ( for we carried the hatchets for traffic with the indians ) ; but with much chopping and cutting knotty hard wood , they were all full of notches , and dull ; and though i had a grindstone , i could not turn it and grind my tools too .
this cost me as much thought as a statesman would have bestowed upon a grand point of politics , or a judge upon the life and death of a man .
at length i contrived a wheel with a string , to turn it with my foot , that i might have both my hands at liberty .
_ note _ . - i had never seen any such thing in england , or at least , not to take notice how it was done , though since i have observed , it is very common there ; besides that , my grindstone was very large and heavy . this machine cost me a full week 's work to bring it to perfection .
_ april _ 28 , 29 . - these two whole days i took up in grinding my tools , my machine for turning my grindstone performing very well .
_ april _ 30 . - having perceived my bread had been low a great while , now i took a survey of it , and reduced myself to one biscuit cake a day , which made my heart very heavy .
_ may _ 1 . - in the morning , looking towards the sea side , the tide being low , i saw something lie on the shore bigger than ordinary , and it looked like a cask ; when i came to it , i found a small barrel , and two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship , which were driven on shore by the late hurricane ; and looking towards the wreck itself , i thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to do .
i examined the barrel which was driven on shore , and soon found it was a barrel of gunpowder ; but it had taken water , and the powder was caked as hard as a stone ; however , i rolled it farther on shore for the present , and went on upon the sands , as near as i could to the wreck of the ship , to look for more .
when i came down to the ship i found it strangely removed .
the forecastle , which lay before buried in sand , was heaved up at least six feet , and the stern , which was broke in pieces and parted from the rest by the force of the sea , soon after i had left rummaging her , was tossed as it were up , and cast on one side ; and the sand was thrown so high on that side next her stern , that whereas there was a great place of water before , so that i could not come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without swimming i could now walk quite up to her when the tide was out .
i was surprised with this at first , but soon concluded it must be done by the earthquake ; and as by this violence the ship was more broke open than formerly , so many things came daily on shore , which the sea had loosened , and which the winds and water rolled by degrees to the land .
this wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of removing my habitation , and i busied myself mightily , that day especially , in searching whether i could make any way into the ship ; but i found nothing was to be expected of that kind , for all the inside of the ship was choked up with sand .
however , as i had learned not to despair of anything , i resolved to pull everything to pieces that i could of the ship , concluding that everything i could get from her would be of some use or other to me .
_ may _ 3 . - i began with my saw , and cut a piece of a beam through , which i thought held some of the upper part or quarter-deck together , and when i had cut it through , i cleared away the sand as well as i could from the side which lay highest ; but the tide coming in , i was obliged to give over for that time .
_ may _ 4 . - i went a-fishing , but caught not one fish that i durst eat of , till i was weary of my sport ; when , just going to leave off , i caught a young dolphin .
i had made me a long line of some rope-yarn , but i had no hooks ; yet i frequently caught fish enough , as much as i cared to eat ; all which i dried in the sun , and ate them dry .
_ may _ 5 . - worked on the wreck ; cut another beam asunder , and brought three great fir planks off from the decks , which i tied together , and made to float on shore when the tide of flood came on .
_ may _ 6 . - worked on the wreck ; got several iron bolts out of her and other pieces of ironwork .
worked very hard , and came home very much tired , and had thoughts of giving it over .
_ may _ 7 . - went to the wreck again , not with an intent to work , but found the weight of the wreck had broke itself down , the beams being cut ; that several pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose , and the inside of the hold lay so open that i could see into it ; but it was almost full of water and sand .
_ may _ 8 . - went to the wreck , and carried an iron crow to wrench up the deck , which lay now quite clear of the water or sand . i wrenched open two planks , and brought them on shore also with the tide .
i left the iron crow in the wreck for next day .
_ may _ 9 . - went to the wreck , and with the crow made way into the body of the wreck , and felt several casks , and loosened them with the crow , but could not break them up .
i felt also a roll of english lead , and could stir it , but it was too heavy to remove .
_ may _ 10-14 . - went every day to the wreck ; and got a great many pieces of timber , and boards , or plank , and two or three hundredweight of iron .
_ may _ 15 . - i carried two hatchets , to try if i could not cut a piece off the roll of lead by placing the edge of one hatchet and driving it with the other ; but as it lay about a foot and a half in the water , i could not make any blow to drive the hatchet .
_ may _ 16 . - it had blown hard in the night , and the wreck appeared more broken by the force of the water ; but i stayed so long in the woods , to get pigeons for food , that the tide prevented my going to the wreck that day .
_ may _ 17 . - i saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore , at a great distance , near two miles off me , but resolved to see what they were , and found it was a piece of the head , but too heavy for me to bring away .
_ may _ 24 . - every day , to this day , i worked on the wreck ; and with hard labour i loosened some things so much with the crow , that the first flowing tide several casks floated out , and two of the seamen 's chests ; but the wind blowing from the shore , nothing came to land that day but pieces of timber , and a hogshead , which had some brazil pork in it ; but the salt water and the sand had spoiled it .
i continued this work every day to the 15th of june , except the time necessary to get food , which i always appointed , during this part of my employment , to be when the tide was up , that i might be ready when it was ebbed out ; and by this time i had got timber and plank and ironwork enough to have built a good boat , if i had known how ; and also i got , at several times and in several pieces , near one hundredweight of the sheet lead .
_ june _ 16 . - going down to the seaside , i found a large tortoise or turtle .
this was the first i had seen , which , it seems , was only my misfortune , not any defect of the place , or scarcity ; for had i happened to be on the other side of the island , i might have had hundreds of them every day , as i found afterwards ; but perhaps had paid dear enough for them .
_ june _ 17 . - i spent in cooking the turtle . i found in her three-score eggs ; and her flesh was to me , at that time , the most savoury and pleasant that ever i tasted in my life , having had no flesh , but of goats and fowls , since i landed in this horrid place .
_ june _ 18 . - rained all day , and i stayed within .
i thought at this time the rain felt cold , and i was something chilly ; which i knew was not usual in that latitude .
_ june _ 19 . - very ill , and shivering , as if the weather had been cold .
_ june _ 20 . - no rest all night ; violent pains in my head , and feverish .
_ june _ 21 . - very ill ; frighted almost to death with the apprehensions of my sad condition - to be sick , and no help .
prayed to god , for the first time since the storm off hull , but scarce knew what i said , or why , my thoughts being all confused .
_ june _ 22 . - a little better ; but under dreadful apprehensions of sickness .
_ june _ 23 . - very bad again ; cold and shivering , and then a violent headache .
_ june _ 24 . - much better .
_ june _ 25 . - an ague very violent ; the fit held me seven hours ; cold fit and hot , with faint sweats after it .
_ june _ 26 . - better ; and having no victuals to eat , took my gun , but found myself very weak .
however , i killed a she-goat , and with much difficulty got it home , and broiled some of it , and ate , i would fain have stewed it , and made some broth , but had no pot .
_ june _ 27 . - the ague again so violent that i lay a-bed all day , and neither ate nor drank .
i was ready to perish for thirst ; but so weak , i had not strength to stand up , or to get myself any water to drink .
prayed to god again , but was light-headed ; and when i was not , i was so ignorant that i knew not what to say ; only i lay and cried , " lord , look upon me !
lord , pity me !
lord , have mercy upon me ! "
i suppose i did nothing else for two or three hours ; till , the fit wearing off , i fell asleep , and did not wake till far in the night .
when i awoke , i found myself much refreshed , but weak , and exceeding thirsty .
however , as i had no water in my habitation , i was forced to lie till morning , and went to sleep again .
in this second sleep i had this terrible dream : i thought that i was sitting on the ground , on the outside of my wall , where i sat when the storm blew after the earthquake , and that i saw a man descend from a great black cloud , in a bright flame of fire , and light upon the ground .
he was all over as bright as a flame , so that i could but just bear to look towards him ; his countenance was most inexpressibly dreadful , impossible for words to describe .
when he stepped upon the ground with his feet , i thought the earth trembled , just as it had done before in the earthquake , and all the air looked , to my apprehension , as if it had been filled with flashes of fire .
he was no sooner landed upon the earth , but he moved forward towards me , with a long spear or weapon in his hand , to kill me ; and when he came to a rising ground , at some distance , he spoke to me - or i heard a voice so terrible that it is impossible to express the terror of it . all that i can say i understood was this : " seeing all these things have not brought thee to repentance , now thou shalt die ; " at which words , i thought he lifted up the spear that was in his hand to kill me .
no one that shall ever read this account will expect that i should be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this terrible vision . i mean , that even while it was a dream , i even dreamed of those horrors . nor is it any more possible to describe the impression that remained upon my mind when i awaked , and found it was but a dream .
i had , alas ! no divine knowledge . what i had received by the good instruction of my father was then worn out by an uninterrupted series , for eight years , of seafaring wickedness , and a constant conversation with none but such as were , like myself , wicked and profane to the last degree .
i do not remember that i had , in all that time , one thought that so much as tended either to looking upwards towards god , or inwards towards a reflection upon my own ways ; but a certain stupidity of soul , without desire of good , or conscience of evil , had entirely overwhelmed me ; and i was all that the most hardened , unthinking , wicked creature among our common sailors can be supposed to be ; not having the least sense , either of the fear of god in danger , or of thankfulness to god in deliverance .
in the relating what is already past of my story , this will be the more easily believed when i shall add , that through all the variety of miseries that had to this day befallen me , i never had so much as one thought of it being the hand of god , or that it was a just punishment for my sin - my rebellious behaviour against my father - or my present sins , which were great - or so much as a punishment for the general course of my wicked life .
when i was on the desperate expedition on the desert shores of africa , i never had so much as one thought of what would become of me , or one wish to god to direct me whither i should go , or to keep me from the danger which apparently surrounded me , as well from voracious creatures as cruel savages .
but i was merely thoughtless of a god or a providence , acted like a mere brute , from the principles of nature , and by the dictates of common sense only , and , indeed , hardly that .
when i was delivered and taken up at sea by the portugal captain , well used , and dealt justly and honourably with , as well as charitably , i had not the least thankfulness in my thoughts .
when , again , i was shipwrecked , ruined , and in danger of drowning on this island , i was as far from remorse , or looking on it as a judgment . i only said to myself often , that i was an unfortunate dog , and born to be always miserable .
it is true , when i got on shore first here , and found all my ship 's crew drowned and myself spared , i was surprised with a kind of ecstasy , and some transports of soul , which , had the grace of god assisted , might have come up to true thankfulness ; but it ended where it began , in a mere common flight of joy , or , as i may say , being glad i was alive , without the least reflection upon the distinguished goodness of the hand which had preserved me , and had singled me out to be preserved when all the rest were destroyed , or an inquiry why providence had been thus merciful unto me .
even just the same common sort of joy which seamen generally have , after they are got safe ashore from a shipwreck , which they drown all in the next bowl of punch , and forget almost as soon as it is over ; and all the rest of my life was like it .
even when i was afterwards , on due consideration , made sensible of my condition , how i was cast on this dreadful place , out of the reach of human kind , out of all hope of relief , or prospect of redemption , as soon as i saw but a prospect of living and that i should not starve and perish for hunger , all the sense of my affliction wore off ; and i began to be very easy , applied myself to the works proper for my preservation and supply , and was far enough from being afflicted at my condition , as a judgment from heaven , or as the hand of god against me : these were thoughts which very seldom entered my head .
the growing up of the corn , as is hinted in my journal , had at first some little influence upon me , and began to affect me with seriousness , as long as i thought it had something miraculous in it ; but as soon as ever that part of the thought was removed , all the impression that was raised from it wore off also , as i have noted already .
even the earthquake , though nothing could be more terrible in its nature , or more immediately directing to the invisible power which alone directs such things , yet no sooner was the first fright over , but the impression it had made went off also . i had no more sense of god or his judgments - much less of the present affliction of my circumstances being from his hand - than if i had been in the most prosperous condition of life .
but now , when i began to be sick , and a leisurely view of the miseries of death came to place itself before me ; when my spirits began to sink under the burden of a strong distemper , and nature was exhausted with the violence of the fever ; conscience , that had slept so long , began to awake , and i began to reproach myself with my past life , in which i had so evidently , by uncommon wickedness , provoked the justice of god to lay me under uncommon strokes , and to deal with me in so vindictive a manner .
these reflections oppressed me for the second or third day of my distemper ; and in the violence , as well of the fever as of the dreadful reproaches of my conscience , extorted some words from me like praying to god , though i cannot say they were either a prayer attended with desires or with hopes : it was rather the voice of mere fright and distress .
my thoughts were confused , the convictions great upon my mind , and the horror of dying in such a miserable condition raised vapours into my head with the mere apprehensions ; and in these hurries of my soul i knew not what my tongue might express .
but it was rather exclamation , such as , " lord , what a miserable creature am i !
if i should be sick , i shall certainly die for want of help ; and what will become of me ! " then the tears burst out of my eyes , and i could say no more for a good while .
in this interval the good advice of my father came to my mind , and presently his prediction , which i mentioned at the beginning of this story - viz. that if i did take this foolish step , god would not bless me , and i would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his counsel when there might be none to assist in my recovery . " now , " said i , aloud , " my dear father 's words are come to pass ; god 's justice has overtaken me , and i have none to help or hear me .
i rejected the voice of providence , which had mercifully put me in a posture or station of life wherein i might have been happy and easy ; but i would neither see it myself nor learn to know the blessing of it from my parents .
i left them to mourn over my folly , and now i am left to mourn under the consequences of it .
i abused their help and assistance , who would have lifted me in the world , and would have made everything easy to me ; and now i have difficulties to struggle with , too great for even nature itself to support , and no assistance , no help , no comfort , no advice . " then i cried out , " lord , be my help , for i am in great distress . "
this was the first prayer , if i may call it so , that i had made for many years .
but to return to my journal .
_ june _ 28 . - having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep i had had , and the fit being entirely off , i got up ; and though the fright and terror of my dream was very great , yet i considered that the fit of the ague would return again the next day , and now was my time to get something to refresh and support myself when i should be ill ; and the first thing i did , i filled a large square case-bottle with water , and set it upon my table , in reach of my bed ; and to take off the chill or aguish disposition of the water , i put about a quarter of a pint of rum into it , and mixed them together .
then i got me a piece of the goat 's flesh and broiled it on the coals , but could eat very little . i walked about , but was very weak , and withal very sad and heavy-hearted under a sense of my miserable condition , dreading , the return of my distemper the next day .
at night i made my supper of three of the turtle 's eggs , which i roasted in the ashes , and ate , as we call it , in the shell , and this was the first bit of meat i had ever asked god 's blessing to , that i could remember , in my whole life .
after i had eaten i tried to walk , but found myself so weak that i could hardly carry a gun , for i never went out without that ; so i went but a little way , and sat down upon the ground , looking out upon the sea , which was just before me , and very calm and smooth . as i sat here some such thoughts as these occurred to me : what is this earth and sea , of which i have seen so much ?
whence is it produced ? and what am i , and all the other creatures wild and tame , human and brutal ?
whence are we ? sure we are all made by some secret power , who formed the earth and sea , the air and sky .
and who is that ? then it followed most naturally , it is god that has made all .
well , but then it came on strangely , if god has made all these things , he guides and governs them all , and all things that concern them ; for the power that could make all things must certainly have power to guide and direct them .
if so , nothing can happen in the great circuit of his works , either without his knowledge or appointment .
and if nothing happens without his knowledge , he knows that i am here , and am in this dreadful condition ; and if nothing happens without his appointment , he has appointed all this to befall me .
nothing occurred to my thought to contradict any of these conclusions , and therefore it rested upon me with the greater force , that it must needs be that god had appointed all this to befall me ; that i was brought into this miserable circumstance by his direction , he having the sole power , not of me only , but of everything that happened in the world . immediately it followed : why has god done this to me ?
what have i done to be thus used ?
my conscience presently checked me in that inquiry , as if i had blasphemed , and methought it spoke to me like a voice : " wretch ! dost _ thou _ ask what thou hast done ?
look back upon a dreadful misspent life , and ask thyself what thou hast _ not _ done ?
ask , why is it that thou wert not long ago destroyed ? why wert thou not drowned in yarmouth roads ; killed in the fight when the ship was taken by the sallee man-of-war ; devoured by the wild beasts on the coast of africa ; or drowned _ here _ , when all the crew perished but thyself ?
dost _ thou _ ask , what have i done ? "
i was struck dumb with these reflections , as one astonished , and had not a word to say - no , not to answer to myself , but rose up pensive and sad , walked back to my retreat , and went up over my wall , as if i had been going to bed ; but my thoughts were sadly disturbed , and i had no inclination to sleep ; so i sat down in my chair , and lighted my lamp , for it began to be dark .
now , as the apprehension of the return of my distemper terrified me very much , it occurred to my thought that the brazilians take no physic but their tobacco for almost all distempers , and i had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests , which was quite cured , and some also that was green , and not quite cured .
i went , directed by heaven no doubt ; for in this chest i found a cure both for soul and body .
i opened the chest , and found what i looked for , the tobacco ; and as the few books i had saved lay there too , i took out one of the bibles which i mentioned before , and which to this time i had not found leisure or inclination to look into .
i say , i took it out , and brought both that and the tobacco with me to the table .
what use to make of the tobacco i knew not , in my distemper , or whether it was good for it or no : but i tried several experiments with it , as if i was resolved it should hit one way or other .
i first took a piece of leaf , and chewed it in my mouth , which , indeed , at first almost stupefied my brain , the tobacco being green and strong , and that i had not been much used to .
then i took some and steeped it an hour or two in some rum , and resolved to take a dose of it when i lay down ; and lastly , i burnt some upon a pan of coals , and held my nose close over the smoke of it as long as i could bear it , as well for the heat as almost for suffocation .
in the interval of this operation i took up the bible and began to read ; but my head was too much disturbed with the tobacco to bear reading , at least at that time ; only , having opened the book casually , the first words that occurred to me were these , " call on me in the day of trouble , and i will deliver thee , and thou shalt glorify me . "
these words were very apt to my case , and made some impression upon my thoughts at the time of reading them , though not so much as they did afterwards ; for , as for being _ delivered _ , the word had no sound , as i may say , to me ; the thing was so remote , so impossible in my apprehension of things , that i began to say , as the children of israel did when they were promised flesh to eat , " can god spread a table in the wilderness ? " so i began to say , " can god himself deliver me from this place ? " and as it was not for many years that any hopes appeared , this prevailed very often upon my thoughts ; but , however , the words made a great impression upon me , and i mused upon them very often .
it grew now late , and the tobacco had , as i said , dozed my head so much that i inclined to sleep ; so i left my lamp burning in the cave , lest i should want anything in the night , and went to bed . but before i lay down , i did what i never had done in all my life - i kneeled down , and prayed to god to fulfil the promise to me , that if i called upon him in the day of trouble , he would deliver me .
after my broken and imperfect prayer was over , i drank the rum in which i had steeped the tobacco , which was so strong and rank of the tobacco that i could scarcely get it down ; immediately upon this i went to bed .
i found presently it flew up into my head violently ; but i fell into a sound sleep , and waked no more till , by the sun , it must necessarily be near three o 'clock in the afternoon the next day - nay , to this hour i am partly of opinion that i slept all the next day and night , and till almost three the day after ; for otherwise i know not how i should lose a day out of my reckoning in the days of the week , as it appeared some years after i had done ; for if i had lost it by crossing and recrossing the line , i should have lost more than one day ; but certainly i lost a day in my account , and never knew which way .
be that , however , one way or the other , when i awaked i found myself exceedingly refreshed , and my spirits lively and cheerful ; when i got up i was stronger than i was the day before , and my stomach better , for i was hungry ; and , in short , i had no fit the next day , but continued much altered for the better .
this was the 29th .
the 30th was my well day , of course , and i went abroad with my gun , but did not care to travel too far .
i killed a sea-fowl or two , something like a brandgoose , and brought them home , but was not very forward to eat them ; so i ate some more of the turtle 's eggs , which were very good .
this evening i renewed the medicine , which i had supposed did me good the day before - the tobacco steeped in rum ; only i did not take so much as before , nor did i chew any of the leaf , or hold my head over the smoke ; however , i was not so well the next day , which was the first of july , as i hoped i should have been ; for i had a little spice of the cold fit , but it was not much .
_ july _ 2 . - i renewed the medicine all the three ways ; and dosed myself with it as at first , and doubled the quantity which i drank .
_ july _ 3 . - i missed the fit for good and all , though i did not recover my full strength for some weeks after .
while i was thus gathering strength , my thoughts ran exceedingly upon this scripture , " i will deliver thee " ; and the impossibility of my deliverance lay much upon my mind , in bar of my ever expecting it ; but as i was discouraging myself with such thoughts , it occurred to my mind that i pored so much upon my deliverance from the main affliction , that i disregarded the deliverance i had received , and i was as it were made to ask myself such questions as these - viz . have i not been delivered , and wonderfully too , from sickness - from the most distressed condition that could be , and that was so frightful to me ? and what notice had i taken of it ?
had i done my part ?
god had delivered me , but i had not glorified him - that is to say , i had not owned and been thankful for that as a deliverance ; and how could i expect greater deliverance ?
this touched my heart very much ; and immediately i knelt down and gave god thanks aloud for my recovery from my sickness .
_ july _ 4 . - in the morning i took the bible ; and beginning at the new testament , i began seriously to read it , and imposed upon myself to read a while every morning and every night ; not tying myself to the number of chapters , but long as my thoughts should engage me .
it was not long after i set seriously to this work till i found my heart more deeply and sincerely affected with the wickedness of my past life .
the impression of my dream revived ; and the words , " all these things have not brought thee to repentance , " ran seriously through my thoughts .
i was earnestly begging of god to give me repentance , when it happened providentially , the very day , that , reading the scripture , i came to these words : " he is exalted a prince and a saviour , to give repentance and to give remission . " i threw down the book ; and with my heart as well as my hands lifted up to heaven , in a kind of ecstasy of joy , i cried out aloud , " jesus , thou son of david !
this was the first time i could say , in the true sense of the words , that i prayed in all my life ; for now i prayed with a sense of my condition , and a true scripture view of hope , founded on the encouragement of the word of god ; and from this time , i may say , i began to hope that god would hear me .
now i began to construe the words mentioned above , " call on me , and i will deliver thee , " in a different sense from what i had ever done before ; for then i had no notion of anything being called _ deliverance _ , but my being delivered from the captivity i was in ; for though i was indeed at large in the place , yet the island was certainly a prison to me , and that in the worse sense in the world .
but now i learned to take it in another sense : now i looked back upon my past life with such horror , and my sins appeared so dreadful , that my soul sought nothing of god but deliverance from the load of guilt that bore down all my comfort .
as for my solitary life , it was nothing . i did not so much as pray to be delivered from it or think of it ; it was all of no consideration in comparison to this .
and i add this part here , to hint to whoever shall read it , that whenever they come to a true sense of things , they will find deliverance from sin a much greater blessing than deliverance from affliction .
but , leaving this part , i return to my journal .
my condition began now to be , though not less miserable as to my way of living , yet much easier to my mind : and my thoughts being directed , by a constant reading the scripture and praying to god , to things of a higher nature , i had a great deal of comfort within , which till now i knew nothing of ; also , my health and strength returned , i bestirred myself to furnish myself with everything that i wanted , and make my way of living as regular as i could .
from the 4th of july to the 14th i was chiefly employed in walking about with my gun in my hand , a little and a little at a time , as a man that was gathering up his strength after a fit of sickness ; for it is hardly to be imagined how low i was , and to what weakness i was reduced .
the application which i made use of was perfectly new , and perhaps which had never cured an ague before ; neither can i recommend it to any to practise , by this experiment : and though it did carry off the fit , yet it rather contributed to weakening me ; for i had frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs for some time .
i learned from it also this , in particular , that being abroad in the rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my health that could be , especially in those rains which came attended with storms and hurricanes of wind ; for as the rain which came in the dry season was almost always accompanied with such storms , so i found that rain was much more dangerous than the rain which fell in september and october .
i had now been in this unhappy island above ten months . all possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely taken from me ; and i firmly believe that no human shape had ever set foot upon that place .
having now secured my habitation , as i thought , fully to my mind , i had a great desire to make a more perfect discovery of the island , and to see what other productions i might find , which i yet knew nothing of .
it was on the 15th of july that i began to take a more particular survey of the island itself .
i went up the creek first , where , as i hinted , i brought my rafts on shore .
i found after i came about two miles up , that the tide did not flow any higher , and that it was no more than a little brook of running water , very fresh and good ; but this being the dry season , there was hardly any water in some parts of it - at least not enough to run in any stream , so as it could be perceived .
on the banks of this brook i found many pleasant savannahs or meadows , plain , smooth , and covered with grass ; and on the rising parts of them , next to the higher grounds , where the water , as might be supposed , never overflowed , i found a great deal of tobacco , green , and growing to a great and very strong stalk .
there were divers other plants , which i had no notion of or understanding about , that might , perhaps , have virtues of their own , which i could not find out .
i searched for the cassava root , which the indians , in all that climate , make their bread of , but i could find none .
i saw large plants of aloes , but did not understand them .
i saw several sugar-canes , but wild , and , for want of cultivation , imperfect .
i contented myself with these discoveries for this time , and came back , musing with myself what course i might take to know the virtue and goodness of any of the fruits or plants which i should discover , but could bring it to no conclusion ; for , in short , i had made so little observation while i was in the brazils , that i knew little of the plants in the field ; at least , very little that might serve to any purpose now in my distress .
the next day , the sixteenth , i went up the same way again ; and after going something further than i had gone the day before , i found the brook and the savannahs cease , and the country become more woody than before .
in this part i found different fruits , and particularly i found melons upon the ground , in great abundance , and grapes upon the trees . the vines had spread , indeed , over the trees , and the clusters of grapes were just now in their prime , very ripe and rich .
this was a surprising discovery , and i was exceeding glad of them ; but i was warned by my experience to eat sparingly of them ; remembering that when i was ashore in barbary , the eating of grapes killed several of our englishmen , who were slaves there , by throwing them into fluxes and fevers .
but i found an excellent use for these grapes ; and that was , to cure or dry them in the sun , and keep them as dried grapes or raisins are kept , which i thought would be , as indeed they were , wholesome and agreeable to eat when no grapes could be had .
i spent all that evening there , and went not back to my habitation ; which , by the way , was the first night , as i might say , i had lain from home .
in the night , i took my first contrivance , and got up in a tree , where i slept well ; and the next morning proceeded upon my discovery ; travelling nearly four miles , as i might judge by the length of the valley , keeping still due north , with a ridge of hills on the south and north side of me .
at the end of this march i came to an opening where the country seemed to descend to the west ; and a little spring of fresh water , which issued out of the side of the hill by me , ran the other way , that is , due east ; and the country appeared so fresh , so green , so flourishing , everything being in a constant verdure or flourish of spring that it looked like a planted garden .
i descended a little on the side of that delicious vale , surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure , though mixed with my other afflicting thoughts , to think that this was all my own ; that i was king and lord of all this country indefensibly , and had a right of possession ; and if i could convey it , i might have it in inheritance as completely as any lord of a manor in england .
i saw here abundance of cocoa trees , orange , and lemon , and citron trees ; but all wild , and very few bearing any fruit , at least not then .
however , the green limes that i gathered were not only pleasant to eat , but very wholesome ; and i mixed their juice afterwards with water , which made it very wholesome , and very cool and refreshing .
i found now i had business enough to gather and carry home ; and i resolved to lay up a store as well of grapes as limes and lemons , to furnish myself for the wet season , which i knew was approaching .
in order to do this , i gathered a great heap of grapes in one place , a lesser heap in another place , and a great parcel of limes and lemons in another place ; and taking a few of each with me , i travelled homewards ; resolving to come again , and bring a bag or sack , or what i could make , to carry the rest home .
accordingly , having spent three days in this journey , i came home ( so i must now call my tent and my cave ) ; but before i got thither the grapes were spoiled ; the richness of the fruit and the weight of the juice having broken them and bruised them , they were good for little or nothing ; as to the limes , they were good , but i could bring but a few .
the next day , being the nineteenth , i went back , having made me two small bags to bring home my harvest ; but i was surprised , when coming to my heap of grapes , which were so rich and fine when i gathered them , to find them all spread about , trod to pieces , and dragged about , some here , some there , and abundance eaten and devoured .
by this i concluded there were some wild creatures thereabouts , which had done this ; but what they were i knew not .
however , as i found there was no laying them up on heaps , and no carrying them away in a sack , but that one way they would be destroyed , and the other way they would be crushed with their own weight , i took another course ; for i gathered a large quantity of the grapes , and hung upon the out-branches of the trees , that they might cure and dry in the sun ; and as for the limes and lemons , i carried as many back as i could well stand under .
when i came home from this journey , i contemplated with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley , and the pleasantness of the situation ; the security from storms on that side of the water , and the wood : and concluded that i had pitched upon a place to fix my abode which was by far the worst part of the country .
upon the whole , i began to consider of removing my habitation , and looking out for a place equally safe as where now i was situate , if possible , in that pleasant , fruitful part of the island .
this thought ran long in my head , and i was exceeding fond of it for some time , the pleasantness of the place tempting me ; but when i came to a nearer view of it , i considered that i was now by the seaside , where it was at least possible that something might happen to my advantage , and , by the same ill fate that brought me hither might bring some other unhappy wretches to the same place ; and though it was scarce probable that any such thing should ever happen , yet to enclose myself among the hills and woods in the centre of the island was to anticipate my bondage , and to render such an affair not only improbable , but impossible ; and that therefore i ought not by any means to remove .
however , i was so enamoured of this place , that i spent much of my time there for the whole of the remaining part of the month of july ; and though upon second thoughts , i resolved not to remove , yet i built me a little kind of a bower , and surrounded it at a distance with a strong fence , being a double hedge , as high as i could reach , well staked and filled between with brushwood ; and here i lay very secure , sometimes two or three nights together ; always going over it with a ladder ; so that i fancied now i had my country house and my sea-coast house ; and this work took me up to the beginning of august .
i had but newly finished my fence , and began to enjoy my labour , when the rains came on , and made me stick close to my first habitation ; for though i had made me a tent like the other , with a piece of a sail , and spread it very well , yet i had not the shelter of a hill to keep me from storms , nor a cave behind me to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary .
about the beginning of august , as i said , i had finished my bower , and began to enjoy myself .
the 3rd of august , i found the grapes i had hung up perfectly dried , and , indeed , were excellent good raisins of the sun ; so i began to take them down from the trees , and it was very happy that i did so , for the rains which followed would have spoiled them , and i had lost the best part of my winter food ; for i had above two hundred large bunches of them .
no sooner had i taken them all down , and carried the most of them home to my cave , than it began to rain ; and from hence , which was the 14th of august , it rained , more or less , every day till the middle of october ; and sometimes so violently , that i could not stir out of my cave for several days .
in this season i was much surprised with the increase of my family ; i had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats , who ran away from me , or , as i thought , had been dead , and i heard no more tidings of her till , to my astonishment , she came home about the end of august with three kittens .
this was the more strange to me because , though i had killed a wild cat , as i called it , with my gun , yet i thought it was quite a different kind from our european cats ; but the young cats were the same kind of house-breed as the old one ; and both my cats being females , i thought it very strange .
but from these three cats i afterwards came to be so pestered with cats that i was forced to kill them like vermin or wild beasts , and to drive them from my house as much as possible .
from the 14th of august to the 26th , incessant rain , so that i could not stir , and was now very careful not to be much wet .
in this confinement , i began to be straitened for food : but venturing out twice , i one day killed a goat ; and the last day , which was the 26th , found a very large tortoise , which was a treat to me , and my food was regulated thus : i ate a bunch of raisins for my breakfast ; a piece of the goat 's flesh , or of the turtle , for my dinner , broiled - for , to my great misfortune , i had no vessel to boil or stew anything ; and two or three of the turtle 's eggs for my supper .
during this confinement in my cover by the rain , i worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave , and by degrees worked it on towards one side , till i came to the outside of the hill , and made a door or way out , which came beyond my fence or wall ; and so i came in and out this way .
but i was not perfectly easy at lying so open ; for , as i had managed myself before , i was in a perfect enclosure ; whereas now i thought i lay exposed , and open for anything to come in upon me ; and yet i could not perceive that there was any living thing to fear , the biggest creature that i had yet seen upon the island being a goat .
_ sept . _ 30 . - i was now come to the unhappy anniversary of my landing . i cast up the notches on my post , and found i had been on shore three hundred and sixty-five days .
i kept this day as a solemn fast , setting it apart for religious exercise , prostrating myself on the ground with the most serious humiliation , confessing my sins to god , acknowledging his righteous judgments upon me , and praying to him to have mercy on me through jesus christ ; and not having tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours , even till the going down of the sun , i then ate a biscuit-cake and a bunch of grapes , and went to bed , finishing the day as i began it .
i had all this time observed no sabbath day ; for as at first i had no sense of religion upon my mind , i had , after some time , omitted to distinguish the weeks , by making a longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath day , and so did not really know what any of the days were ; but now , having cast up the days as above , i found i had been there a year ; so i divided it into weeks , and set apart every seventh day for a sabbath ; though i found at the end of my account i had lost a day or two in my reckoning .
a little after this , my ink began to fail me , and so i contented myself to use it more sparingly , and to write down only the most remarkable events of my life , without continuing a daily memorandum of other things .
the rainy season and the dry season began now to appear regular to me , and i learned to divide them so as to provide for them accordingly ; but i bought all my experience before i had it , and this i am going to relate was one of the most discouraging experiments that i made .
i have mentioned that i had saved the few ears of barley and rice , which i had so surprisingly found spring up , as i thought , of themselves , and i believe there were about thirty stalks of rice , and about twenty of barley ; and now i thought it a proper time to sow it , after the rains , the sun being in its southern position , going from me .
accordingly , i dug up a piece of ground as well as i could with my wooden spade , and dividing it into two parts , i sowed my grain ; but as i was sowing , it casually occurred to my thoughts that i would not sow it all at first , because i did not know when was the proper time for it , so i sowed about two-thirds of the seed , leaving about a handful of each .
it was a great comfort to me afterwards that i did so , for not one grain of what i sowed this time came to anything : for the dry months following , the earth having had no rain after the seed was sown , it had no moisture to assist its growth , and never came up at all till the wet season had come again , and then it grew as if it had been but newly sown .
finding my first seed did not grow , which i easily imagined was by the drought , i sought for a moister piece of ground to make another trial in , and i dug up a piece of ground near my new bower , and sowed the rest of my seed in february , a little before the vernal equinox ; and this having the rainy months of march and april to water it , sprung up very pleasantly , and yielded a very good crop ; but having part of the seed left only , and not daring to sow all that i had , i had but a small quantity at last , my whole crop not amounting to above half a peck of each kind .
but by this experiment i was made master of my business , and knew exactly when the proper season was to sow , and that i might expect two seed-times and two harvests every year .
while this corn was growing i made a little discovery , which was of use to me afterwards .
as soon as the rains were over , and the weather began to settle , which was about the month of november , i made a visit up the country to my bower , where , though i had not been some months , yet i found all things just as i left them .
the circle or double hedge that i had made was not only firm and entire , but the stakes which i had cut out of some trees that grew thereabouts were all shot out and grown with long branches , as much as a willow-tree usually shoots the first year after lopping its head .
i could not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were cut from .
i was surprised , and yet very well pleased , to see the young trees grow ; and i pruned them , and led them up to grow as much alike as i could ; and it is scarce credible how beautiful a figure they grew into in three years ; so that though the hedge made a circle of about twenty-five yards in diameter , yet the trees , for such i might now call them , soon covered it , and it was a complete shade , sufficient to lodge under all the dry season .
this made me resolve to cut some more stakes , and make me a hedge like this , in a semi-circle round my wall ( i mean that of my first dwelling ) , which i did ; and placing the trees or stakes in a double row , at about eight yards distance from my first fence , they grew presently , and were at first a fine cover to my habitation , and afterwards served for a defence also , as i shall observe in its order .
i found now that the seasons of the year might generally be divided , not into summer and winter , as in europe , but into the rainy seasons and the dry seasons , which were generally thus :
- the half of february , the whole of march , and the half of april - rainy , the sun being then on or near the equinox .
the half of april , the whole of may , june , and july , and the half of august - dry , the sun being then to the north of the line .
the half of august , the whole of september , and the half of october - rainy , the sun being then come back .
the half of october , the whole of november , december , and january , and the half of february - dry , the sun being then to the south of the line .
the rainy seasons sometimes held longer or shorter as the winds happened to blow , but this was the general observation i made .
after i had found by experience the ill consequences of being abroad in the rain , i took care to furnish myself with provisions beforehand , that i might not be obliged to go out , and i sat within doors as much as possible during the wet months .
this time i found much employment , and very suitable also to the time , for i found great occasion for many things which i had no way to furnish myself with but by hard labour and constant application ; particularly i tried many ways to make myself a basket , but all the twigs i could get for the purpose proved so brittle that they would do nothing .
it proved of excellent advantage to me now , that when i was a boy , i used to take great delight in standing at a basket-maker 's , in the town where my father lived , to see them make their wicker-ware ; and being , as boys usually are , very officious to help , and a great observer of the manner in which they worked those things , and sometimes lending a hand , i had by these means full knowledge of the methods of it , and i wanted nothing but the materials , when it came into my mind that the twigs of that tree from whence i cut my stakes that grew might possibly be as tough as the sallows , willows , and osiers in england , and i resolved to try .
accordingly , the next day i went to my country house , as i called it , and cutting some of the smaller twigs , i found them to my purpose as much as i could desire ; whereupon i came the next time prepared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity , which i soon found , for there was great plenty of them .
these i set up to dry within my circle or hedge , and when they were fit for use i carried them to my cave ; and here , during the next season , i employed myself in making , as well as i could , a great many baskets , both to carry earth or to carry or lay up anything , as i had occasion ; and though i did not finish them very handsomely , yet i made them sufficiently serviceable for my purpose ; thus , afterwards , i took care never to be without them ; and as my wicker-ware decayed , i made more , especially strong , deep baskets to place my corn in , instead of sacks , when i should come to have any quantity of it .
having mastered this difficulty , and employed a world of time about it , i bestirred myself to see , if possible , how to supply two wants .
i had no vessels to hold anything that was liquid , except two runlets , which were almost full of rum , and some glass bottles - some of the common size , and others which were case bottles , square , for the holding of water , spirits , & c .
i had not so much as a pot to boil anything , except a great kettle , which i saved out of the ship , and which was too big for such as i desired it - viz. to make broth , and stew a bit of meat by itself .
the second thing i fain would have had was a tobacco-pipe , but it was impossible to me to make one ; however , i found a contrivance for that , too , at last .
i employed myself in planting my second rows of stakes or piles , and in this wicker-working all the summer or dry season , when another business took me up more time than it could be imagined i could spare .
i mentioned before that i had a great mind to see the whole island , and that i had travelled up the brook , and so on to where i built my bower , and where i had an opening quite to the sea , on the other side of the island .
i now resolved to travel quite across to the sea-shore on that side ; so , taking my gun , a hatchet , and my dog , and a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual , with two biscuit-cakes and a great bunch of raisins in my pouch for my store , i began my journey .
when i had passed the vale where my bower stood , as above , i came within view of the sea to the west , and it being a very clear day , i fairly descried land - whether an island or a continent i could not tell ; but it lay very high , extending from the w. to the w.s.w. at a very great distance ; by my guess it could not be less than fifteen or twenty leagues off .
i could not tell what part of the world this might be , otherwise than that i knew it must be part of america , and , as i concluded by all my observations , must be near the spanish dominions , and perhaps was all inhabited by savages , where , if i had landed , i had been in a worse condition than i was now ; and therefore i acquiesced in the dispositions of providence , which i began now to own and to believe ordered everything for the best ; i say i quieted my mind with this , and left off afflicting myself with fruitless wishes of being there .
besides , after some thought upon this affair , i considered that if this land was the spanish coast , i should certainly , one time or other , see some vessel pass or repass one way or other ; but if not , then it was the savage coast between the spanish country and brazils , where are found the worst of savages ; for they are cannibals or men-eaters , and fail not to murder and devour all the human bodies that fall into their hands .
with these considerations , i walked very leisurely forward .
i found that side of the island where i now was much pleasanter than mine - the open or savannah fields sweet , adorned with flowers and grass , and full of very fine woods .
i saw abundance of parrots , and fain i would have caught one , if possible , to have kept it to be tame , and taught it to speak to me .
i did , after some painstaking , catch a young parrot , for i knocked it down with a stick , and having recovered it , i brought it home ; but it was some years before i could make him speak ; however , at last i taught him to call me by name very familiarly .
but the accident that followed , though it be a trifle , will be very diverting in its place .
i was exceedingly diverted with this journey .
i found in the low grounds hares ( as i thought them to be ) and foxes ; but they differed greatly from all the other kinds i had met with , nor could i satisfy myself to eat them , though i killed several .
but i had no need to be venturous , for i had no want of food , and of that which was very good too , especially these three sorts , viz. goats , pigeons , and turtle , or tortoise , which added to my grapes , leadenhall market could not have furnished a table better than i , in proportion to the company ; and though my case was deplorable enough , yet i had great cause for thankfulness that i was not driven to any extremities for food , but had rather plenty , even to dainties .
i never travelled in this journey above two miles outright in a day , or thereabouts ; but i took so many turns and re-turns to see what discoveries i could make , that i came weary enough to the place where i resolved to sit down all night ; and then i either reposed myself in a tree , or surrounded myself with a row of stakes set upright in the ground , either from one tree to another , or so as no wild creature could come at me without waking me .
as soon as i came to the sea-shore , i was surprised to see that i had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island , for here , indeed , the shore was covered with innumerable turtles , whereas on the other side i had found but three in a year and a half .
here was also an infinite number of fowls of many kinds , some which i had seen , and some which i had not seen before , and many of them very good meat , but such as i knew not the names of , except those called penguins .
i could have shot as many as i pleased , but was very sparing of my powder and shot , and therefore had more mind to kill a she-goat if i could , which i could better feed on ; and though there were many goats here , more than on my side the island , yet it was with much more difficulty that i could come near them , the country being flat and even , and they saw me much sooner than when i was on the hills .
i confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than mine ; but yet i had not the least inclination to remove , for as i was fixed in my habitation it became natural to me , and i seemed all the while i was here to be as it were upon a journey , and from home .
'you couldn 't have wanted it much , ' said alice ; ' living at the bottom of the sea . '
'i couldn 't afford to learn it . ' said the mock turtle with a sigh . ' i only took the regular course . '
'what was that ? ' inquired alice .
'reeling and writhing , of course , to begin with , ' the mock turtle replied ; ' and then the different branches of arithmetic-- ambition , distraction , uglification , and derision . '
'i never heard of " uglification , " ' alice ventured to say .
'what is it ? '
the gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise .
'what ! never heard of uglifying ! ' it exclaimed .
'you know what to beautify is , i suppose ? '
'yes , ' said alice doubtfully : ' it means--to--make--anything--prettier . '
'well , then , ' the gryphon went on , ' if you don 't know what to uglify is , you are a simpleton . '
alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it , so she turned to the mock turtle , and said ' what else had you to learn ? '
'well , there was mystery , ' the mock turtle replied , counting off the subjects on his flappers , ' --mystery , ancient and modern , with seaography : then drawling--the drawling-master was an old conger-eel , that used to come once a week : he taught us drawling , stretching , and fainting in coils . '
'what was that like ? ' said alice .
'well , i can 't show it you myself , ' the mock turtle said : ' i 'm too stiff . and the gryphon never learnt it . '
'hadn 't time , ' said the gryphon : ' i went to the classics master , though . he was an old crab , he was . ' ' i never went to him , ' the mock turtle said with a sigh : ' he taught laughing and grief , they used to say . '
'so he did , so he did , ' said the gryphon , sighing in his turn ; and both creatures hid their faces in their paws .
'and how many hours a day did you do lessons ? ' said alice , in a hurry to change the subject .
'ten hours the first day , ' said the mock turtle : ' nine the next , and so on . '
'what a curious plan ! ' exclaimed alice .
'that 's the reason they 're called lessons , ' the gryphon remarked : ' because they lessen from day to day . '
this was quite a new idea to alice , and she thought it over a little before she made her next remark .
'then the eleventh day must have been a holiday ? '
'of course it was , ' said the mock turtle .
'and how did you manage on the twelfth ? ' alice went on eagerly .
'that 's enough about lessons , ' the gryphon interrupted in a very decided tone : ' tell her something about the games now . '
chapter x the lobster quadrille
the mock turtle sighed deeply , and drew the back of one flapper across his eyes .
he looked at alice , and tried to speak , but for a minute or two sobs choked his voice .
'same as if he had a bone in his throat , ' said the gryphon : and it set to work shaking him and punching him in the back .
at last the mock turtle recovered his voice , and , with tears running down his cheeks , he went on again : --
'you may not have lived much under the sea-- ' ( ' i haven 't , ' said alice ) -- ' and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster-- ' ( alice began to say ' i once tasted-- ' but checked herself hastily , and said ' no , never ' )
'--so you can have no idea what a delightful thing a lobster quadrille is ! '
'no , indeed , ' said alice .
'what sort of a dance is it ? '
'why , ' said the gryphon , ' you first form into a line along the sea-shore--'
'two lines ! ' cried the mock turtle . ' seals , turtles , salmon , and so on ; then , when you 've cleared all the jelly-fish out of the way--'
'that generally takes some time , ' interrupted the gryphon .
'--you advance twice--'
'each with a lobster as a partner ! ' cried the gryphon .
'of course , ' the mock turtle said : ' advance twice , set to partners-- ' '--change lobsters , and retire in same order , ' continued the gryphon .
'then , you know , ' the mock turtle went on , ' you throw the--'
'the lobsters ! ' shouted the gryphon , with a bound into the air .
'--as far out to sea as you can--'
'swim after them ! ' screamed the gryphon .
'turn a somersault in the sea ! ' cried the mock turtle , capering wildly about .
'change lobster 's again ! ' yelled the gryphon at the top of its voice .
'back to land again , and that 's all the first figure , ' said the mock turtle , suddenly dropping his voice ; and the two creatures , who had been jumping about like mad things all this time , sat down again very sadly and quietly , and looked at alice .
'it must be a very pretty dance , ' said alice timidly .
'would you like to see a little of it ? ' said the mock turtle .
'very much indeed , ' said alice .
'come , let 's try the first figure ! ' said the mock turtle to the gryphon . ' we can do without lobsters , you know .
which shall sing ? '
'oh , you sing , ' said the gryphon . ' i 've forgotten the words . '
so they began solemnly dancing round and round alice , every now and then treading on her toes when they passed too close , and waving their forepaws to mark the time , while the mock turtle sang this , very slowly and sadly :
-- ' " will you walk a little faster ? " said a whiting to a snail . " there 's a porpoise close behind us , and he 's treading on my tail .
see how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance ! they are waiting on the shingle--will you come and join the dance ?
will you , won 't you , will you , won 't you , will you join the dance ?
will you , won 't you , will you , won 't you , won 't you join the dance ?
" you can really have no notion how delightful it will be when they take us up and throw us , with the lobsters , out to sea ! "
but the snail replied " too far , too far ! " and gave a look askance-- said he thanked the whiting kindly , but he would not join the dance .
would not , could not , would not , could not , would not join the dance . would not , could not , would not , could not , could not join the dance .
'thank you , it 's a very interesting dance to watch , ' said alice , feeling very glad that it was over at last : ' and i do so like that curious song about the whiting ! '
'oh , as to the whiting , ' said the mock turtle , ' they--you 've seen them , of course ? '
'yes , ' said alice , ' i 've often seen them at dinn-- ' she checked herself hastily .
'i don 't know where dinn may be , ' said the mock turtle , ' but if you 've seen them so often , of course you know what they 're like . '
'i believe so , ' alice replied thoughtfully .
'they have their tails in their mouths--and they 're all over crumbs . '
'you 're wrong about the crumbs , ' said the mock turtle : ' crumbs would all wash off in the sea . but they have their tails in their mouths ; and the reason is-- ' here the mock turtle yawned and shut his eyes.-- ' tell her about the reason and all that , ' he said to the gryphon .
'the reason is , ' said the gryphon , ' that they would go with the lobsters to the dance .
so they got thrown out to sea .
so they had to fall a long way .
so they got their tails fast in their mouths .
so they couldn 't get them out again .
that 's all . '
'thank you , ' said alice , ' it 's very interesting . i never knew so much about a whiting before . '
'i can tell you more than that , if you like , ' said the gryphon . ' do you know why it 's called a whiting ? '
'i could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning , ' said alice a little timidly : ' but it 's no use going back to yesterday , because i was a different person then . '
'explain all that , ' said the mock turtle .
'no , no ! the adventures first , ' said the gryphon in an impatient tone : ' explanations take such a dreadful time . '
so alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first saw the white rabbit .
she was a little nervous about it just at first , the two creatures got so close to her , one on each side , and opened their eyes and mouths so very wide , but she gained courage as she went on .
her listeners were perfectly quiet till she got to the part about her repeating ' you are old , father william , ' to the caterpillar , and the words all coming different , and then the mock turtle drew a long breath , and said ' that 's very curious . '
'it 's all about as curious as it can be , ' said the gryphon .
'it all came different ! ' the mock turtle repeated thoughtfully .
'i should like to hear her try and repeat something now .
tell her to begin . '
he looked at the gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of authority over alice .
'stand up and repeat " ' tis the voice of the sluggard , " ' said the gryphon .
'how the creatures order one about , and make one repeat lessons ! ' thought alice ; ' i might as well be at school at once . '
however , she got up , and began to repeat it , but her head was so full of the lobster quadrille , that she hardly knew what she was saying , and the words came very queer indeed : --
" tis the voice of the lobster ; i heard him declare ,
" you have baked me too brown , i must sugar my hair . "
as a duck with its eyelids , so he with his nose trims his belt and his buttons , and turns out his toes . '
'that 's different from what i used to say when i was a child , ' said the gryphon .
'well , i never heard it before , ' said the mock turtle ; ' but it sounds uncommon nonsense . '
alice said nothing ; she had sat down with her face in her hands , wondering if anything would ever happen in a natural way again .
'i should like to have it explained , ' said the mock turtle .
'she can 't explain it , ' said the gryphon hastily .
'go on with the next verse . '
'but about his toes ? ' the mock turtle persisted .
'how could he turn them out with his nose , you know ? '
'it 's the first position in dancing . ' alice said ; but was dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing , and longed to change the subject .
'go on with the next verse , ' the gryphon repeated impatiently : ' it begins " i passed by his garden . " '
alice did not dare to disobey , though she felt sure it would all come wrong , and she went on in a trembling voice : --
'i passed by his garden , and marked , with one eye , how the owl and the panther were sharing a pie--'
'what is the use of repeating all that stuff , ' the mock turtle interrupted , ' if you don 't explain it as you go on ?
it 's by far the most confusing thing i ever heard ! '
'yes , i think you 'd better leave off , ' said the gryphon : and alice was only too glad to do so .
'shall we try another figure of the lobster quadrille ? ' the gryphon went on .
'or would you like the mock turtle to sing you a song ? '
'oh , a song , please , if the mock turtle would be so kind , ' alice replied , so eagerly that the gryphon said , in a rather offended tone , ' hm !
no accounting for tastes !
sing her " turtle soup , " will you , old fellow ? '
the mock turtle sighed deeply , and began , in a voice sometimes choked with sobs , to sing this : --
'beautiful soup , so rich and green , waiting in a hot tureen ! who for such dainties would not stoop ? soup of the evening , beautiful soup ! soup of the evening , beautiful soup ! beau--ootiful soo--oop ! beau--ootiful soo--oop ! soo--oop of the e--e--evening , beautiful , beautiful soup ! ' beautiful soup ! who cares for fish , game , or any other dish ? who would not give all else for two pennyworth only of beautiful soup ? pennyworth only of beautiful soup ? beau--ootiful soo--oop ! beau--ootiful soo--oop ! soo--oop of the e--e--evening , beautiful , beauti--ful soup ! ' ' chorus again ! ' cried the gryphon , and the mock turtle had just begun to repeat it , when a cry of ' the trial 's beginning ! ' was heard in the distance .
'come on ! ' cried the gryphon , and , taking alice by the hand , it hurried off , without waiting for the end of the song .
'what trial is it ? ' alice panted as she ran ; but the gryphon only answered ' come on ! ' and ran the faster , while more and more faintly came , carried on the breeze that followed them , the melancholy words : --
'soo--oop of the e--e--evening , beautiful , beautiful soup ! '
chapter xi who stole the tarts ?
the king and queen of hearts were seated on their throne when they arrived , with a great crowd assembled about them--all sorts of little birds and beasts , as well as the whole pack of cards : the knave was standing before them , in chains , with a soldier on each side to guard him ; and near the king was the white rabbit , with a trumpet in one hand , and a scroll of parchment in the other .
in the very middle of the court was a table , with a large dish of tarts upon it : they looked so good , that it made alice quite hungry to look at them-- ' i wish they 'd get the trial done , ' she thought , ' and hand round the refreshments ! ' but there seemed to be no chance of this , so she began looking at everything about her , to pass away the time .
alice had never been in a court of justice before , but she had read about them in books , and she was quite pleased to find that she knew the name of nearly everything there .
'that 's the judge , ' she said to herself , ' because of his great wig . '
the judge , by the way , was the king ; and as he wore his crown over the wig , ( look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he did it , ) he did not look at all comfortable , and it was certainly not becoming .
'and that 's the jury-box , ' thought alice , ' and those twelve creatures , ' ( she was obliged to say ' creatures , ' you see , because some of them were animals , and some were birds , ) ' i suppose they are the jurors . ' she said this last word two or three times over to herself , being rather proud of it : for she thought , and rightly too , that very few little girls of her age knew the meaning of it at all . however , ' jury-men ' would have done just as well .
the twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates .
'what are they doing ? ' alice whispered to the gryphon .
'they can 't have anything to put down yet , before the trial 's begun . '
'they 're putting down their names , ' the gryphon whispered in reply , ' for fear they should forget them before the end of the trial . '
'stupid things ! ' alice began in a loud , indignant voice , but she stopped hastily , for the white rabbit cried out , ' silence in the court ! ' and the king put on his spectacles and looked anxiously round , to make out who was talking .
alice could see , as well as if she were looking over their shoulders , that all the jurors were writing down ' stupid things ! ' on their slates , and she could even make out that one of them didn 't know how to spell ' stupid , ' and that he had to ask his neighbour to tell him .
'a nice muddle their slates 'll be in before the trial 's over ! ' thought alice .
one of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked . this of course , alice could not stand , and she went round the court and got behind him , and very soon found an opportunity of taking it away .
she did it so quickly that the poor little juror ( it was bill , the lizard ) could not make out at all what had become of it ; so , after hunting all about for it , he was obliged to write with one finger for the rest of the day ; and this was of very little use , as it left no mark on the slate .
'herald , read the accusation ! ' said the king .
on this the white rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet , and then unrolled the parchment scroll , and read as follows : --
'the queen of hearts , she made some tarts , all on a summer day : the knave of hearts , he stole those tarts , and took them quite away ! '
'consider your verdict , ' the king said to the jury .
'not yet , not yet ! ' the rabbit hastily interrupted . ' there 's a great deal to come before that ! '
'call the first witness , ' said the king ; and the white rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet , and called out , ' first witness ! '
the first witness was the hatter .
he came in with a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other .
'i beg pardon , your majesty , ' he began , ' for bringing these in : but i hadn 't quite finished my tea when i was sent for . '
'you ought to have finished , ' said the king . ' when did you begin ? '
the hatter looked at the march hare , who had followed him into the court , arm-in-arm with the dormouse .
'fourteenth of march , i think it was , ' he said .
'fifteenth , ' said the march hare .
'sixteenth , ' added the dormouse .
'write that down , ' the king said to the jury , and the jury eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates , and then added them up , and reduced the answer to shillings and pence .
'take off your hat , ' the king said to the hatter .
'it isn 't mine , ' said the hatter .
'stolen ! ' the king exclaimed , turning to the jury , who instantly made a memorandum of the fact .
'i keep them to sell , ' the hatter added as an explanation ; ' i 've none of my own .
i 'm a hatter . '
here the queen put on her spectacles , and began staring at the hatter , who turned pale and fidgeted .
'give your evidence , ' said the king ; ' and don 't be nervous , or i 'll have you executed on the spot . '
this did not seem to encourage the witness at all : he kept shifting from one foot to the other , looking uneasily at the queen , and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the bread-and-butter .
just at this moment alice felt a very curious sensation , which puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was : she was beginning to grow larger again , and she thought at first she would get up and leave the court ; but on second thoughts she decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for her .
'i wish you wouldn 't squeeze so . ' said the dormouse , who was sitting next to her . ' i can hardly breathe . '
'i can 't help it , ' said alice very meekly : ' i 'm growing . '
'you 've no right to grow here , ' said the dormouse .
'don 't talk nonsense , ' said alice more boldly : ' you know you 're growing too . '
'yes , but i grow at a reasonable pace , ' said the dormouse : ' not in that ridiculous fashion . '
and he got up very sulkily and crossed over to the other side of the court .
all this time the queen had never left off staring at the hatter , and , just as the dormouse crossed the court , she said to one of the officers of the court , ' bring me the list of the singers in the last concert ! ' on which the wretched hatter trembled so , that he shook both his shoes off .
'give your evidence , ' the king repeated angrily , ' or i 'll have you executed , whether you 're nervous or not . '
'i 'm a poor man , your majesty , ' the hatter began , in a trembling voice , ' --and i hadn 't begun my tea--not above a week or so--and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin--and the twinkling of the tea--'
'the twinkling of the what ? ' said the king .
'it began with the tea , ' the hatter replied .
'of course twinkling begins with a t ! ' said the king sharply .
'do you take me for a dunce ?
go on ! '
'i 'm a poor man , ' the hatter went on , ' and most things twinkled after that--only the march hare said--'
'i didn 't ! ' the march hare interrupted in a great hurry .
'you did ! ' said the hatter .
'i deny it ! ' said the march hare .
'he denies it , ' said the king : ' leave out that part . '
'well , at any rate , the dormouse said-- ' the hatter went on , looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too : but the dormouse denied nothing , being fast asleep .
'after that , ' continued the hatter , ' i cut some more bread- and-butter--'
'but what did the dormouse say ? ' one of the jury asked .
'that i can 't remember , ' said the hatter .
'you must remember , ' remarked the king , ' or i 'll have you executed . '
the miserable hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter , and went down on one knee .
'i 'm a poor man , your majesty , ' he began .
'you 're a very poor speaker , ' said the king .
here one of the guinea-pigs cheered , and was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court .
( as that is rather a hard word , i will just explain to you how it was done .
they had a large canvas bag , which tied up at the mouth with strings : into this they slipped the guinea-pig , head first , and then sat upon it . )
'i 'm glad i 've seen that done , ' thought alice .
'i 've so often read in the newspapers , at the end of trials , " there was some attempts at applause , which was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court , " and i never understood what it meant till now . '
'if that 's all you know about it , you may stand down , ' continued the king .
'i can 't go no lower , ' said the hatter : ' i 'm on the floor , as it is . '
'then you may sit down , ' the king replied .
here the other guinea-pig cheered , and was suppressed .
'come , that finished the guinea-pigs ! ' thought alice .
'now we shall get on better . '
'i 'd rather finish my tea , ' said the hatter , with an anxious look at the queen , who was reading the list of singers .
'you may go , ' said the king , and the hatter hurriedly left the court , without even waiting to put his shoes on .
'--and just take his head off outside , ' the queen added to one of the officers : but the hatter was out of sight before the officer could get to the door .
'call the next witness ! ' said the king .
the next witness was the duchess 's cook . she carried the pepper-box in her hand , and alice guessed who it was , even before she got into the court , by the way the people near the door began sneezing all at once .
'give your evidence , ' said the king .
'shan 't , ' said the cook .
the king looked anxiously at the white rabbit , who said in a low voice , ' your majesty must cross-examine this witness . '
'well , if i must , i must , ' the king said , with a melancholy air , and , after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till his eyes were nearly out of sight , he said in a deep voice ,
'what are tarts made of ? '
'pepper , mostly , ' said the cook .
'treacle , ' said a sleepy voice behind her .
'collar that dormouse , ' the queen shrieked out .
'behead that dormouse !
turn that dormouse out of court ! suppress him !
pinch him ! off with his whiskers ! '
for some minutes the whole court was in confusion , getting the dormouse turned out , and , by the time they had settled down again , the cook had disappeared .
'never mind ! ' said the king , with an air of great relief . ' call the next witness . '
and he added in an undertone to the queen , ' really , my dear , you must cross-examine the next witness . it quite makes my forehead ache ! '
alice watched the white rabbit as he fumbled over the list , feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like , ' --for they haven 't got much evidence yet , ' she said to herself .
imagine her surprise , when the white rabbit read out , at the top of his shrill little voice , the name ' alice ! '
chapter xii alice 's evidence
'here ! ' cried alice , quite forgetting in the flurry of the moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes , and she jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with the edge of her skirt , upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads of the crowd below , and there they lay sprawling about , reminding her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset the week before .
'oh , i beg your pardon ! ' she exclaimed in a tone of great dismay , and began picking them up again as quickly as she could , for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head , and she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once and put back into the jury-box , or they would die .
'the trial cannot proceed , ' said the king in a very grave voice , ' until all the jurymen are back in their proper places-- all , ' he repeated with great emphasis , looking hard at alice as he said do .
alice looked at the jury-box , and saw that , in her haste , she had put the lizard in head downwards , and the poor little thing was waving its tail about in a melancholy way , being quite unable to move .
she soon got it out again , and put it right ; ' not that it signifies much , ' she said to herself ; ' i should think it would be quite as much use in the trial one way up as the other . '
as soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of being upset , and their slates and pencils had been found and handed back to them , they set to work very diligently to write out a history of the accident , all except the lizard , who seemed too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth open , gazing up into the roof of the court .
'what do you know about this business ? ' the king said to alice .
'nothing , ' said alice .
'nothing whatever ? ' persisted the king .
'nothing whatever , ' said alice .
'that 's very important , ' the king said , turning to the jury .
they were just beginning to write this down on their slates , when the white rabbit interrupted : ' unimportant , your majesty means , of course , ' he said in a very respectful tone , but frowning and making faces at him as he spoke .
'unimportant , of course , i meant , ' the king hastily said , and went on to himself in an undertone , ' important--unimportant-- unimportant--important-- ' as if he were trying which word sounded best .
some of the jury wrote it down ' important , ' and some ' unimportant . '
alice could see this , as she was near enough to look over their slates ; ' but it doesn 't matter a bit , ' she thought to herself .
at this moment the king , who had been for some time busily writing in his note-book , cackled out ' silence ! ' and read out from his book , ' rule forty-two . all persons more than a mile hight to leave the court . '
everybody looked at alice .
'i 'm not a mile high , ' said alice .
'you are , ' said the king .
'nearly two miles high , ' added the queen .
'well , i shan 't go , at any rate , ' said alice : ' besides , that 's not a regular rule : you invented it just now . '
'it 's the oldest rule in the book , ' said the king .
'then it ought to be number one , ' said alice .
the king turned pale , and shut his note-book hastily .
'consider your verdict , ' he said to the jury , in a low , trembling voice .
'there 's more evidence to come yet , please your majesty , ' said the white rabbit , jumping up in a great hurry ; ' this paper has just been picked up . '
'what 's in it ? ' said the queen .
'i haven 't opened it yet , ' said the white rabbit , ' but it seems to be a letter , written by the prisoner to--to somebody . '
'it must have been that , ' said the king , ' unless it was written to nobody , which isn 't usual , you know . '
'who is it directed to ? ' said one of the jurymen .
'it isn 't directed at all , ' said the white rabbit ; ' in fact , there 's nothing written on the outside . '
he unfolded the paper as he spoke , and added ' it isn 't a letter , after all : it 's a set of verses . '
'are they in the prisoner 's handwriting ? ' asked another of they jurymen .
'no , they 're not , ' said the white rabbit , ' and that 's the queerest thing about it . '
( the jury all looked puzzled . )
'he must have imitated somebody else 's hand , ' said the king .
( the jury all brightened up again . )
'please your majesty , ' said the knave , ' i didn 't write it , and they can 't prove i did : there 's no name signed at the end . '
'if you didn 't sign it , ' said the king , ' that only makes the matter worse . you must have meant some mischief , or else you 'd have signed your name like an honest man . '
there was a general clapping of hands at this : it was the first really clever thing the king had said that day .
'that proves his guilt , ' said the queen .
'it proves nothing of the sort ! ' said alice .
'why , you don 't even know what they 're about ! '
'read them , ' said the king .
the white rabbit put on his spectacles .
'where shall i begin , please your majesty ? ' he asked .
'begin at the beginning , ' the king said gravely , ' and go on till you come to the end : then stop . '
these were the verses the white rabbit read : --
'they told me you had been to her , and mentioned me to him : she gave me a good character , but said i could not swim .
he sent them word i had not gone ( we know it to be true ) : if she should push the matter on , what would become of you ?
i gave her one , they gave him two , you gave us three or more ; they all returned from him to you , though they were mine before .
if i or she should chance to be involved in this affair , he trusts to you to set them free , exactly as we were .
my notion was that you had been ( before she had this fit ) an obstacle that came between him , and ourselves , and it .
don 't let him know she liked them best , for this must ever be a secret , kept from all the rest , between yourself and me . '
'that 's the most important piece of evidence we 've heard yet , ' said the king , rubbing his hands ; ' so now let the jury--'
'if any one of them can explain it , ' said alice , ( she had grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn 't a bit afraid of interrupting him , ) ' i 'll give him sixpence . _ i _ don 't believe there 's an atom of meaning in it . '
the jury all wrote down on their slates , ' she doesn 't believe there 's an atom of meaning in it , ' but none of them attempted to explain the paper .
'if there 's no meaning in it , ' said the king , ' that saves a world of trouble , you know , as we needn 't try to find any . and yet i don 't know , ' he went on , spreading out the verses on his knee , and looking at them with one eye ; ' i seem to see some meaning in them , after all . " -said i could not swim-- " you can 't swim , can you ? ' he added , turning to the knave .
the knave shook his head sadly .
'do i look like it ? ' he said .
( which he certainly did not , being made entirely of cardboard . )
'all right , so far , ' said the king , and he went on muttering over the verses to himself : ' " we know it to be true-- " that 's the jury , of course-- " i gave her one , they gave him two-- " why , that must be what he did with the tarts , you know--'
'but , it goes on " they all returned from him to you , " ' said alice .
'why , there they are ! ' said the king triumphantly , pointing to the tarts on the table .
'nothing can be clearer than that .
then again-- " before she had this fit-- " you never had fits , my dear , i think ? ' he said to the queen .
'never ! ' said the queen furiously , throwing an inkstand at the lizard as she spoke .
( the unfortunate little bill had left off writing on his slate with one finger , as he found it made no mark ; but he now hastily began again , using the ink , that was trickling down his face , as long as it lasted . )
'then the words don 't fit you , ' said the king , looking round the court with a smile .
there was a dead silence .
'it 's a pun ! ' the king added in an offended tone , and everybody laughed , ' let the jury consider their verdict , ' the king said , for about the twentieth time that day .
'no , no ! ' said the queen . ' sentence first--verdict afterwards . '
'stuff and nonsense ! ' said alice loudly .
'the idea of having the sentence first ! '
'hold your tongue ! ' said the queen , turning purple .
'i won 't ! ' said alice .
'off with her head ! ' the queen shouted at the top of her voice .
nobody moved .
'who cares for you ? ' said alice , ( she had grown to her full size by this time . )
'you 're nothing but a pack of cards ! '
at this the whole pack rose up into the air , and came flying down upon her : she gave a little scream , half of fright and half of anger , and tried to beat them off , and found herself lying on the bank , with her head in the lap of her sister , who was gently brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon her face .
'wake up , alice dear ! ' said her sister ; ' why , what a long sleep you 've had ! '
'oh , i 've had such a curious dream ! ' said alice , and she told her sister , as well as she could remember them , all these strange adventures of hers that you have just been reading about ; and when she had finished , her sister kissed her , and said ,
'it was a curious dream , dear , certainly : but now run in to your tea ; it 's getting late . '
so alice got up and ran off , thinking while she ran , as well she might , what a wonderful dream it had been .
but her sister sat still just as she left her , leaning her head on her hand , watching the setting sun , and thinking of little alice and all her wonderful adventures , till she too began dreaming after a fashion , and this was her dream : --
first , she dreamed of little alice herself , and once again the tiny hands were clasped upon her knee , and the bright eager eyes were looking up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her voice , and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back the wandering hair that would always get into her eyes--and still as she listened , or seemed to listen , the whole place around her became alive the strange creatures of her little sister 's dream .
the long grass rustled at her feet as the white rabbit hurried by--the frightened mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool--she could hear the rattle of the teacups as the march hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal , and the shrill voice of the queen ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution--once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the duchess 's knee , while plates and dishes crashed around it--once more the shriek of the gryphon , the squeaking of the lizard 's slate-pencil , and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs , filled the air , mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable mock turtle .
so she sat on , with closed eyes , and half believed herself in wonderland , though she knew she had but to open them again , and all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only rustling in the wind , and the pool rippling to the waving of the reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-bells , and the queen 's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd boy--and the sneeze of the baby , the shriek of the gryphon , and all the other queer noises , would change ( she knew ) to the confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the mock turtle 's heavy sobs .
lastly , she pictured to herself how this same little sister of hers would , in the after-time , be herself a grown woman ; and how she would keep , through all her riper years , the simple and loving heart of her childhood : and how she would gather about her other little children , and make their eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale , perhaps even with the dream of wonderland of long ago : and how she would feel with all their simple sorrows , and find a pleasure in all their simple joys , remembering her own child-life , and the happy summer days .
moll flanders
by daniel defoe
my true name is so well known in the records or registers at newgate , and in the old bailey , and there are some things of such consequence still depending there , relating to my particular conduct , that it is not be expected i should set my name or the account of my family to this work ; perhaps , after my death , it may be better known ; at present it would not be proper , no not though a general pardon should be issued , even without exceptions and reserve of persons or crimes .
it is enough to tell you , that as some of my worst comrades , who are out of the way of doing me harm ( having gone out of the world by the steps and the string , as i often expected to go ) , knew me by the name of moll flanders , so you may give me leave to speak of myself under that name till i dare own who i have been , as well as who i am .
i have been told that in one of neighbour nations , whether it be in france or where else i know not , they have an order from the king , that when any criminal is condemned , either to die , or to the galleys , or to be transported , if they leave any children , as such are generally unprovided for , by the poverty or forfeiture of their parents , so they are immediately taken into the care of the government , and put into a hospital called the house of orphans , where they are bred up , clothed , fed , taught , and when fit to go out , are placed out to trades or to services , so as to be well able to provide for themselves by an honest , industrious behaviour .
had this been the custom in our country , i had not been left a poor desolate girl without friends , without clothes , without help or helper in the world , as was my fate ; and by which i was not only exposed to very great distresses , even before i was capable either of understanding my case or how to amend it , but brought into a course of life which was not only scandalous in itself , but which in its ordinary course tended to the swift destruction both of soul and body .
but the case was otherwise here .
my mother was convicted of felony for a certain petty theft scarce worth naming , viz. having an opportunity of borrowing three pieces of fine holland of a certain draper in cheapside . the circumstances are too long to repeat , and i have heard them related so many ways , that i can scarce be certain which is the right account .
however it was , this they all agree in , that my mother pleaded her belly , and being found quick with child , she was respited for about seven months ; in which time having brought me into the world , and being about again , she was called down , as they term it , to her former judgment , but obtained the favour of being transported to the plantations , and left me about half a year old ; and in bad hands , you may be sure .
this is too near the first hours of my life for me to relate anything of myself but by hearsay ; it is enough to mention , that as i was born in such an unhappy place , i had no parish to have recourse to for my nourishment in my infancy ; nor can i give the least account how i was kept alive , other than that , as i have been told , some relation of my mother 's took me away for a while as a nurse , but at whose expense , or by whose direction , i know nothing at all of it .
the first account that i can recollect , or could ever learn of myself , was that i had wandered among a crew of those people they call gypsies , or egyptians ; but i believe it was but a very little while that i had been among them , for i had not had my skin discoloured or blackened , as they do very young to all the children they carry about with them ; nor can i tell how i came among them , or how i got from them .
it was at colchester , in essex , that those people left me ; and i have a notion in my head that i left them there ( that is , that i hid myself and would not go any farther with them ) , but i am not able to be particular in that account ; only this i remember , that being taken up by some of the parish officers of colchester , i gave an account that i came into the town with the gypsies , but that i would not go any farther with them , and that so they had left me , but whither they were gone that i knew not , nor could they expect it of me ; for though they send round the country to inquire after them , it seems they could not be found .
i was now in a way to be provided for ; for though i was not a parish charge upon this or that part of the town by law , yet as my case came to be known , and that i was too young to do any work , being not above three years old , compassion moved the magistrates of the town to order some care to be taken of me , and i became one of their own as much as if i had been born in the place .
in the provision they made for me , it was my good hap to be put to nurse , as they call it , to a woman who was indeed poor but had been in better circumstances , and who got a little livelihood by taking such as i was supposed to be , and keeping them with all necessaries , till they were at a certain age , in which it might be supposed they might go to service or get their own bread .
this woman had also had a little school , which she kept to teach children to read and to work ; and having , as i have said , lived before that in good fashion , she bred up the children she took with a great deal of art , as well as with a great deal of care .
but that which was worth all the rest , she bred them up very religiously , being herself a very sober , pious woman , very house-wifely and clean , and very mannerly , and with good behaviour .
so that in a word , expecting a plain diet , coarse lodging , and mean clothes , we were brought up as mannerly and as genteelly as if we had been at the dancing-school .
i was continued here till i was eight years old , when i was terrified with news that the magistrates ( as i think they called them ) had ordered that i should go to service . i was able to do but very little service wherever i was to go , except it was to run of errands and be a drudge to some cookmaid , and this they told me of often , which put me into a great fright ; for i had a thorough aversion to going to service , as they called it ( that is , to be a servant ) , though i was so young ; and i told my nurse , as we called her , that i believed i could get my living without going to service , if she pleased to let me ; for she had taught me to work with my needle , and spin worsted , which is the chief trade of that city , and i told her that if she would keep me , i would work for her , and i would work very hard .
i talked to her almost every day of working hard ; and , in short , i did nothing but work and cry all day , which grieved the good , kind woman so much , that at last she began to be concerned for me , for she loved me very well .
one day after this , as she came into the room where all we poor children were at work , she sat down just over against me , not in her usual place as mistress , but as if she set herself on purpose to observe me and see me work . i was doing something she had set me to ; as i remember , it was marking some shirts which she had taken to make , and after a while she began to talk to me .
'thou foolish child , ' says she , ' thou art always crying ( for i was crying then ) ; ' prithee , what dost cry for ? '
'because they will take me away , ' says i , ' and put me to service , and i can 't work housework . '
'well , child , ' says she , ' but though you can 't work housework , as you call it , you will learn it in time , and they won 't put you to hard things at first . '
'yes , they will , ' says i , ' and if i can 't do it they will beat me , and the maids will beat me to make me do great work , and i am but a little girl and i can 't do it ' ; and then i cried again , till i could not speak any more to her .
this moved my good motherly nurse , so that she from that time resolved i should not go to service yet ; so she bid me not cry , and she would speak to mr. mayor , and i should not go to service till i was bigger .
well , this did not satisfy me , for to think of going to service was such a frightful thing to me , that if she had assured me i should not have gone till i was twenty years old , it would have been the same to me ; i should have cried , i believe , all the time , with the very apprehension of its being to be so at last .
when she saw that i was not pacified yet , she began to be angry with me .
'and what would you have ? ' says she ; ' don 't i tell you that you shall not go to service till your are bigger ? '
'ay , ' said i , ' but then i must go at last . '
'why , what ? ' said she ; ' is the girl mad ?
what would you be--a gentlewoman ? '
'yes , ' says i , and cried heartily till i roared out again .
this set the old gentlewoman a-laughing at me , as you may be sure it would .
'well , madam , forsooth , ' says she , gibing at me , ' you would be a gentlewoman ; and pray how will you come to be a gentlewoman ?
what ! will you do it by your fingers ' end ? '
'yes , ' says i again , very innocently . ' why , what can you earn ? ' says she ; ' what can you get at your work ? '
'threepence , ' said i , ' when i spin , and fourpence when i work plain work . '
'alas ! poor gentlewoman , ' said she again , laughing , ' what will that do for thee ? '
'it will keep me , ' says i , ' if you will let me live with you . '
and this i said in such a poor petitioning tone , that it made the poor woman 's heart yearn to me , as she told me afterwards .
'but , ' says she , ' that will not keep you and buy you clothes too ; and who must buy the little gentlewoman clothes ? ' says she , and smiled all the while at me .
'i will work harder , then , ' says i , ' and you shall have it all . '
'poor child ! it won 't keep you , ' says she ; ' it will hardly keep you in victuals . '
'then i will have no victuals , ' says i , again very innocently ; ' let me but live with you . '
'why , can you live without victuals ? ' says she .
'yes , ' again says i , very much like a child , you may be sure , and still i cried heartily .
i had no policy in all this ; you may easily see it was all nature ; but it was joined with so much innocence and so much passion that , in short , it set the good motherly creature a-weeping too , and she cried at last as fast as i did , and then took me and led me out of the teaching-room .
'come , ' says she , ' you shan 't go to service ; you shall live with me ' ; and this pacified me for the present . some time after this , she going to wait on the mayor , and talking of such things as belonged to her business , at last my story came up , and my good nurse told mr. mayor the whole tale .
he was so pleased with it , that he would call his lady and his two daughters to hear it , and it made mirth enough among them , you may be sure . however , not a week had passed over , but on a sudden comes mrs. mayoress and her two daughters to the house to see my old nurse , and to see her school and the children .
when they had looked about them a little , ' well , mrs. ---- , ' says the mayoress to my nurse , ' and pray which is the little lass that intends to be a gentlewoman ? '
i heard her , and i was terribly frighted at first , though i did not know why neither ; but mrs. mayoress comes up to me .
'well , miss , ' says she , ' and what are you at work upon ? '
the word miss was a language that had hardly been heard of in our school , and i wondered what sad name it was she called me .
however , i stood up , made a curtsy , and she took my work out of my hand , looked on it , and said it was very well ; then she took up one of the hands .
'nay , ' says she , ' the child may come to be a gentlewoman for aught anybody knows ; she has a gentlewoman 's hand , ' says she . this pleased me mightily , you may be sure ; but mrs. mayoress did not stop there , but giving me my work again , she put her hand in her pocket , gave me a shilling , and bid me mind my work , and learn to work well , and i might be a gentlewoman for aught she knew .
now all this while my good old nurse , mrs. mayoress , and all the rest of them did not understand me at all , for they meant one sort of thing by the word gentlewoman , and i meant quite another ; for alas ! all i understood by being a gentlewoman was to be able to work for myself , and get enough to keep me without that terrible bugbear going to service , whereas they meant to live great , rich and high , and i know not what .
well , after mrs. mayoress was gone , her two daughters came in , and they called for the gentlewoman too , and they talked a long while to me , and i answered them in my innocent way ; but always , if they asked me whether i resolved to be a gentlewoman , i answered yes . at last one of them asked me what a gentlewoman was ?
that puzzled me much ; but , however , i explained myself negatively , that it was one that did not go to service , to do housework . they were pleased to be familiar with me , and like my little prattle to them , which , it seems , was agreeable enough to them , and they gave me money too .
as for my money , i gave it all to my mistress-nurse , as i called her , and told her she should have all i got for myself when i was a gentlewoman , as well as now . by this and some other of my talk , my old tutoress began to understand me about what i meant by being a gentlewoman , and that i understood by it no more than to be able to get my bread by my own work ; and at last she asked me whether it was not so .
i told her , yes , and insisted on it , that to do so was to be a gentlewoman ; ' for , ' says i , ' there is such a one , ' naming a woman that mended lace and washed the ladies ' laced-heads ; ' she , ' says i , ' is a gentlewoman , and they call her madam . '
'poor child , ' says my good old nurse , ' you may soon be such a gentlewoman as that , for she is a person of ill fame , and has had two or three bastards . '
i did not understand anything of that ; but i answered , ' i am sure they call her madam , and she does not go to service nor do housework ' ; and therefore i insisted that she was a gentlewoman , and i would be such a gentlewoman as that .
the ladies were told all this again , to be sure , and they made themselves merry with it , and every now and then the young ladies , mr. mayor 's daughters , would come and see me , and ask where the little gentlewoman was , which made me not a little proud of myself . this held a great while , and i was often visited by these young ladies , and sometimes they brought others with them ; so that i was known by it almost all over the town .
i was now about ten years old , and began to look a little womanish , for i was mighty grave and humble , very mannerly , and as i had often heard the ladies say i was pretty , and would be a very handsome woman , so you may be sure that hearing them say so made me not a little proud . however , that pride had no ill effect upon me yet ; only , as they often gave me money , and i gave it to my old nurse , she , honest woman , was so just to me as to lay it all out again for me , and gave me head-dresses , and linen , and gloves , and ribbons , and i went very neat , and always clean ; for that i would do , and if i had rags on , i would always be clean , or else i would dabble them in water myself ; but , i say , my good nurse , when i had money given me , very honestly laid it out for me , and would always tell the ladies this or that was bought with their money ; and this made them oftentimes give me more , till at last i was indeed called upon by the magistrates , as i understood it , to go out to service ; but then i was come to be so good a workwoman myself , and the ladies were so kind to me , that it was plain i could maintain myself--that is to say , i could earn as much for my nurse as she was able by it to keep me--so she told them that if they would give her leave , she would keep the gentlewoman , as she called me , to be her assistant and teach the children , which i was very well able to do ; for i was very nimble at my work , and had a good hand with my needle , though i was yet very young .
but the kindness of the ladies of the town did not end here , for when they came to understand that i was no more maintained by the public allowance as before , they gave me money oftener than formerly ; and as i grew up they brought me work to do for them , such as linen to make , and laces to mend , and heads to dress up , and not only paid me for doing them , but even taught me how to do them ; so that now i was a gentlewoman indeed , as i understood that word , i not only found myself clothes and paid my nurse for my keeping , but got money in my pocket too beforehand .
the ladies also gave me clothes frequently of their own or their children 's ; some stockings , some petticoats , some gowns , some one thing , some another , and these my old woman managed for me like a mere mother , and kept them for me , obliged me to mend them , and turn them and twist them to the best advantage , for she was a rare housewife .
at last one of the ladies took so much fancy to me that she would have me home to her house , for a month , she said , to be among her daughters .
now , though this was exceeding kind in her , yet , as my old good woman said to her , unless she resolved to keep me for good and all , she would do the little gentlewoman more harm than good . ' well , ' says the lady , ' that 's true ; and therefore i 'll only take her home for a week , then , that i may see how my daughters and she agree together , and how i like her temper , and then i 'll tell you more ; and in the meantime , if anybody comes to see her as they used to do , you may only tell them you have sent her out to my house . '
this was prudently managed enough , and i went to the lady 's house ; but i was so pleased there with the young ladies , and they so pleased with me , that i had enough to do to come away , and they were as unwilling to part with me .
however , i did come away , and lived almost a year more with my honest old woman , and began now to be very helpful to her ; for i was almost fourteen years old , was tall of my age , and looked a little womanish ; but i had such a taste of genteel living at the lady 's house that i was not so easy in my old quarters as i used to be , and i thought it was fine to be a gentlewoman indeed , for i had quite other notions of a gentlewoman now than i had before ; and as i thought , i say , that it was fine to be a gentlewoman , so i loved to be among gentlewomen , and therefore i longed to be there again .
about the time that i was fourteen years and a quarter old , my good nurse , mother i rather to call her , fell sick and died .
i was then in a sad condition indeed , for as there is no great bustle in putting an end to a poor body 's family when once they are carried to the grave , so the poor good woman being buried , the parish children she kept were immediately removed by the church-wardens ; the school was at an end , and the children of it had no more to do but just stay at home till they were sent somewhere else ; and as for what she left , her daughter , a married woman with six or seven children , came and swept it all away at once , and removing the goods , they had no more to say to me than to jest with me , and tell me that the little gentlewoman might set up for herself if she pleased .
i was frighted out of my wits almost , and knew not what to do , for i was , as it were , turned out of doors to the wide world , and that which was still worse , the old honest woman had two-and-twenty shillings of mine in her hand , which was all the estate the little gentlewoman had in the world ; and when i asked the daughter for it , she huffed me and laughed at me , and told me she had nothing to do with it .
it was true the good , poor woman had told her daughter of it , and that it lay in such a place , that it was the child 's money , and had called once or twice for me to give it me , but i was , unhappily , out of the way somewhere or other , and when i came back she was past being in a condition to speak of it . however , the daughter was so honest afterwards as to give it me , though at first she used me cruelly about it .
now was i a poor gentlewoman indeed , and i was just that very night to be turned into the wide world ; for the daughter removed all the goods , and i had not so much as a lodging to go to , or a bit of bread to eat . but it seems some of the neighbours , who had known my circumstances , took so much compassion of me as to acquaint the lady in whose family i had been a week , as i mentioned above ; and immediately she sent her maid to fetch me away , and two of her daughters came with the maid though unsent .
so i went with them , bag and baggage , and with a glad heart , you may be sure . the fright of my condition had made such an impression upon me , that i did not want now to be a gentlewoman , but was very willing to be a servant , and that any kind of servant they thought fit to have me be .
but my new generous mistress , for she exceeded the good woman i was with before , in everything , as well as in the matter of estate ; i say , in everything except honesty ; and for that , though this was a lady most exactly just , yet i must not forget to say on all occasions , that the first , though poor , was as uprightly honest as it was possible for any one to be .
i was no sooner carried away , as i have said , by this good gentlewoman , but the first lady , that is to say , the mayoress that was , sent her two daughters to take care of me ; and another family which had taken notice of me when i was the little gentlewoman , and had given me work to do , sent for me after her , so that i was mightily made of , as we say ; nay , and they were not a little angry , especially madam the mayoress , that her friend had taken me away from her , as she called it ; for , as she said , i was hers by right , she having been the first that took any notice of me . but they that had me would not part with me ; and as for me , though i should have been very well treated with any of the others , yet i could not be better than where i was .
here i continued till i was between seventeen and eighteen years old , and here i had all the advantages for my education that could be imagined ; the lady had masters home to the house to teach her daughters to dance , and to speak french , and to write , and other to teach them music ; and i was always with them , i learned as fast as they ; and though the masters were not appointed to teach me , yet i learned by imitation and inquiry all that they learned by instruction and direction ; so that , in short , i learned to dance and speak french as well as any of them , and to sing much better , for i had a better voice than any of them .
i could not so readily come at playing on the harpsichord or spinet , because i had no instrument of my own to practice on , and could only come at theirs in the intervals when they left it , which was uncertain ; but yet i learned tolerably well too , and the young ladies at length got two instruments , that is to say , a harpsichord and a spinet too , and then they taught me themselves . but as to dancing , they could hardly help my learning country-dances , because they always wanted me to make up even number ; and , on the other hand , they were as heartily willing to learn me everything that they had been taught themselves , as i could be to take the learning .
by this means i had , as i have said above , all the advantages of education that i could have had if i had been as much a gentlewoman as they were with whom i lived ; and in some things i had the advantage of my ladies , though they were my superiors ; but they were all the gifts of nature , and which all their fortunes could not furnish .
first , i was apparently handsomer than any of them ; secondly , i was better shaped ; and , thirdly , i sang better , by which i mean i had a better voice ; in all which you will , i hope , allow me to say , i do not speak my own conceit of myself , but the opinion of all that knew the family .
i had with all these the common vanity of my sex , viz. that being really taken for very handsome , or , if you please , for a great beauty , i very well knew it , and had as good an opinion of myself as anybody else could have of me ; and particularly i loved to hear anybody speak of it , which could not but happen to me sometimes , and was a great satisfaction to me .
thus far i have had a smooth story to tell of myself , and in all this part of my life i not only had the reputation of living in a very good family , and a family noted and respected everywhere for virtue and sobriety , and for every valuable thing ; but i had the character too of a very sober , modest , and virtuous young woman , and such i had always been ; neither had i yet any occasion to think of anything else , or to know what a temptation to wickedness meant .
but that which i was too vain of was my ruin , or rather my vanity was the cause of it .
the lady in the house where i was had two sons , young gentlemen of very promising parts and of extraordinary behaviour , and it was my misfortune to be very well with them both , but they managed themselves with me in a quite different manner .
the eldest , a gay gentleman that knew the town as well as the country , and though he had levity enough to do an ill-natured thing , yet had too much judgment of things to pay too dear for his pleasures ; he began with the unhappy snare to all women , viz. taking notice upon all occasions how pretty i was , as he called it , how agreeable , how well-carriaged , and the like ; and this he contrived so subtly , as if he had known as well how to catch a woman in his net as a partridge when he went a-setting ; for he would contrive to be talking this to his sisters when , though i was not by , yet when he knew i was not far off but that i should be sure to hear him .
his sisters would return softly to him , ' hush , brother , she will hear you ; she is but in the next room . '
then he would put it off and talk softlier , as if he had not know it , and begin to acknowledge he was wrong ; and then , as if he had forgot himself , he would speak aloud again , and i , that was so well pleased to hear it , was sure to listen for it upon all occasions .
after he had thus baited his hook , and found easily enough the method how to lay it in my way , he played an opener game ; and one day , going by his sister 's chamber when i was there , doing something about dressing her , he comes in with an air of gaiety .
'oh , mrs. betty , ' said he to me , ' how do you do , mrs. betty ?
don 't your cheeks burn , mrs. betty ? '
i made a curtsy and blushed , but said nothing .
'what makes you talk so , brother ? ' says the lady .
'why , ' says he , ' we have been talking of her below-stairs this half-hour . '
'well , ' says his sister , ' you can say no harm of her , that i am sure , so ' tis no matter what you have been talking about . '
'nay , ' says he , " tis so far from talking harm of her , that we have been talking a great deal of good , and a great many fine things have been said of mrs. betty , i assure you ; and particularly , that she is the handsomest young woman in colchester ; and , in short , they begin to toast her health in the town . '
'i wonder at you , brother , ' says the sister . ' betty wants but one thing , but she had as good want everything , for the market is against our sex just now ; and if a young woman have beauty , birth , breeding , wit , sense , manners , modesty , and all these to an extreme , yet if she have not money , she 's nobody , she had as good want them all for nothing but money now recommends a woman ; the men play the game all into their own hands . '
her younger brother , who was by , cried , ' hold , sister , you run too fast ; i am an exception to your rule .
i assure you , if i find a woman so accomplished as you talk of , i say , i assure you , i would not trouble myself about the money . '
'oh , ' says the sister , ' but you will take care not to fancy one , then , without the money . '
'you don 't know that neither , ' says the brother .
'but why , sister , ' says the elder brother , ' why do you exclaim so at the men for aiming so much at the fortune ?
you are none of them that want a fortune , whatever else you want . '
'i understand you , brother , ' replies the lady very smartly ; ' you suppose i have the money , and want the beauty ; but as times go now , the first will do without the last , so i have the better of my neighbours . '
'well , ' says the younger brother , ' but your neighbours , as you call them , may be even with you , for beauty will steal a husband sometimes in spite of money , and when the maid chances to be handsomer than the mistress , she oftentimes makes as good a market , and rides in a coach before her . '
i thought it was time for me to withdraw and leave them , and i did so , but not so far but that i heard all their discourse , in which i heard abundance of the fine things said of myself , which served to prompt my vanity , but , as i soon found , was not the way to increase my interest in the family , for the sister and the younger brother fell grievously out about it ; and as he said some very disobliging things to her upon my account , so i could easily see that she resented them by her future conduct to me , which indeed was very unjust to me , for i had never had the least thought of what she suspected as to her younger brother ; indeed , the elder brother , in his distant , remote way , had said a great many things as in jest , which i had the folly to believe were in earnest , or to flatter myself with the hopes of what i ought to have supposed he never intended , and perhaps never thought of .
it happened one day that he came running upstairs , towards the room where his sisters used to sit and work , as he often used to do ; and calling to them before he came in , as was his way too , i , being there alone , stepped to the door , and said , ' sir , the ladies are not here , they are walked down the garden . '
as i stepped forward to say this , towards the door , he was just got to the door , and clasping me in his arms , as if it had been by chance , ' oh , mrs. betty , ' says he , ' are you here ?
that 's better still ; i want to speak with you more than i do with them ' ; and then , having me in his arms , he kissed me three or four times .
i struggled to get away , and yet did it but faintly neither , and he held me fast , and still kissed me , till he was almost out of breath , and then , sitting down , says , ' dear betty , i am in love with you . '
his words , i must confess , fired my blood ; all my spirits flew about my heart and put me into disorder enough , which he might easily have seen in my face .
he repeated it afterwards several times , that he was in love with me , and my heart spoke as plain as a voice , that i liked it ; nay , whenever he said , ' i am in love with you , ' my blushes plainly replied , ' would you were , sir . '
however , nothing else passed at that time ; it was but a surprise , and when he was gone i soon recovered myself again .
he had stayed longer with me , but he happened to look out at the window and see his sisters coming up the garden , so he took his leave , kissed me again , told me he was very serious , and i should hear more of him very quickly , and away he went , leaving me infinitely pleased , though surprised ; and had there not been one misfortune in it , i had been in the right , but the mistake lay here , that mrs. betty was in earnest and the gentleman was not .
from this time my head ran upon strange things , and i may truly say i was not myself ; to have such a gentleman talk to me of being in love with me , and of my being such a charming creature , as he told me i was ; these were things i knew not how to bear , my vanity was elevated to the last degree .
it is true i had my head full of pride , but , knowing nothing of the wickedness of the times , i had not one thought of my own safety or of my virtue about me ; and had my young master offered it at first sight , he might have taken any liberty he thought fit with me ; but he did not see his advantage , which was my happiness for that time .
after this attack it was not long but he found an opportunity to catch me again , and almost in the same posture ; indeed , it had more of design in it on his part , though not on my part .
it was thus : the young ladies were all gone a-visiting with their mother ; his brother was out of town ; and as for his father , he had been in london for a week before . he had so well watched me that he knew where i was , though i did not so much as know that he was in the house ; and he briskly comes up the stairs and , seeing me at work , comes into the room to me directly , and began just as he did before , with taking me in his arms , and kissing me for almost a quarter of an hour together .
it was his younger sister 's chamber that i was in , and as there was nobody in the house but the maids below-stairs , he was , it may be , the ruder ; in short , he began to be in earnest with me indeed . perhaps he found me a little too easy , for god knows i made no resistance to him while he only held me in his arms and kissed me ; indeed , i was too well pleased with it to resist him much .
however , as it were , tired with that kind of work , we sat down , and there he talked with me a great while ; he said he was charmed with me , and that he could not rest night or day till he had told me how he was in love with me , and , if i was able to love him again , and would make him happy , i should be the saving of his life , and many such fine things .
i said little to him again , but easily discovered that i was a fool , and that i did not in the least perceive what he meant .
then he walked about the room , and taking me by the hand , i walked with him ; and by and by , taking his advantage , he threw me down upon the bed , and kissed me there most violently ; but , to give him his due , offered no manner of rudeness to me , only kissed a great while . after this he thought he had heard somebody come upstairs , so got off from the bed , lifted me up , professing a great deal of love for me , but told me it was all an honest affection , and that he meant no ill to me ; and with that he put five guineas into my hand , and went away downstairs .
i was more confounded with the money than i was before with the love , and began to be so elevated that i scarce knew the ground i stood on .
this young gentleman had fired his inclination as much as he had my vanity , and , as if he had found that he had an opportunity and was sorry he did not take hold of it , he comes up again in half an hour or thereabouts , and falls to work with me again as before , only with a little less introduction .
and first , when he entered the room , he turned about and shut the door .
'mrs . betty , ' said he , ' i fancied before somebody was coming upstairs , but it was not so ; however , ' adds he , ' if they find me in the room with you , they shan 't catch me a-kissing of you . '
i told him i did not know who should be coming upstairs , for i believed there was nobody in the house but the cook and the other maid , and they never came up those stairs .
'well , my dear , ' says he , " tis good to be sure , however ' ; and so he sits down , and we began to talk .
and now , though i was still all on fire with his first visit , and said little , he did as it were put words in my mouth , telling me how passionately he loved me , and that though he could not mention such a thing till he came to this estate , yet he was resolved to make me happy then , and himself too ; that is to say , to marry me , and abundance of such fine things , which i , poor fool , did not understand the drift of , but acted as if there was no such thing as any kind of love but that which tended to matrimony ; and if he had spoke of that , i had no room , as well as no power , to have said no ; but we were not come that length yet .
we had not sat long , but he got up , and , stopping my very breath with kisses , threw me upon the bed again ; but then being both well warmed , he went farther with me than decency permits me to mention , nor had it been in my power to have denied him at that moment , had he offered much more than he did .
however , though he took these freedoms with me , it did not go to that which they call the last favour , which , to do him justice , he did not attempt ; and he made that self-denial of his a plea for all his freedoms with me upon other occasions after this .
when this was over , he stayed but a little while , but he put almost a handful of gold in my hand , and left me , making a thousand protestations of his passion for me , and of his loving me above all the women in the world .
it will not be strange if i now began to think , but alas ! it was but with very little solid reflection .
i had a most unbounded stock of vanity and pride , and but a very little stock of virtue .
i did indeed case sometimes with myself what young master aimed at , but thought of nothing but the fine words and the gold ; whether he intended to marry me , or not to marry me , seemed a matter of no great consequence to me ; nor did my thoughts so much as suggest to me the necessity of making any capitulation for myself , till he came to make a kind of formal proposal to me , as you shall hear presently .
thus i gave up myself to a readiness of being ruined without the least concern and am a fair memento to all young women whose vanity prevails over their virtue .
nothing was ever so stupid on both sides . had i acted as became me , and resisted as virtue and honour require , this gentleman had either desisted his attacks , finding no room to expect the accomplishment of his design , or had made fair and honourable proposals of marriage ; in which case , whoever had blamed him , nobody could have blamed me .
in short , if he had known me , and how easy the trifle he aimed at was to be had , he would have troubled his head no farther , but have given me four or five guineas , and have lain with me the next time he had come at me .
and if i had known his thoughts , and how hard he thought i would be to be gained , i might have made my own terms with him ; and if i had not capitulated for an immediate marriage , i might for a maintenance till marriage , and might have had what i would ; for he was already rich to excess , besides what he had in expectation ; but i seemed wholly to have abandoned all such thoughts as these , and was taken up only with the pride of my beauty , and of being beloved by such a gentleman . as for the gold , i spent whole hours in looking upon it ; i told the guineas over and over a thousand times a day .
never poor vain creature was so wrapt up with every part of the story as i was , not considering what was before me , and how near my ruin was at the door ; indeed , i think i rather wished for that ruin than studied to avoid it .
in the meantime , however , i was cunning enough not to give the least room to any in the family to suspect me , or to imagine that i had the least correspondence with this young gentleman .
i scarce ever looked towards him in public , or answered if he spoke to me when anybody was near us ; but for all that , we had every now and then a little encounter , where we had room for a word or two , an now and then a kiss , but no fair opportunity for the mischief intended ; and especially considering that he made more circumlocution than , if he had known by thoughts , he had occasion for ; and the work appearing difficult to him , he really made it so .
but as the devil is an unwearied tempter , so he never fails to find opportunity for that wickedness he invites to .
it was one evening that i was in the garden , with his two younger sisters and himself , and all very innocently merry , when he found means to convey a note into my hand , by which he directed me to understand that he would to-morrow desire me publicly to go of an errand for him into the town , and that i should see him somewhere by the way .
accordingly , after dinner , he very gravely says to me , his sisters being all by , ' mrs. betty , i must ask a favour of you . '
'what 's that ? ' says his second sister .
'nay , sister , ' says he very gravely , ' if you can 't spare mrs. betty to-day , any other time will do . '
yes , they said , they could spare her well enough , and the sister begged pardon for asking , which they did but of mere course , without any meaning .
'well , but , brother , ' says the eldest sister , ' you must tell mrs. betty what it is ; if it be any private business that we must not hear , you may call her out . there she is . '
'why , sister , ' says the gentleman very gravely , ' what do you mean ?
i only desire her to go into the high street ' ( and then he pulls out a turnover ) , ' to such a shop ' ; and then he tells them a long story of two fine neckcloths he had bid money for , and he wanted to have me go and make an errand to buy a neck to the turnover that he showed , to see if they would take my money for the neckcloths ; to bid a shilling more , and haggle with them ; and then he made more errands , and so continued to have such petty business to do , that i should be sure to stay a good while .
when he had given me my errands , he told them a long story of a visit he was going to make to a family they all knew , and where was to be such-and-such gentlemen , and how merry they were to be , and very formally asks his sisters to go with him , and they as formally excused themselves , because of company that they had notice was to come and visit them that afternoon ; which , by the way , he had contrived on purpose .
he had scarce done speaking to them , and giving me my errand , but his man came up to tell him that sir w---- h---- ' s coach stopped at the door ; so he runs down , and comes up again immediately .
'alas ! ' says he aloud , ' there 's all my mirth spoiled at once ; sir w---- has sent his coach for me , and desires to speak with me upon some earnest business . '
it seems this sir w---- was a gentleman who lived about three miles out of town , to whom he had spoken on purpose the day before , to lend him his chariot for a particular occasion , and had appointed it to call for him , as it did , about three o 'clock .
immediately he calls for his best wig , hat , and sword , and ordering his man to go to the other place to make his excuse-- that was to say , he made an excuse to send his man away--he prepares to go into the coach .
as he was going , he stopped a while , and speaks mighty earnestly to me about his business , and finds an opportunity to say very softly to me , ' come away , my dear , as soon as ever you can . '
i said nothing , but made a curtsy , as if i had done so to what he said in public .
in about a quarter of an hour i went out too ; i had no dress other than before , except that i had a hood , a mask , a fan , and a pair of gloves in my pocket ; so that there was not the least suspicion in the house .
he waited for me in the coach in a back-lane , which he knew i must pass by , and had directed the coachman whither to go , which was to a certain place , called mile end , where lived a confidant of his , where we went in , and where was all the convenience in the world to be as wicked as we pleased .
when we were together he began to talk very gravely to me , and to tell me he did not bring me there to betray me ; that his passion for me would not suffer him to abuse me ; that he resolved to marry me as soon as he came to his estate ; that in the meantime , if i would grant his request , he would maintain me very honourably ; and made me a thousand protestations of his sincerity and of his affection to me ; and that he would never abandon me , and as i may say , made a thousand more preambles than he need to have done .
however , as he pressed me to speak , i told him i had no reason to question the sincerity of his love to me after so many protestations , but--and there i stopped , as if i left him to guess the rest .
'but what , my dear ? ' says he . ' i guess what you mean : what if you should be with child ?
is not that it ?
why , then , ' says he , ' i 'll take care of you and provide for you , and the child too ; and that you may see i am not in jest , ' says he , ' here 's an earnest for you , ' and with that he pulls out a silk purse , with an hundred guineas in it , and gave it me . ' and i 'll give you such another , ' says he , ' every year till i marry you . '
my colour came and went , at the sight of the purse and with the fire of his proposal together , so that i could not say a word , and he easily perceived it ; so putting the purse into my bosom , i made no more resistance to him , but let him do just what he pleased , and as often as he pleased ; and thus i finished my own destruction at once , for from this day , being forsaken of my virtue and my modesty , i had nothing of value left to recommend me , either to god 's blessing or man 's assistance .
but things did not end here .
i went back to the town , did the business he publicly directed me to , and was at home before anybody thought me long . as for my gentleman , he stayed out , as he told me he would , till late at night , and there was not the least suspicion in the family either on his account or on mine .
we had , after this , frequent opportunities to repeat our crime --chiefly by his contrivance--especially at home , when his mother and the young ladies went abroad a-visiting , which he watched so narrowly as never to miss ; knowing always beforehand when they went out , and then failed not to catch me all alone , and securely enough ; so that we took our fill of our wicked pleasure for near half a year ; and yet , which was the most to my satisfaction , i was not with child .
but before this half-year was expired , his younger brother , of whom i have made some mention in the beginning of the story , falls to work with me ; and he , finding me alone in the garden one evening , begins a story of the same kind to me , made good honest professions of being in love with me , and in short , proposes fairly and honourably to marry me , and that before he made any other offer to me at all .
i was now confounded , and driven to such an extremity as the like was never known ; at least not to me . i resisted the proposal with obstinacy ; and now i began to arm myself with arguments . i laid before him the inequality of the match ; the treatment i should meet with in the family ; the ingratitude it would be to his good father and mother , who had taken me into their house upon such generous principles , and when i was in such a low condition ; and , in short , i said everything to dissuade him from his design that i could imagine , except telling him the truth , which would indeed have put an end to it all , but that i durst not think of mentioning .
but here happened a circumstance that i did not expect indeed , which put me to my shifts ; for this young gentleman , as he was plain and honest , so he pretended to nothing with me but what was so too ; and , knowing his own innocence , he was not so careful to make his having a kindness for mrs. betty a secret i the house , as his brother was . and though he did not let them know that he had talked to me about it , yet he said enough to let his sisters perceive he loved me , and his mother saw it too , which , though they took no notice of it to me , yet they did to him , an immediately i found their carriage to me altered , more than ever before .
i saw the cloud , though i did not foresee the storm . it was easy , i say , to see that their carriage to me was altered , and that it grew worse and worse every day ; till at last i got information among the servants that i should , in a very little while , be desired to remove .
i was not alarmed at the news , having a full satisfaction that i should be otherwise provided for ; and especially considering that i had reason every day to expect i should be with child , and that then i should be obliged to remove without any pretences for it .
after some time the younger gentleman took an opportunity to tell me that the kindness he had for me had got vent in the family . he did not charge me with it , he said , for he know well enough which way it came out . he told me his plain way of talking had been the occasion of it , for that he did not make his respect for me so much a secret as he might have done , and the reason was , that he was at a point , that if i would consent to have him , he would tell them all openly that he loved me , and that he intended to marry me ; that it was true his father and mother might resent it , and be unkind , but that he was now in a way to live , being bred to the law , and he did not fear maintaining me agreeable to what i should expect ; and that , in short , as he believed i would not be ashamed of him , so he was resolved not to be ashamed of me , and that he scorned to be afraid to own me now , whom he resolved to own after i was his wife , and therefore i had nothing to do but to give him my hand , and he would answer for all the rest .
i was now in a dreadful condition indeed , and now i repented heartily my easiness with the eldest brother ; not from any reflection of conscience , but from a view of the happiness i might have enjoyed , and had now made impossible ; for though i had no great scruples of conscience , as i have said , to struggle with , yet i could not think of being a whore to one brother and a wife to the other . but then it came into my thoughts that the first brother had promised to made me his wife when he came to his estate ; but i presently remembered what i had often thought of , that he had never spoken a word of having me for a wife after he had conquered me for a mistress ; and indeed , till now , though i said i thought of it often , yet it gave me no disturbance at all , for as he did not seem in the least to lessen his affection to me , so neither did he lessen his bounty , though he had the discretion himself to desire me not to lay out a penny of what he gave me in clothes , or to make the least show extraordinary , because it would necessarily give jealousy in the family , since everybody know i could come at such things no manner of ordinary way , but by some private friendship , which they would presently have suspected . but i was now in a great strait , and knew not what to do . the main difficulty was this : the younger brother not only laid close siege to me , but suffered it to be seen .
he would come into his sister 's room , and his mother 's room , and sit down , and talk a thousand kind things of me , and to me , even before their faces , and when they were all there . this grew so public that the whole house talked of it , and his mother reproved him for it , and their carriage to me appeared quite altered . in short , his mother had let fall some speeches , as if she intended to put me out of the family ; that is , in english , to turn me out of doors .
now i was sure this could not be a secret to his brother , only that he might not think , as indeed nobody else yet did , that the youngest brother had made any proposal to me about it ; but as i easily could see that it would go farther , so i saw likewise there was an absolute necessity to speak of it to him , or that he would speak of it to me , and which to do first i knew not ; that is , whether i should break it to him or let it alone till he should break it to me .
upon serious consideration , for indeed now i began to consider things very seriously , and never till now ; i say , upon serious consideration , i resolved to tell him of it first ; and it was not long before i had an opportunity , for the very next day his brother went to london upon some business , and the family being out a-visiting , just as it had happened before , and as indeed was often the case , he came according to his custom , to spend an hour or two with mrs. betty .
when he came had had sat down a while , he easily perceived there was an alteration in my countenance , that i was not so free and pleasant with him as i used to be , and particularly , that i had been a-crying ; he was not long before he took notice of it , and asked me in very kind terms what was the matter , and if anything troubled me .
i would have put it off if i could , but it was not to be concealed ; so after suffering many importunities to draw that out of me which i longed as much as possible to disclose , i told him that it was true something did trouble me , and something of such a nature that i could not conceal from him , and yet that i could not tell how to tell him of it neither ; that it was a thing that not only surprised me , but greatly perplexed me , and that i knew not what course to take , unless he would direct me .
he told me with great tenderness , that let it be what it would , i should not let it trouble me , for he would protect me from all the world .
i then began at a distance , and told him i was afraid the ladies had got some secret information of our correspondence ; for that it was easy to see that their conduct was very much changed towards me for a great while , and that now it was come to that pass that they frequently found fault with me , and sometimes fell quite out with me , though i never gave them the least occasion ; that whereas i used always to lie with the eldest sister , i was lately put to lie by myself , or with one of the maids ; and that i had overheard them several times talking very unkindly about me ; but that which confirmed it all was , that one of the servants had told me that she had heard i was to be turned out , and that it was not safe for the family that i should be any longer in the house .
he smiled when he herd all this , and i asked him how he could make so light of it , when he must needs know that if there was any discovery i was undone for ever , and that even it would hurt him , though not ruin him as it would me .
i upbraided him , that he was like all the rest of the sex , that , when they had the character and honour of a woman at their mercy , oftentimes made it their jest , and at least looked upon it as a trifle , and counted the ruin of those they had had their will of as a thing of no value .
he saw me warm and serious , and he changed his style immediately ; he told me he was sorry i should have such a thought of him ; that he had never given me the least occasion for it , but had been as tender of my reputation as he could be of his own ; that he was sure our correspondence had been managed with so much address , that not one creature in the family had so much as a suspicion of it ; that if he smiled when i told him my thoughts , it was at the assurance he lately received , that our understanding one another was not so much as known or guessed at ; and that when he had told me how much reason he had to be easy , i should smile as he did , for he was very certain it would give me a full satisfaction .
'this is a mystery i cannot understand , ' says i , ' or how it should be to my satisfaction that i am to be turned out of doors ; for if our correspondence is not discovered , i know not what else i have done to change the countenances of the whole family to me , or to have them treat me as they do now , who formerly used me with so much tenderness , as if i had been one of their own children . '
'why , look you , child , ' says he , ' that they are uneasy about you , that is true ; but that they have the least suspicion of the case as it is , and as it respects you and i , is so far from being true , that they suspect my brother robin ; and , in short , they are fully persuaded he makes love to you ; nay , the fool has put it into their heads too himself , for he is continually bantering them about it , and making a jest of himself .
i confess i think he is wrong to do so , because he cannot but see it vexes them , and makes them unkind to you ; but ' tis a satisfaction to me , because of the assurance it gives me , that they do not suspect me in the least , and i hope this will be to your satisfaction too . '
'so it is , ' says i , ' one way ; but this does not reach my case at all , nor is this the chief thing that troubles me , though i have been concerned about that too . '
'what is it , then ? ' says he .
with which i fell to tears , and could say nothing to him at all . he strove to pacify me all he could , but began at last to be very pressing upon me to tell what it was . at last i answered that i thought i ought to tell him too , and that he had some right to know it ; besides , that i wanted his direction in the case , for i was in such perplexity that i knew not what course to take , and then i related the whole affair to him . i told him how imprudently his brother had managed himself , in making himself so public ; for that if he had kept it a secret , as such a thing out to have been , i could but have denied him positively , without giving any reason for it , and he would in time have ceased his solicitations ; but that he had the vanity , first , to depend upon it that i would not deny him , and then had taken the freedom to tell his resolution of having me to the whole house .
i told him how far i had resisted him , and told him how sincere and honourable his offers were .
'but , ' says i , ' my case will be doubly hard ; for as they carry it ill to me now , because he desires to have me , they 'll carry it worse when they shall find i have denied him ; and they will presently say , there 's something else in it , and then out it comes that i am married already to somebody else , or that i would never refuse a match so much above me as this was . '
this discourse surprised him indeed very much . he told me that it was a critical point indeed for me to manage , and he did not see which way i should get out of it ; but he would consider it , and let me know next time we met , what resolution he was come to about it ; and in the meantime desired i would not give my consent to his brother , nor yet give him a flat denial , but that i would hold him in suspense a while .
i seemed to start at his saying i should not give him my consent . i told him he knew very well i had no consent to give ; that he had engaged himself to marry me , and that my consent was the same time engaged to him ; that he had all along told me i was his wife , and i looked upon myself as effectually so as if the ceremony had passed ; and that it was from his own mouth that i did so , he having all along persuaded me to call myself his wife .
'well , my dear , ' says he , ' don 't be concerned at that now ; if i am not your husband , i 'll be as good as a husband to you ; and do not let those things trouble you now , but let me look a little farther into this affair , and i shall be able to say more next time we meet . '
he pacified me as well as he could with this , but i found he was very thoughtful , and that though he was very kind to me and kissed me a thousand times , and more i believe , and gave me money too , yet he offered no more all the while we were together , which was above two hours , and which i much wondered at indeed at that time , considering how it used to be , and what opportunity we had .
his brother did not come from london for five or six days , and it was two days more before he got an opportunity to talk with him ; but then getting him by himself he began to talk very close to him about it , and the same evening got an opportunity ( for we had a long conference together ) to repeat all their discourse to me , which , as near as i can remember , was to the purpose following .
he told him he heard strange news of him since he went , viz. that he made love to mrs. betty .
'well , says his brother a little angrily , ' and so i do . and what then ?
what has anybody to do with that ? '
'nay , ' says his brother , ' don 't be angry , robin ; i don 't pretend to have anything to do with it ; nor do i pretend to be angry with you about it . but i find they do concern themselves about it , and that they have used the poor girl ill about it , which i should take as done to myself . '
'whom do you mean by they ? ' says robin .
'i mean my mother and the girls , ' says the elder brother .
'but hark ye , ' says his brother , ' are you in earnest ? do you really love this girl ?
you may be free with me , you know . ' ' why , then , ' says robin , ' i will be free with you ; i do love her above all the women in the world , and i will have her , let them say and do what they will . i believe the girl will not deny me . '
it struck me to the heart when he told me this , for though it was most rational to think i would not deny him , yet i knew in my own conscience i must deny him , and i saw my ruin in my being obliged to do so ; but i knew it was my business to talk otherwise then , so i interrupted him in his story thus .
'ay ! ' said i , ' does he think i cannot deny him ? but he shall find i can deny him , for all that . '
'well , my dear , ' says he , ' but let me give you the whole story as it went on between us , and then say what you will . '
then he went on and told me that he replied thus : ' but , brother , you know she has nothing , and you may have several ladies with good fortunes . '
" tis no matter for that , ' said robin ; ' i love the girl , and i will never please my pocket in marrying , and not please my fancy . '
'and so , my dear , ' adds he , ' there is no opposing him . '
'yes , yes , ' says i , ' you shall see i can oppose him ; i have learnt to say no , now though i had not learnt it before ; if the best lord in the land offered me marriage now , i could very cheerfully say no to him . '
'well , but , my dear , ' says he , ' what can you say to him ?
you know , as you said when we talked of it before , he well ask you many questions about it , and all the house will wonder what the meaning of it should be . '
'why , ' says i , smiling , ' i can stop all their mouths at one clap by telling him , and them too , that i am married already to his elder brother . '
he smiled a little too at the word , but i could see it startled him , and he could not hide the disorder it put him into .
however , he returned , ' why , though that may be true in some sense , yet i suppose you are but in jest when you talk of giving such an answer as that ; it may not be convenient on many accounts . '
'no , no , ' says i pleasantly , ' i am not so fond of letting the secret come out without your consent . '
'but what , then , can you say to him , or to them , ' says he , ' when they find you positive against a match which would be apparently so much to your advantage ? '
'why , ' says i , ' should i be at a loss ?
first of all , i am not obliged to give me any reason at all ; on the other hand , i may tell them i am married already , and stop there , and that will be a full stop too to him , for he can have no reason to ask one question after it . '
'ay , ' says he ; ' but the whole house will tease you about that , even to father and mother , and if you deny them positively , they will be disobliged at you , and suspicious besides . '
'why , ' says i , ' what can i do ?
what would have me do ?
i was in straight enough before , and as i told you , i was in perplexity before , and acquainted you with the circumstances , that i might have your advice . '
'my dear , ' says he , ' i have been considering very much upon it , you may be sure , and though it is a piece of advice that has a great many mortifications in it to me , and may at first seem strange to you , yet , all things considered , i see no better way for you than to let him go on ; and if you find him hearty and in earnest , marry him . '
i gave him a look full of horror at those words , and , turning pale as death , was at the very point of sinking down out of the chair i sat in ; when , giving a start , ' my dear , ' says he aloud , ' what 's the matter with you ? where are you a-going ? ' and a great many such things ; and with jogging and called to me , fetched me a little to myself , though it was a good while before i fully recovered my senses , and was not able to speak for several minutes more .
when i was fully recovered he began again .
'my dear , ' says he , ' what made you so surprised at what i said ? i would have you consider seriously of it ? you may see plainly how the family stand in this case , and they would be stark mad if it was my case , as it is my brother 's ; and for aught i see , it would be my ruin and yours too . '
'ay ! ' says i , still speaking angrily ; ' are all your protestations and vows to be shaken by the dislike of the family ?
did i not always object that to you , and you made light thing of it , as what you were above , and would value ; and is it come to this now ? ' said i .
'is this your faith and honour , your love , and the solidity of your promises ? '
he continued perfectly calm , notwithstanding all my reproaches , and i was not sparing of them at all ; but he replied at last , ' my dear , i have not broken one promise with you yet ; i did tell you i would marry you when i was come to my estate ; but you see my father is a hale , healthy man , and may live these thirty years still , and not be older than several are round us in town ; and you never proposed my marrying you sooner , because you knew it might be my ruin ; and as to all the rest , i have not failed you in anything , you have wanted for nothing . '
i could not deny a word of this , and had nothing to say to it in general .
'but why , then , ' says i , ' can you persuade me to such a horrid step as leaving you , since you have not left me ?
will you allow no affection , no love on my side , where there has been so much on your side ?
have i made you no returns ?
have i given no testimony of my sincerity and of my passion ?
are the sacrifices i have made of honour and modesty to you no proof of my being tied to you in bonds too strong to be broken ? '
'but here , my dear , ' says he , ' you may come into a safe station , and appear with honour and with splendour at once , and the remembrance of what we have done may be wrapt up in an eternal silence , as if it had never happened ; you shall always have my respect , and my sincere affection , only then it shall be honest , and perfectly just to my brother ; you shall be my dear sister , as now you are my dear---- ' and there he stopped .
'your dear whore , ' says i , ' you would have said if you had gone on , and you might as well have said it ; but i understand you . however , i desire you to remember the long discourses you have had with me , and the many hours ' pains you have taken to persuade me to believe myself an honest woman ; that i was your wife intentionally , though not in the eyes of the world , and that it was as effectual a marriage that had passed between us as is we had been publicly wedded by the parson of the parish .
you know and cannot but remember that these have been your own words to me . ' i found this was a little too close upon him , but i made it up in what follows .
he stood stock-still for a while and said nothing , and i went on thus : ' you cannot , ' says i , ' without the highest injustice , believe that i yielded upon all these persuasions without a love not to be questioned , not to be shaken again by anything that could happen afterward . if you have such dishonourable thoughts of me , i must ask you what foundation in any of my behaviour have i given for such a suggestion ?
'if , then , i have yielded to the importunities of my affection , and if i have been persuaded to believe that i am really , and in the essence of the thing , your wife , shall i now give the lie to all those arguments and call myself your whore , or mistress , which is the same thing ?
and will you transfer me to your brother ?
can you transfer my affection ?
can you bid me cease loving you , and bid me love him ?
it is in my power , think you , to make such a change at demand ?
no , sir , ' said i , ' depend upon it ' tis impossible , and whatever the change of your side may be , i will ever be true ; and i had much rather , since it is come that unhappy length , be your whore than your brother 's wife . '
he appeared pleased and touched with the impression of this last discourse , and told me that he stood where he did before ; that he had not been unfaithful to me in any one promise he had ever made yet , but that there were so many terrible things presented themselves to his view in the affair before me , and that on my account in particular , that he had thought of the other as a remedy so effectual as nothing could come up to it . that he thought this would not be entire parting us , but we might love as friends all our days , and perhaps with more satisfaction than we should in the station we were now in , as things might happen ; that he durst say , i could not apprehend anything from him as to betraying a secret , which could not but be the destruction of us both , if it came out ; that he had but one question to ask of me that could lie in the way of it , and if that question was answered in the negative , he could not but think still it was the only step i could take .
i guessed at his question presently , namely , whether i was sure i was not with child ?
as to that , i told him he need not be concerned about it , for i was not with child .
'why , then , my dear , ' says he , ' we have no time to talk further now . consider of it , and think closely about it ; i cannot but be of the opinion still , that it will be the best course you can take . '
and with this he took his leave , and the more hastily too , his mother and sisters ringing at the gate , just at the moment that he had risen up to go .
he left me in the utmost confusion of thought ; and he easily perceived it the next day , and all the rest of the week , for it was but tuesday evening when we talked ; but he had no opportunity to come at me all that week , till the sunday after , when i , being indisposed , did not go to church , and he , making some excuse for the like , stayed at home .
and now he had me an hour and a half again by myself , and we fell into the same arguments all over again , or at least so near the same , as it would be to no purpose to repeat them . at last i asked him warmly , what opinion he must have of my modesty , that he could suppose i should so much as entertain a thought of lying with two brothers , and assured him it could never be . i added , if he was to tell me that he would never see me more , than which nothing but death could be more terrible , yet i could never entertain a thought so dishonourable to myself , and so base to him ; and therefore , i entreated him , if he had one grain of respect or affection left for me , that he would speak no more of it to me , or that he would pull his sword out and kill me .
he appeared surprised at my obstinacy , as he called it ; told me i was unkind to myself , and unkind to him in it ; that it was a crisis unlooked for upon us both , and impossible for either of us to foresee , but that he did not see any other way to save us both from ruin , and therefore he thought it the more unkind ; but that if he must say no more of it to me , he added with an unusual coldness , that he did not know anything else we had to talk of ; and so he rose up to take his leave . i rose up too , as if with the same indifference ; but when he came to give me as it were a parting kiss , i burst out into such a passion of crying , that though i would have spoke , i could not , and only pressing his hand , seemed to give him the adieu , but cried vehemently .
he was sensibly moved with this ; so he sat down again , and said a great many kind things to me , to abate the excess of my passion , but still urged the necessity of what he had proposed ; all the while insisting , that if i did refuse , he would notwithstanding provide for me ; but letting me plainly see that he would decline me in the main point--nay , even as a mistress ; making it a point of honour not to lie with the woman that , for aught he knew , might come to be his brother 's wife .
the bare loss of him as a gallant was not so much my affliction as the loss of his person , whom indeed i loved to distraction ; and the loss of all the expectations i had , and which i always had built my hopes upon , of having him one day for my husband . these things oppressed my mind so much , that , in short , i fell very ill ; the agonies of my mind , in a word , threw me into a high fever , and long it was , that none in the family expected my life .
i was reduced very low indeed , and was often delirious and light-headed ; but nothing lay so near me as the fear that , when i was light-headed , i should say something or other to his prejudice .
i was distressed in my mind also to see him , and so he was to see me , for he really loved me most passionately ; but it could not be ; there was not the least room to desire it on one side or other , or so much as to make it decent .
it was near five weeks that i kept my bed and though the violence of my fever abated in three weeks , yet it several times returned ; and the physicians said two or three times , they could do no more for me , but that they must leave nature and the distemper to fight it out , only strengthening the first with cordials to maintain the struggle . after the end of five weeks i grew better , but was so weak , so altered , so melancholy , and recovered so slowly , that they physicians apprehended i should go into a consumption ; and which vexed me most , they gave it as their opinion that my mind was oppressed , that something troubled me , and , in short , that i was in love .
upon this , the whole house was set upon me to examine me , and to press me to tell whether i was in love or not , and with whom ; but as i well might , i denied my being in love at all .
they had on this occasion a squabble one day about me at table , that had like to have put the whole family in an uproar , and for some time did so .
they happened to be all at table but the father ; as for me , i was ill , and in my chamber . at the beginning of the talk , which was just as they had finished their dinner , the old gentlewoman , who had sent me somewhat to eat , called her maid to go up and ask me if i would have any more ; but the maid brought down word i had not eaten half what she had sent me already .
'alas , says the old lady , ' that poor girl !
i am afraid she will never be well . '
'well ! ' says the elder brother , ' how should mrs. betty be well ? they say she is in love . '
'i believe nothing of it , ' says the old gentlewoman .
'i don 't know , ' says the eldest sister , ' what to say to it ; they have made such a rout about her being so handsome , and so charming , and i know not what , and that in her hearing too , that has turned the creature 's head , i believe , and who knows what possessions may follow such doings ? for my part , i don 't know what to make of it . '
'why , sister , you must acknowledge she is very handsome , ' says the elder brother .
'ay , and a great deal handsomer than you , sister , ' says robin , ' and that 's your mortification . '
'well , well , that is not the question , ' says his sister ; ' that girl is well enough , and she knows it well enough ; she need not be told of it to make her vain . '
'we are not talking of her being vain , ' says the elder brother , ' but of her being in love ; it may be she is in love with herself ; it seems my sisters think so . '
'i would she was in love with me , ' says robin ; ' i 'd quickly put her out of her pain . '
'what d 'ye mean by that , son , ' says the old lady ; ' how can you talk so ? '
'why , madam , ' says robin , again , very honestly , ' do you think i 'd let the poor girl die for love , and of one that is near at hand to be had , too ? '
'fie , brother ! ' , says the second sister , ' how can you talk so ?
would you take a creature that has not a groat in the world ? '
'prithee , child , ' says robin , ' beauty 's a portion , and good-humour with it is a double portion ; i wish thou hadst half her stock of both for thy portion . '
so there was her mouth stopped .
'i find , ' says the eldest sister , ' if betty is not in love , my brother is . i wonder he has not broke his mind to betty ; i warrant she won 't say no . '
'they that yield when they 're asked , ' says robin , ' are one step before them that were never asked to yield , sister , and two steps before them that yield before they are asked ; and that 's an answer to you , sister . '
this fired the sister , and she flew into a passion , and said , things were come to that pass that it was time the wench , meaning me , was out of the family ; and but that she was not fit to be turned out , she hoped her father and mother would consider of it as soon as she could be removed .
robin replied , that was business for the master and mistress of the family , who where not to be taught by one that had so little judgment as his eldest sister .
it ran up a great deal farther ; the sister scolded , robin rallied and bantered , but poor betty lost ground by it extremely in the family .
i heard of it , and i cried heartily , and the old lady came up to me , somebody having told her that i was so much concerned about it .
i complained to her , that it was very hard the doctors should pass such a censure upon me , for which they had no ground ; and that it was still harder , considering the circumstances i was under in the family ; that i hoped i had done nothing to lessen her esteem for me , or given any occasion for the bickering between her sons and daughters , and i had more need to think of a coffin than of being in love , and begged she would not let me suffer in her opinion for anybody 's mistakes but my own .
she was sensible of the justice of what i said , but told me , since there had been such a clamour among them , and that her younger son talked after such a rattling way as he did , she desired i would be so faithful to her as to answer her but one question sincerely .
i told her i would , with all my heart , and with the utmost plainness and sincerity .
why , then , the question was , whether there way anything between her son robert and me .
i told her with all the protestations of sincerity that i was able to make , and as i might well , do , that there was not , nor every had been ; i told her that mr. robert had rattled and jested , as she knew it was his way , and that i took it always , as i supposed he meant it , to be a wild airy way of discourse that had no signification in it ; and again assured her , that there was not the least tittle of what she understood by it between us ; and that those who had suggested it had done me a great deal of wrong , and mr. robert no service at all .
the old lady was fully satisfied , and kissed me , spoke cheerfully to me , and bid me take care of my health and want for nothing , and so took her leave . but when she came down she found the brother and all his sisters together by the ears ; they were angry , even to passion , at his upbraiding them with their being homely , and having never had any sweethearts , never having been asked the question , and their being so forward as almost to ask first . he rallied them upon the subject of mrs. betty ; how pretty , how good-humoured , how she sung better then they did , and danced better , and how much handsomer she was ; and in doing this he omitted no ill-natured thing that could vex them , and indeed , pushed too hard upon them .
the old lady came down in the height of it , and to put a stop it to , told them all the discourse she had had with me , and how i answered , that there was nothing between mr. robert and i .
'she 's wrong there , ' says robin , ' for if there was not a great deal between us , we should be closer together than we are . i told her i loved her hugely , ' says he , ' but i could never make the jade believe i was in earnest . '
'i do not know how you should , ' says his mother ; ' nobody in their senses could believe you were in earnest , to talk so to a poor girl , whose circumstances you know so well .
'but prithee , son , ' adds she , ' since you tell me that you could not make her believe you were in earnest , what must we believe about it ?
for you ramble so in your discourse , that nobody knows whether you are in earnest or in jest ; but as i find the girl , by your own confession , has answered truly , i wish you would do so too , and tell me seriously , so that i may depend upon it . is there anything in it or no ?
are you in earnest or no ?
are you distracted , indeed , or are you not ?
'tis a weighty question , and i wish you would make us easy about it . '
'by my faith , madam , ' says robin , " tis in vain to mince the matter or tell any more lies about it ; i am in earnest , as much as a man is that 's going to be hanged .
if mrs. betty would say she loved me , and that she would marry me , i 'd have her tomorrow morning fasting , and say , ' to have and to hold , ' instead of eating my breakfast . '
'well , ' says the mother , ' then there 's one son lost ' ; and she said it in a very mournful tone , as one greatly concerned at it .
'i hope not , madam , ' says robin ; ' no man is lost when a good wife has found him . '
'why , but , child , ' says the old lady , ' she is a beggar . '
'why , then , madam , she has the more need of charity , ' says robin ; ' i 'll take her off the hands of the parish , and she and i 'll beg together . '
'it 's bad jesting with such things , ' says the mother .
'i don 't jest , madam , ' says robin . ' we 'll come and beg your pardon , madam ; and your blessing , madam , and my father 's . '
'this is all out of the way , son , ' says the mother . ' if you are in earnest you are undone . '
'i am afraid not , ' says he , ' for i am really afraid she won 't have me ; after all my sister 's huffing and blustering , i believe i shall never be able to persuade her to it . '
'that 's a fine tale , indeed ; she is not so far out of her senses neither . mrs. betty is no fool , ' says the younger sister . ' do you think she has learnt to say no , any more than other people ? '
'no , mrs. mirth-wit , ' says robin , ' mrs. betty 's no fool ; but mrs. betty may be engaged some other way , and what then ? '
'nay , ' says the eldest sister , ' we can say nothing to that . who must it be to , then ? she is never out of the doors ; it must be between you . '
'i have nothing to say to that , ' says robin .
'i have been examined enough ; there 's my brother . if it must be between us , go to work with him . '
this stung the elder brother to the quick , and he concluded that robin had discovered something . however , he kept himself from appearing disturbed .
'prithee , ' says he , ' don 't go to shame your stories off upon me ; i tell you , i deal in no such ware ; i have nothing to say to mrs. betty , nor to any of the mrs. bettys in the parish ' ; and with that he rose up and brushed off .
'no , ' says the eldest sister , ' i dare answer for my brother ; he knows the world better . '
thus the discourse ended , but it left the elder brother quite confounded .
he concluded his brother had made a full discovery , and he began to doubt whether i had been concerned in it or not ; but with all his management he could not bring it about to get at me . at last he was so perplexed that he was quite desperate , and resolved he would come into my chamber and see me , whatever came of it .
in order to do this , he contrived it so , that one day after dinner , watching his eldest sister till he could see her go upstairs , he runs after her .
'hark ye , sister , ' says he , ' where is this sick woman ?
may not a body see her ? '
'yes , ' says the sister , ' i believe you may ; but let me go first a little , and i 'll tell you . '
so she ran up to the door and gave me notice , and presently called to him again .
'brother , ' says she , ' you may come if you please . '
so in he came , just in the same kind of rant .
'well , ' says he at the door as he came in , ' where is this sick body that 's in love ?
how do ye do , mrs. betty ? '
i would have got up out of my chair , but was so weak i could not for a good while ; and he saw it , and his sister to , and she said , ' come , do not strive to stand up ; my brother desires no ceremony , especially now you are so weak . '
'no , no , mrs. betty , pray sit still , ' says he , and so sits himself down in a chair over against me , and appeared as if he was mighty merry .
he talked a lot of rambling stuff to his sister and to me , sometimes of one thing , sometimes of another , on purpose to amuse his sister , and every now and then would turn it upon the old story , directing it to me .
'poor mrs. betty , ' says he , ' it is a sad thing to be in love ; why , it has reduced you sadly . '
at last i spoke a little .
'i am glad to see you so merry , sir , ' says i ; ' but i think the doctor might have found something better to do than to make his game at his patients . if i had been ill of no other distemper , i know the proverb too well to have let him come to me . '
'what proverb ? ' says he , ' oh ! i remember it now .
what-- " where love is the case , the doctor 's an ass . "
is not that it , mrs. betty ? '
i smiled and said nothing .
'nay , ' says he , ' i think the effect has proved it to be love , for it seems the doctor has been able to do you but little service ; you mend very slowly , they say . i doubt there 's somewhat in it , mrs. betty ; i doubt you are sick of the incurables , and that is love . '
i smiled and said , ' no , indeed , sir , that 's none of my distemper . '
we had a deal of such discourse , and sometimes others that signified as little . by and by he asked me to sing them a song , at which i smiled , and said my singing days were over .
at last he asked me if he should play upon his flute to me ; his sister said she believe it would hurt me , and that my head could not bear it . i bowed , and said , no , it would not hurt me .
'and , pray , madam . ' said i , ' do not hinder it ; i love the music of the flute very much . '
then his sister said , ' well , do , then , brother . '
with that he pulled out the key of his closet .
'dear sister , ' says he , ' i am very lazy ; do step to my closet and fetch my flute ; it lies in such a drawer , ' naming a place where he was sure it was not , that she might be a little while a-looking for it .
as soon as she was gone , he related the whole story to me of the discourse his brother had about me , and of his pushing it at him , and his concern about it , which was the reason of his contriving this visit to me .
i assured him i had never opened my mouth either to his brother or to anybody else . i told him the dreadful exigence i was in ; that my love to him , and his offering to have me forget that affection and remove it to another , had thrown me down ; and that i had a thousand times wished i might die rather than recover , and to have the same circumstances to struggle with as i had before , and that his backwardness to life had been the great reason of the slowness of my recovering .
i added that i foresaw that as soon as i was well , i must quit the family , and that as for marrying his brother , i abhorred the thoughts of it after what had been my case with him , and that he might depend upon it i would never see his brother again upon that subject ; that if he would break all his vows and oaths and engagements with me , be that between his conscience and his honour and himself ; but he should never be able to say that i , whom he had persuaded to call myself his wife , and who had given him the liberty to use me as a wife , was not as faithful to him as a wife ought to be , whatever he might be to me .
he was going to reply , and had said that he was sorry i could not be persuaded , and was a-going to say more , but he heard his sister a-coming , and so did i ; and yet i forced out these few words as a reply , that i could never be persuaded to love one brother and marry another .
he shook his head and said , ' then i am ruined , ' meaning himself ; and that moment his sister entered the room and told him she could not find the flute .
'well , ' says he merrily , ' this laziness won 't do ' ; so he gets up and goes himself to go to look for it , but comes back without it too ; not but that he could have found it , but because his mind was a little disturbed , and he had no mind to play ; and , besides , the errand he sent his sister on was answered another way ; for he only wanted an opportunity to speak to me , which he gained , though not much to his satisfaction .
i had , however , a great deal of satisfaction in having spoken my mind to him with freedom , and with such an honest plainness , as i have related ; and though it did not at all work the way i desired , that is to say , to oblige the person to me the more , yet it took from him all possibility of quitting me but by a downright breach of honour , and giving up all the faith of a gentleman to me , which he had so often engaged by , never to abandon me , but to make me his wife as soon as he came to his estate .
it was not many weeks after this before i was about the house again , and began to grow well ; but i continued melancholy , silent , dull , and retired , which amazed the whole family , except he that knew the reason of it ; yet it was a great while before he took any notice of it , and i , as backward to speak as he , carried respectfully to him , but never offered to speak a word to him that was particular of any kind whatsoever ; and this continued for sixteen or seventeen weeks ; so that , as i expected every day to be dismissed the family , on account of what distaste they had taken another way , in which i had no guilt , so i expected to hear no more of this gentleman , after all his solemn vows and protestations , but to be ruined and abandoned .
at last i broke the way myself in the family for my removing ; for being talking seriously with the old lady one day , about my own circumstances in the world , and how my distemper had left a heaviness upon my spirits , that i was not the same thing i was before , the old lady said , ' i am afraid , betty , what i have said to you about my son has had some influence upon you , and that you are melancholy on his account ; pray , will you let me know how the matter stands with you both , if it may not be improper ? for , as for robin , he does nothing but rally and banter when i speak of it to him . '
'why , truly , madam , ' said i ' that matter stands as i wish it did not , and i shall be very sincere with you in it , whatever befalls me for it .
mr. robert has several times proposed marriage to me , which is what i had no reason to expect , my poor circumstances considered ; but i have always resisted him , and that perhaps in terms more positive than became me , considering the regard that i ought to have for every branch of your family ; but , ' said i , ' madam , i could never so far forget my obligation to you and all your house , to offer to consent to a thing which i know must needs be disobliging to you , and this i have made my argument to him , and have positively told him that i would never entertain a thought of that kind unless i had your consent , and his father 's also , to whom i was bound by so many invincible obligations . '
'and is this possible , mrs. betty ? ' says the old lady .
'then you have been much juster to us than we have been to you ; for we have all looked upon you as a kind of snare to my son , and i had a proposal to make to you for your removing , for fear of it ; but i had not yet mentioned it to you , because i thought you were not thorough well , and i was afraid of grieving you too much , lest it should throw you down again ; for we have all a respect for you still , though not so much as to have it be the ruin of my son ; but if it be as you say , we have all wronged you very much . '
'as to the truth of what i say , madam , ' said i , ' refer you to your son himself ; if he will do me any justice , he must tell you the story just as i have told it . ' away goes the old lady to her daughters and tells them the whole story , just as i had told it her ; and they were surprised at it , you may be sure , as i believed they would be .
one said she could never have thought it ; another said robin was a fool ; a third said she would not believe a word of it , and she would warrant that robin would tell the story another way . but the old gentlewoman , who was resolved to go to the bottom of it before i could have the least opportunity of acquainting her son with what had passed , resolved too that she would talk with her son immediately , and to that purpose sent for him , for he was gone but to a lawyer 's house in the town , upon some petty business of his own , and upon her sending he returned immediately .
upon his coming up to them , for they were all still together , ' sit down , robin , ' says the old lady , ' i must have some talk with you . '
'with all my heart , madam , ' says robin , looking very merry .
'i hope it is about a good wife , for i am at a great loss in that affair . '
'how can that be ? ' says his mother ; ' did not you say you resolved to have mrs. betty ? '
'ay , madam , ' says robin , ' but there is one has forbid the banns . '
'forbid , the banns ! ' says his mother ; ' who can that be ? '
'even mrs. betty herself , ' says robin .
'how so ? ' says his mother . ' have you asked her the question , then ? '
'yes , indeed , madam , ' says robin . ' i have attacked her in form five times since she was sick , and am beaten off ; the jade is so stout she won 't capitulate nor yield upon any terms , except such as i cannot effectually grant . '
'explain yourself , ' says the mother , ' for i am surprised ; i do not understand you . i hope you are not in earnest . '
'why , madam , ' says he , ' the case is plain enough upon me , it explains itself ; she won 't have me , she says ; is not that plain enough ?
i think ' tis plain , and pretty rough too . '
'well , but , ' says the mother , ' you talk of conditions that you cannot grant ; what does she want--a settlement ?
her jointure ought to be according to her portion ; but what fortune does she bring you ? '
'nay , as to fortune , ' says robin , ' she is rich enough ; i am satisfied in that point ; but ' tis i that am not able to come up to her terms , and she is positive she will not have me without . '
here the sisters put in .
'madam , ' says the second sister , " tis impossible to be serious with him ; he will never give a direct answer to anything ; you had better let him alone , and talk no more of it to him ; you know how to dispose of her out of his way if you thought there was anything in it . '
robin was a little warmed with his sister 's rudeness , but he was even with her , and yet with good manners too .
'there are two sorts of people , madam , ' says he , turning to his mother , ' that there is no contending with ; that is , a wise body and a fool ; ' tis a little hard i should engage with both of them together . '
the younger sister then put in .
'we must be fools indeed , ' says she , ' in my brother 's opinion , that he should think we can believe he has seriously asked mrs. betty to marry him , and that she has refused him . '
'answer , and answer not , say solomon , ' replied her brother . ' when your brother had said to your mother that he had asked her no less than five times , and that it was so , that she positively denied him , methinks a younger sister need not question the truth of it when her mother did not . '
'my mother , you see , did not understand it , ' says the second sister .
'there 's some difference , ' says robin , ' between desiring me to explain it , and telling me she did not believe it . '
'well , but , son , ' says the old lady , ' if you are disposed to let us into the mystery of it , what were these hard conditions ? '
'yes , madam , ' says robin , ' i had done it before now , if the teasers here had not worried my by way of interruption .
the conditions are , that i bring my father and you to consent to it , and without that she protests she will never see me more upon that head ; and to these conditions , as i said , i suppose i shall never be able to grant .
i hope my warm sisters will be answered now , and blush a little ; if not , i have no more to say till i hear further . ' this answer was surprising to them all , though less to the mother , because of what i had said to her .
as to the daughters , they stood mute a great while ; but the mother said with some passion , ' well , i had heard this before , but i could not believe it ; but if it is so , they we have all done betty wrong , and she has behaved better than i ever expected . '
'nay , ' says the eldest sister , ' if it be so , she has acted handsomely indeed . '
'i confess , ' says the mother , ' it was none of her fault , if he was fool enough to take a fancy to her ; but to give such an answer to him , shows more respect to your father and me than i can tell how to express ; i shall value the girl the better for it as long as i know her . '
'but i shall not , ' says robin , ' unless you will give your consent . '
'i 'll consider of that a while , ' says the mother ; ' i assure you , if there were not some other objections in the way , this conduct of hers would go a great way to bring me to consent . '
'i wish it would go quite through it , ' says robin ; ' if you had a much thought about making me easy as you have about making me rich , you would soon consent to it . '
'why , robin , ' says the mother again , ' are you really in earnest ? would you so fain have her as you pretend ? '
'really , madam , ' says robin , ' i think ' tis hard you should question me upon that head after all i have said . i won 't say that i will have her ; how can i resolve that point , when you see i cannot have her without your consent ? besides , i am not bound to marry at all . but this i will say , i am in earnest in , that i will never have anybody else if i can help it ; so you may determine for me . betty or nobody is the word , and the question which of the two shall be in your breast to decide , madam , provided only , that my good-humoured sisters here may have no vote in it . '
all this was dreadful to me , for the mother began to yield , and robin pressed her home on it .
on the other hand , she advised with the eldest son , and he used all the arguments in the world to persuade her to consent ; alleging his brother 's passionate love for me , and my generous regard to the family , in refusing my own advantages upon such a nice point of honour , and a thousand such things .
and as to the father , he was a man in a hurry of public affairs and getting money , seldom at home , thoughtful of the main chance , but left all those things to his wife .
you may easily believe , that when the plot was thus , as they thought , broke out , and that every one thought they knew how things were carried , it was not so difficult or so dangerous for the elder brother , whom nobody suspected of anything , to have a freer access to me than before ; nay , the mother , which was just as he wished , proposed it to him to talk with mrs. betty .
'for it may be , son , ' said she , ' you may see farther into the thing than i , and see if you think she has been so positive as robin says she has been , or no . '
this was as well as he could wish , and he , as it were , yielding to talk with me at his mother 's request , she brought me to him into her own chamber , told me her son had some business with me at her request , and desired me to be very sincere with him , and then she left us together , and he went and shut the door after her .
he came back to me and took me in his arms , and kissed me very tenderly ; but told me he had a long discourse to hold with me , and it was not come to that crisis , that i should make myself happy or miserable as long as i lived ; that the thing was now gone so far , that if i could not comply with his desire , we would both be ruined .
then he told the whole story between robin , as he called him , and his mother and sisters and himself , as it is above .
'and now , dear child , ' says he , ' consider what it will be to marry a gentleman of a good family , in good circumstances , and with the consent of the whole house , and to enjoy all that he world can give you ; and what , on the other hand , to be sunk into the dark circumstances of a woman that has lost her reputation ; and that though i shall be a private friend to you while i live , yet as i shall be suspected always , so you will be afraid to see me , and i shall be afraid to own you . '
he gave me no time to reply , but went on with me thus : ' what has happened between us , child , so long as we both agree to do so , may be buried and forgotten .
i shall always be your sincere friend , without any inclination to nearer intimacy , when you become my sister ; and we shall have all the honest part of conversation without any reproaches between us of having done amiss . i beg of you to consider it , and to not stand in the way of your own safety and prosperity ; and to satisfy you that i am sincere , ' added he , ' i here offer you # 500 in money , to make you some amends for the freedoms i have taken with you , which we shall look upon as some of the follies of our lives , which ' tis hoped we may repent of . ' he spoke this in so much more moving terms than it is possible for me to express , and with so much greater force of argument than i can repeat , that i only recommend it to those who read the story , to suppose , that as he held me above an hour and a half in that discourse , so he answered all my objections , and fortified his discourse with all the arguments that human wit and art could devise .
i cannot say , however , that anything he said made impression enough upon me so as to give me any thought of the matter , till he told me at last very plainly , that if i refused , he was sorry to add that he could never go on with me in that station as we stood before ; that though he loved me as well as ever , and that i was as agreeable to him as ever , yet sense of virtue had not so far forsaken him as to suffer him to lie with a woman that his brother courted to make his wife ; and if he took his leave of me , with a denial in this affair , whatever he might do for me in the point of support , grounded on his first engagement of maintaining me , yet he would not have me be surprised that he was obliged to tell me he could not allow himself to see me any more ; and that , indeed , i could not expect it of him .
i received this last part with some token of surprise and disorder , and had much ado to avoid sinking down , for indeed i loved him to an extravagance not easy to imagine ; but he perceived my disorder . he entreated me to consider seriously of it ; assured me that it was the only way to preserve our mutual affection ; that in this station we might love as friends , with the utmost passion , and with a love of relation untainted , free from our just reproaches , and free from other people 's suspicions ; that he should ever acknowledge his happiness owing to me ; that he would be debtor to me as long as he lived , and would be paying that debt as long as he had breath .
thus he wrought me up , in short , to a kind of hesitation in the matter ; having the dangers on one side represented in lively figures , and indeed , heightened by my imagination of being turned out to the wide world a mere cast-off whore , for it was no less , and perhaps exposed as such , with little to provide for myself , with no friend , no acquaintance in the whole world , out of that town , and there i could not pretend to stay .
all this terrified me to the last degree , and he took care upon all occasions to lay it home to me in the worst colours that it could be possible to be drawn in . on the other hand , he failed not to set forth the easy , prosperous life which i was going to live .
he answered all that i could object from affection , and from former engagements , with telling me the necessity that was before us of taking other measures now ; and as to his promises of marriage , the nature of things , he said , had put an end to that , by the probability of my being his brother 's wife , before the time to which his promises all referred .
thus , in a word , i may say , he reasoned me out of my reason ; he conquered all my arguments , and i began to see a danger that i was in , which i had not considered of before , and that was , of being dropped by both of them and left alone in the world to shift for myself .
this , and his persuasion , at length prevailed with me to consent , though with so much reluctance , that it was easy to see i should go to church like a bear to the stake . i had some little apprehensions about me , too , lest my new spouse , who , by the way , i had not the least affection for , should be skillful enough to challenge me on another account , upon our first coming to bed together . but whether he did it with design or not , i know not , but his elder brother took care to make him very much fuddled before he went to bed , so that i had the satisfaction of a drunken bedfellow the first night .
how he did it i know not , but i concluded that he certainly contrived it , that his brother might be able to make no judgment of the difference between a maid and a married woman ; nor did he ever entertain any notions of it , or disturb his thoughts about it .
i should go back a little here to where i left off .
the elder brother having thus managed me , his next business was to manage his mother , and he never left till he had brought her to acquiesce and be passive in the thing , even without acquainting the father , other than by post letters ; so that she consented to our marrying privately , and leaving her to mange the father afterwards .
then he cajoled with his brother , and persuaded him what service he had done him , and how he had brought his mother to consent , which , though true , was not indeed done to serve him , but to serve himself ; but thus diligently did he cheat him , and had the thanks of a faithful friend for shifting off his whore into his brother 's arms for a wife .
so certainly does interest banish all manner of affection , and so naturally do men give up honour and justice , humanity , and even christianity , to secure themselves .
i must now come back to brother robin , as we always called him , who having got his mother 's consent , as above , came big with the news to me , and told me the whole story of it , with a sincerity so visible , that i must confess it grieved me that i must be the instrument to abuse so honest a gentleman . but there was no remedy ; he would have me , and i was not obliged to tell him that i was his brother 's whore , though i had no other way to put him off ; so i came gradually into it , to his satisfaction , and behold we were married .
modesty forbids me to reveal the secrets of the marriage-bed , but nothing could have happened more suitable to my circumstances than that , as above , my husband was so fuddled when he came to bed , that he could not remember in the morning whether he had had any conversation with me or no , and i was obliged to tell him he had , though in reality he had not , that i might be sure he could make to inquiry about anything else .
it concerns the story in hand very little to enter into the further particulars of the family , or of myself , for the five years that i lived with this husband , only to observe that i had two children by him , and that at the end of five years he died . he had been really a very good husband to me , and we lived very agreeably together ; but as he had not received much from them , and had in the little time he lived acquired no great matters , so my circumstances were not great , nor was i much mended by the match .
indeed , i had preserved the elder brother 's bonds to me , to pay # 500 , which he offered me for my consent to marry his brother ; and this , with what i had saved of the money he formerly gave me , about as much more by my husband , left me a widow with about # 1200 in my pocket .
my two children were , indeed , taken happily off my hands by my husband 's father and mother , and that , by the way , was all they got by mrs. betty .
i confess i was not suitably affected with the loss of my husband , nor indeed can i say that i ever loved him as i ought to have done , or as was proportionable to the good usage i had from him , for he was a tender , kind , good-humoured man as any woman could desire ; but his brother being so always in my sight , at least while we were in the country , was a continual snare to me , and i never was in bed with my husband but i wished myself in the arms of his brother ; and though his brother never offered me the least kindness that way after our marriage , but carried it just as a brother out to do , yet it was impossible for me to do so to him ; in short , i committed adultery and incest with him every day in my desires , which , without doubt , was as effectually criminal in the nature of the guilt as if i had actually done it .
before my husband died his elder brother was married , and we , being then removed to london , were written to by the old lady to come and be at the wedding . my husband went , but i pretended indisposition , and that i could not possibly travel , so i stayed behind ; for , in short , i could not bear the sight of his being given to another woman , though i knew i was never to have him myself .
i was now , as above , left loose to the world , and being still young and handsome , as everybody said of me , and i assure you i thought myself so , and with a tolerable fortune in my pocket , i put no small value upon myself . i was courted by several very considerable tradesmen , and particularly very warmly by one , a linen-draper , at whose house , after my husband 's death , i took a lodging , his sister being my acquaintance . here i had all the liberty and all the opportunity to be gay and appear in company that i could desire , my landlord 's sister being one of the maddest , gayest things alive , and not so much mistress of her virtue as i thought as first she had been . she brought me into a world of wild company , and even brought home several persons , such as she liked well enough to gratify , to see her pretty widow , so she was pleased to call me , and that name i got in a little time in public . now , as fame and fools make an assembly , i was here wonderfully caressed , had abundance of admirers , and such as called themselves lovers ; but i found not one fair proposal among them all . as for their common design , that i understood too well to be drawn into any more snares of that kind .
the case was altered with me : i had money in my pocket , and had nothing to say to them .
i had been tricked once by that cheat called love , but the game was over ; i was resolved now to be married or nothing , and to be well married or not at all .
i loved the company , indeed , of men of mirth and wit , men of gallantry and figure , and was often entertained with such , as i was also with others ; but i found by just observation , that the brightest men came upon the dullest errand--that is to say , the dullest as to what i aimed at . on the other hand , those who came with the best proposals were the dullest and most disagreeable part of the world .
i was not averse to a tradesman , but then i would have a tradesman , forsooth , that was something of a gentleman too ; that when my husband had a mind to carry me to the court , or to the play , he might become a sword , and look as like a gentleman as another man ; and not be one that had the mark of his apron-strings upon his coat , or the mark of his hat upon his periwig ; that should look as if he was set on to his sword , when his sword was put on to him , and that carried his trade in his countenance .
well , at last i found this amphibious creature , this land-water thing called a gentleman-tradesman ; and as a just plague upon my folly , i was catched in the very snare which , as i might say , i laid for myself .
i said for myself , for i was not trepanned , i confess , but i betrayed myself . this was a draper , too , for though my comrade would have brought me to a bargain with her brother , yet when it came to the point , it was , it seems , for a mistress , not a wife ; and i kept true to this notion , that a woman should never be kept for a mistress that had money to keep herself .
thus my pride , not my principle , my money , not my virtue , kept me honest ; though , as it proved , i found i had much better have been sold by my she-comrade to her brother , than have sold myself as i did to a tradesman that was rake , gentleman , shopkeeper , and beggar , all together .
but i was hurried on ( by my fancy to a gentleman ) to ruin myself in the grossest manner that every woman did ; for my new husband coming to a lump of money at once , fell into such a profusion of expense , that all i had , and all he had before , if he had anything worth mentioning , would not have held it out above one year .
he was very fond of me for about a quarter of a year , and what i got by that was , that i had the pleasure of seeing a great deal of my money spent upon myself , and , as i may say , had some of the spending it too .
'come , my dear , ' says he to me one day , ' shall we go and take a turn into the country for about a week ? '
'ay , my dear , ' says i , ' whither would you go ? '
'i care not whither , ' says he , ' but i have a mind to look like quality for a week . we 'll go to oxford , ' says he .
'how , ' says i , ' shall we go ? i am no horsewoman , and ' tis too far for a coach . '
'too far ! ' says he ; ' no place is too far for a coach-and-six .
if i carry you out , you shall travel like a duchess . '
'hum , ' says i , ' my dear , ' tis a frolic ; but if you have a mind to it , i don 't care . '
well , the time was appointed , we had a rich coach , very good horses , a coachman , postillion , and two footmen in very good liveries ; a gentleman on horseback , and a page with a feather in his hat upon another horse . the servants all called him my lord , and the inn-keepers , you may be sure , did the like , and i was her honour the countess , and thus we traveled to oxford , and a very pleasant journey we had ; for , give him his due , not a beggar alive knew better how to be a lord than my husband .
we saw all the rarities at oxford , talked with two or three fellows of colleges about putting out a young nephew , that was left to his lordship 's care , to the university , and of their being his tutors . we diverted ourselves with bantering several other poor scholars , with hopes of being at least his lordship 's chaplains and putting on a scarf ; and thus having lived like quality indeed , as to expense , we went away for northampton , and , in a word , in about twelve days ' ramble came home again , to the tune of about # 93 expense .
vanity is the perfection of a fop .
my husband had this excellence , that he valued nothing of expense ; and as his history , you may be sure , has very little weight in it , ' tis enough to tell you that in about two years and a quarter he broke , and was not so happy to get over into the mint , but got into a sponging-house , being arrested in an action too heavy from him to give bail to , so he sent for me to come to him .
it was no surprise to me , for i had foreseen some time that all was going to wreck , and had been taking care to reserve something if i could , though it was not much , for myself . but when he sent for me , he behaved much better than i expected , and told me plainly he had played the fool , and suffered himself to be surprised , which he might have prevented ; that now he foresaw he could not stand it , and therefore he would have me go home , and in the night take away everything i had in the house of any value , and secure it ; and after that , he told me that if i could get away one hundred or two hundred pounds in goods out of the shop , i should do it ; ' only , ' says he , ' let me know nothing of it , neither what you take nor whither you carry it ; for as for me , ' says he , ' i am resolved to get out of this house and be gone ; and if you never hear of me more , my dear , ' says he , ' i wish you well ; i am only sorry for the injury i have done you . '
he said some very handsome things to me indeed at parting ; for i told you he was a gentleman , and that was all the benefit i had of his being so ; that he used me very handsomely and with good manners upon all occasions , even to the last , only spent all i had , and left me to rob the creditors for something to subsist on .
however , i did as he bade me , that you may be sure ; and having thus taken my leave of him , i never saw him more , for he found means to break out of the bailiff 's house that night or the next , and go over into france , and for the rest of the creditors scrambled for it as well as they could .
how , i knew not , for i could come at no knowledge of anything , more than this , that he came home about three o 'clock in the morning , caused the rest of his goods to be removed into the mint , and the shop to be shut up ; and having raised what money he could get together , he got over , as i said , to france , from whence i had one or two letters from him , and no more .
i did not see him when he came home , for he having given me such instructions as above , and i having made the best of my time , i had no more business back again at the house , not knowing but i might have been stopped there by the creditors ; for a commission of bankrupt being soon after issued , they might have stopped me by orders from the commissioners .
but my husband , having so dexterously got out of the bailiff 's house by letting himself down in a most desperate manner from almost the top of the house to the top of another building , and leaping from thence , which was almost two storeys , and which was enough indeed to have broken his neck , he came home and got away his goods before the creditors could come to seize ; that is to say , before they could get out the commission , and be ready to send their officers to take possession .
my husband was so civil to me , for still i say he was much of a gentleman , that in the first letter he wrote me from france , he let me know where he had pawned twenty pieces of fine holland for # 30 , which were really worth # 90 , and enclosed me the token and an order for the taking them up , paying the money , which i did , and made in time above # 100 of them , having leisure to cut them and sell them , some and some , to private families , as opportunity offered .
however , with all this , and all that i had secured before , i found , upon casting things up , my case was very much altered , any my fortune much lessened ; for , including the hollands and a parcel of fine muslins , which i carried off before , and some plate , and other things , i found i could hardly muster up # 500 ; and my condition was very odd , for though i had no child ( i had had one by my gentleman draper , but it was buried ) , yet i was a widow bewitched ; i had a husband and no husband , and i could not pretend to marry again , though i knew well enough my husband would never see england any more , if he lived fifty years .
thus , i say , i was limited from marriage , what offer might soever be made me ; and i had not one friend to advise with in the condition i was in , least not one i durst trust the secret of my circumstances to , for if the commissioners were to have been informed where i was , i should have been fetched up and examined upon oath , and all i have saved be taken away from me .
upon these apprehensions , the first thing i did was to go quite out of my knowledge , and go by another name .
this i did effectually , for i went into the mint too , took lodgings in a very private place , dressed up in the habit of a widow , and called myself mrs. flanders .
i had made an acquaintance with a very sober , good sort of a woman , who was a widow too , like me , but in better circumstances . her husband had been a captain of a merchant ship , and having had the misfortune to be cast away coming home on a voyage from the west indies , which would have been very profitable if he had come safe , was so reduced by the loss , that though he had saved his life then , it broke his heart , and killed him afterwards ; and his widow , being pursued by the creditors , was forced to take shelter in the mint .
she soon made things up with the help of friends , and was at liberty again ; and finding that i rather was there to be concealed , than by any particular prosecutions and finding also that i agreed with her , or rather she with me , in a just abhorrence of the place and of the company , she invited to go home with her till i could put myself in some posture of settling in the world to my mind ; withal telling me , that it was ten to one but some good captain of a ship might take a fancy to me , and court me , in that part of the town where she lived .
i accepted her offer , and was with her half a year , and should have been longer , but in that interval what she proposed to me happened to herself , and she married very much to her advantage .
but whose fortune soever was upon the increase , mine seemed to be upon the wane , and i found nothing present , except two or three boatswains , or such fellows , but as for the commanders , they were generally of two sorts : 1 .
such as , having good business , that is to say , a good ship , resolved not to marry but with advantage , that is , with a good fortune ; 2 . such as , being out of employ , wanted a wife to help them to a ship ; i mean ( 1 ) a wife who , having some money , could enable them to hold , as they call it , a good part of a ship themselves , so to encourage owners to come in ; or ( 2 ) a wife who , if she had not money , had friends who were concerned in shipping , and so could help to put the young man into a good ship , which to them is as good as a portion ; and neither of these was my case , so i looked like one that was to lie on hand .
but i come now to my own case , in which there was at this time no little nicety .
the circumstances i was in made the offer of a good husband the most necessary thing in the world to me , but i found soon that to be made cheap and easy was not the way . it soon began to be found that the widow had no fortune , and to say this was to say all that was ill of me , for i began to be dropped in all the discourses of matrimony . being well-bred , handsome , witty , modest , and agreeable ; all which i had allowed to my character--whether justly or no is not the purpose--i say , all these would not do without the dross , which way now become more valuable than virtue itself .
in short , the widow , they said , had no money .
i resolved , therefore , as to the state of my present circumstances , that it was absolutely necessary to change my station , and make a new appearance in some other place where i was not known , and even to pass by another name if i found occasion .
i communicated my thoughts to my intimate friend , the captain 's lady , whom i had so faithfully served in her case with the captain , and who was as ready to serve me in the same kind as i could desire . i made no scruple to lay my circumstances open to her ; my stock was but low , for i had made but about # 540 at the close of my last affair , and i had wasted some of that ; however , i had about # 460 left , a great many very rich clothes , a gold watch , and some jewels , though of no extraordinary value , and about # 30 or # 40 left in linen not disposed of .
my dear and faithful friend , the captain 's wife , was so sensible of the service i had done her in the affair above , that she was not only a steady friend to me , but , knowing my circumstances , she frequently made me presents as money came into her hands , such as fully amounted to a maintenance , so that i spent none of my own ; and at last she made this unhappy proposal to me , viz. that as we had observed , as above , how the men made no scruple to set themselves out as persons meriting a woman of fortune , when they had really no fortune of their own , it was but just to deal with them in their own way and , if it was possible , to deceive the deceiver .
the first step she put me upon was to call her cousin , and to to a relation 's house of hers in the country , where she directed me , and where she brought her husband to visit me ; and calling me cousin , she worked matters so about , that her husband and she together invited me most passionately to come to town and be with them , for they now live in a quite different place from where they were before .
in the next place , she tells her husband that i had at least # 1500 fortune , and that after some of my relations i was like to have a great deal more .
it was enough to tell her husband this ; there needed nothing on my side . i was but to sit still and wait the event , for it presently went all over the neighbourhood that the young widow at captain ---- ' s was a fortune , that she had at least # 1500 , and perhaps a great deal more , and that the captain said so ; and if the captain was asked at any time about me , he made no scruple to affirm it , though he knew not one word of the matter , other than that his wife had told him so ; and in this he thought no harm , for he really believed it to be so , because he had it from his wife : so slender a foundation will those fellows build upon , if they do but think there is a fortune in the game .
with the reputation of this fortune , i presently found myself blessed with admirers enough , and that i had my choice of men , as scarce as they said they were , which , by the way , confirms what i was saying before . this being my case , i , who had a subtle game to play , had nothing now to do but to single out from them all the properest man that might be for my purpose ; that is to say , the man who was most likely to depend upon the hearsay of a fortune , and not inquire too far into the particulars ; and unless i did this i did nothing , for my case would not bear much inquiry .
i picked out my man without much difficulty , by the judgment i made of his way of courting me . i had let him run on with his protestations and oaths that he loved me above all the world ; that if i would make him happy , that was enough ; all which i knew was upon supposition , nay , it was upon a full satisfaction , that i was very rich , though i never told him a word of it myself .
this was my man ; but i was to try him to the bottom , and indeed in that consisted my safety ; for if he baulked , i knew i was undone , as surely as he was undone if he took me ; and if i did not make some scruple about his fortune , it was the way to lead him to raise some about mine ; and first , therefore , i pretended on all occasions to doubt his sincerity , and told him , perhaps he only courted me for my fortune . he stopped my mouth in that part with the thunder of his protestations , as above , but still i pretended to doubt .
one morning he pulls off his diamond ring , and writes upon the glass of the sash in my chamber this line--
'you i love , and you alone . '
i read it , and asked him to lend me his ring , with which i wrote under it , thus--
'and so in love says every one . '
he takes his ring again , and writes another line thus--
'virtue alone is an estate . '
i borrowed it again , and i wrote under it--
'but money 's virtue , gold is fate . '
he coloured as red as fire to see me turn so quick upon him , and in a kind of a rage told me he would conquer me , and writes again thus--
'i scorn your gold , and yet i love . '
i ventured all upon the last cast of poetry , as you 'll see , for i wrote boldly under his last--
'i 'm poor : let 's see how kind you 'll prove . '
this was a sad truth to me ; whether he believed me or no , i could not tell ; i supposed then that he did not .
however , he flew to me , took me in his arms , and , kissing me very eagerly , and with the greatest passion imaginable , he held me fast till he called for a pen and ink , and then told me he could not wait the tedious writing on the glass , but , pulling out a piece of paper , he began and wrote again--
'be mine , with all your poverty . '
i took his pen , and followed him immediately , thus--
'yet secretly you hope i lie . '
he told me that was unkind , because it was not just , and that i put him upon contradicting me , which did not consist with good manners , any more than with his affection ; and therefore , since i had insensibly drawn him into this poetical scribble , he begged i would not oblige him to break it off ; so he writes again--
'let love alone be our debate . '
i wrote again--
'she loves enough that does not hate . '
this he took for a favour , and so laid down the cudgels , that is to say , the pen ; i say , he took if for a favour , and a mighty one it was , if he had known all . however , he took it as i meant it , that is , to let him think i was inclined to go on with him , as indeed i had all the reason in the world to do , for he was the best-humoured , merry sort of a fellow that i ever met with , and i often reflected on myself how doubly criminal it was to deceive such a man ; but that necessity , which pressed me to a settlement suitable to my condition , was my authority for it ; and certainly his affection to me , and the goodness of his temper , however they might argue against using him ill , yet they strongly argued to me that he would better take the disappointment than some fiery-tempered wretch , who might have nothing to recommend him but those passions which would serve only to make a woman miserable all her days .
besides , though i jested with him ( as he supposed it ) so often about my poverty , yet , when he found it to be true , he had foreclosed all manner of objection , seeing , whether he was in jest or in earnest , he had declared he took me without any regard to my portion , and , whether i was in jest or in earnest , i had declared myself to be very poor ; so that , in a word , i had him fast both ways ; and though he might say afterwards he was cheated , yet he could never say that i had cheated him .
he pursued me close after this , and as i saw there was no need to fear losing him , i played the indifferent part with him longer than prudence might otherwise have dictated to me . but i considered how much this caution and indifference would give me the advantage over him , when i should come to be under the necessity of owning my own circumstances to him ; and i managed it the more warily , because i found he inferred from thence , as indeed he ought to do , that i either had the more money or the more judgment , and would not venture at all .
i took the freedom one day , after we had talked pretty close to the subject , to tell him that it was true i had received the compliment of a lover from him , namely , that he would take me without inquiring into my fortune , and i would make him a suitable return in this , viz. that i would make as little inquiry into his as consisted with reason , but i hoped he would allow me to ask a few questions , which he would answer or not as he thought fit ; and that i would not be offended if he did not answer me at all ; one of these questions related to our manner of living , and the place where , because i had heard he had a great plantation in virginia , and that he had talked of going to live there , and i told him i did not care to be transported .
he began from this discourse to let me voluntarily into all his affairs , and to tell me in a frank , open way all his circumstances , by which i found he was very well to pass in the world ; but that great part of his estate consisted of three plantations , which he had in virginia , which brought him in a very good income , generally speaking , to the tune of # 300 , a year , but that if he was to live upon them , would bring him in four times as much . ' very well , ' thought i ; ' you shall carry me thither as soon as you please , though i won 't tell you so beforehand . '
i jested with him extremely about the figure he would make in virginia ; but i found he would do anything i desired , though he did not seem glad to have me undervalue his plantations , so i turned my tale . i told him i had good reason not to go there to live , because if his plantations were worth so much there , i had not a fortune suitable to a gentleman of # 1200 a year , as he said his estate would be .
he replied generously , he did not ask what my fortune was ; he had told me from the beginning he would not , and he would be as good as his word ; but whatever it was , he assured me he would never desire me to go to virginia with him , or go thither himself without me , unless i was perfectly willing , and made it my choice .
all this , you may be sure , was as i wished , and indeed nothing could have happened more perfectly agreeable . i carried it on as far as this with a sort of indifferency that he often wondered at , more than at first , but which was the only support of his courtship ; and i mention it the rather to intimate again to the ladies that nothing but want of courage for such an indifferency makes our sex so cheap , and prepares them to be ill-used as they are ; would they venture the loss of a pretending fop now and then , who carries it high upon the point of his own merit , they would certainly be less slighted , and courted more . had i discovered really and truly what my great fortune was , and that in all i had not full # 500 when he expected # 1500 , yet i had hooked him so fast , and played him so long , that i was satisfied he would have had me in my worst circumstances ; and indeed it was less a surprise to him when he learned the truth than it would have been , because having not the least blame to lay on me , who had carried it with an air of indifference to the last , he would not say one word , except that indeed he thought it had been more , but that if it had been less he did not repent his bargain ; only that he should not be able to maintain me so well as he intended .
in short , we were married , and very happily married on my side , i assure you , as to the man ; for he was the best-humoured man that every woman had , but his circumstances were not so good as i imagined , as , on the other hand , he had not bettered himself by marrying so much as he expected .
when we were married , i was shrewdly put to it to bring him that little stock i had , and to let him see it was no more ; but there was a necessity for it , so i took my opportunity one day when we were alone , to enter into a short dialogue with him about it .
'my dear , ' said i , ' we have been married a fortnight ; is it not time to let you know whether you have got a wife with something or with nothing ? '
'your own time for that , my dear , ' says he ; ' i am satisfied that i have got the wife i love ; i have not troubled you much , ' says he , ' with my inquiry after it . '
'that 's true , ' says i , ' but i have a great difficulty upon me about it , which i scarce know how to manage . '
'what 's that , m ' dear ? ' says he .
'why , ' says i , " tis a little hard upon me , and ' tis harder upon you . i am told that captain ---- ' ( meaning my friend 's husband ) ' has told you i had a great deal more money than i ever pretended to have , and i am sure i never employed him to do so . '
'well , ' says he , ' captain ---- may have told me so , but what then ?
if you have not so much , that may lie at his door , but you never told me what you had , so i have no reason to blame you if you have nothing at all . '
'that 's is so just , ' said i , ' and so generous , that it makes my having but a little a double affliction to me . '
'the less you have , my dear , ' says he , ' the worse for us both ; but i hope your affliction you speak of is not caused for fear i should be unkind to you , for want of a portion . no , no , if you have nothing , tell me plainly , and at once ; i may perhaps tell the captain he has cheated me , but i can never say you have cheated me , for did you not give it under your hand that you were poor ? and so i ought to expect you to be . '
'well , ' said i , ' my dear , i am glad i have not been concerned in deceiving you before marriage .
if i deceive you since , ' tis ne 'er the worse ; that i am poor is too true , but not so poor as to have nothing neither ' ; so i pulled out some bank bills , and gave him about # 160 .
'there 's something , my dear , ' said i , ' and not quite all neither . '
i had brought him so near to expecting nothing , by what i had said before , that the money , though the sum was small in itself , was doubly welcome to him ; he owned it was more than he looked for , and that he did not question by my discourse to him , but that my fine clothes , gold watch , and a diamond ring or two , had been all my fortune .
i let him please himself with that # 160 two or three days , and then , having been abroad that day , and as if i had been to fetch it , i brought him # 100 more home in gold , and told him there was a little more portion for him ; and , in short , in about a week more i brought him # 180 more , and about # 60 in linen , which i made him believe i had been obliged to take with the # 100 which i gave him in gold , as a composition for a debt of # 600 , being little more than five shillings in the pound , and overvalued too .
'and now , my dear , ' says i to him , ' i am very sorry to tell you , that there is all , and that i have given you my whole fortune . '
i added , that if the person who had my # 600 had not abused me , i had been worth # 1000 to him , but that as it was , i had been faithful to him , and reserved nothing to myself , but if it had been more he should have had it .
he was so obliged by the manner , and so pleased with the sum , for he had been in a terrible fright lest it had been nothing at all , that he accepted it very thankfully .
and thus i got over the fraud of passing for a fortune without money , and cheating a man into marrying me on pretence of a fortune ; which , by the way , i take to be one of the most dangerous steps a woman can take , and in which she runs the most hazard of being ill-used afterwards .
my husband , to give him his due , was a man of infinite good nature , but he was no fool ; and finding his income not suited to the manner of living which he had intended , if i had brought him what he expected , and being under a disappointment in his return of his plantations in virginia , he discovered many times his inclination of going over to virginia , to live upon his own ; and often would be magnifying the way of living there , how cheap , how plentiful , how pleasant , and the like .
i began presently to understand this meaning , and i took him up very plainly one morning , and told him that i did so ; that i found his estate turned to no account at this distance , compared to what it would do if he lived upon the spot , and that i found he had a mind to go and live there ; and i added , that i was sensible he had been disappointed in a wife , and that finding his expectations not answered that way , i could do no less , to make him amends , than tell him that i was very willing to go over to virginia with him and live there .
he said a thousand kind things to me upon the subject of my making such a proposal to him .
he told me , that however he was disappointed in his expectations of a fortune , he was not disappointed in a wife , and that i was all to him that a wife could be , and he was more than satisfied on the whole when the particulars were put together , but that this offer was so kind , that it was more than he could express .
to bring the story short , we agreed to go .
he told me that he had a very good house there , that it was well furnished , that his mother was alive and lived in it , and one sister , which was all the relations he had ; that as soon as he came there , his mother would remove to another house , which was her own for life , and his after her decease ; so that i should have all the house to myself ; and i found all this to be exactly as he had said .
to make this part of the story short , we put on board the ship which we went in , a large quantity of good furniture for our house , with stores of linen and other necessaries , and a good cargo for sale , and away we went .
to give an account of the manner of our voyage , which was long and full of dangers , is out of my way ; i kept no journal , neither did my husband . all that i can say is , that after a terrible passage , frighted twice with dreadful storms , and once with what was still more terrible , i mean a pirate who came on board and took away almost all our provisions ; and which would have been beyond all to me , they had once taken my husband to go along with them , but by entreaties were prevailed with to leave him ; --i say , after all these terrible things , we arrived in york river in virginia , and coming to our plantation , we were received with all the demonstrations of tenderness and affection , by my husband 's mother , that were possible to be expressed .
we lived here all together , my mother-in-law , at my entreaty , continuing in the house , for she was too kind a mother to be parted with ; my husband likewise continued the same as at first , and i thought myself the happiest creature alive , when an odd and surprising event put an end to all that felicity in a moment , and rendered my condition the most uncomfortable , if not the most miserable , in the world .
my mother was a mighty cheerful , good-humoured old woman --i may call her old woman , for her son was above thirty ; i say she was very pleasant , good company , and used to entertain me , in particular , with abundance of stories to divert me , as well of the country we were in as of the people .
among the rest , she often told me how the greatest part of the inhabitants of the colony came thither in very indifferent circumstances from england ; that , generally speaking , they were of two sorts ; either , first , such as were brought over by masters of ships to be sold as servants . ' such as we call them , my dear , ' says she , ' but they are more properly called slaves . '
or , secondly , such as are transported from newgate and other prisons , after having been found guilty of felony and other crimes punishable with death . ' when they come here , ' says she , ' we make no difference ; the planters buy them , and they work together in the field till their time is out . when ' tis expired , ' said she , ' they have encouragement given them to plant for themselves ; for they have a certain number of acres of land allotted them by the country , and they go to work to clear and cure the land , and then to plant it with tobacco and corn for their own use ; and as the tradesmen and merchants will trust them with tools and clothes and other necessaries , upon the credit of their crop before it is grown , so they again plant every year a little more than the year before , and so buy whatever they want with the crop that is before them .
'hence , child , ' says she , ' man a newgate-bird becomes a great man , and we have , ' continued she , ' several justices of the peace , officers of the trained bands , and magistrates of the towns they live in , that have been burnt in the hand . '
she was going on with that part of the story , when her own part in it interrupted her , and with a great deal of good-humoured confidence she told me she was one of the second sort of inhabitants herself ; that she came away openly , having ventured too far in a particular case , so that she was become a criminal .
'and here 's the mark of it , child , ' says she ; and , pulling off her glove , ' look ye here , ' says she , turning up the palm of her hand , and showed me a very fine white arm and hand , but branded in the inside of the hand , as in such cases it must be .
this story was very moving to me , but my mother , smiling , said , ' you need not think a thing strange , daughter , for as i told you , some of the best men in this country are burnt in the hand , and they are not ashamed to own it .
there 's major ---- , ' says she , ' he was an eminent pickpocket ; there 's justice ba----r , was a shoplifter , and both of them were burnt in the hand ; and i could name you several such as they are . ' we had frequent discourses of this kind , and abundance of instances she gave me of the like .
after some time , as she was telling some stories of one that was transported but a few weeks ago , i began in an intimate kind of way to ask her to tell me something of her own story , which she did with the utmost plainness and sincerity ; how she had fallen into very ill company in london in her young days , occasioned by her mother sending her frequently to carry victuals and other relief to a kinswoman of hers who was a prisoner in newgate , and who lay in a miserable starving condition , was afterwards condemned to be hanged , but having got respite by pleading her belly , dies afterwards in the prison .
here my mother-in-law ran out in a long account of the wicked practices in that dreadful place , and how it ruined more young people that all the town besides .
'and child , ' says my mother , ' perhaps you may know little of it , or , it may be , have heard nothing about it ; but depend upon it , ' says she , ' we all know here that there are more thieves and rogues made by that one prison of newgate than by all the clubs and societies of villains in the nation ; ' tis that cursed place , ' says my mother , ' that half peopled this colony . '
here she went on with her own story so long , and in so particular a manner , that i began to be very uneasy ; but coming to one particular that required telling her name , i thought i should have sunk down in the place . she perceived i was out of order , and asked me if i was not well , and what ailed me .
i told her i was so affected with the melancholy story she had told , and the terrible things she had gone through , that it had overcome me , and i begged of her to talk no more of it .
'why , my dear , ' says she very kindly , ' what need these things trouble you ?
these passages were long before your time , and they give me no trouble at all now ; nay , i look back on them with a particular satisfaction , as they have been a means to bring me to this place . '
then she went on to tell me how she very luckily fell into a good family , where , behaving herself well , and her mistress dying , her master married her , by whom she had my husband and his sister , and that by her diligence and good management after her husband 's death , she had improved the plantations to such a degree as they then were , so that most of the estate was of her getting , not her husband 's , for she had been a widow upwards of sixteen years .
i heard this part of they story with very little attention , because i wanted much to retire and give vent to my passions , which i did soon after ; and let any one judge what must be the anguish of my mind , when i came to reflect that this was certainly no more or less than my own mother , and i had now had two children , and was big with another by my own brother , and lay with him still every night .
i was now the most unhappy of all women in the world .
oh ! had the story never been told me , all had been well ; it had been no crime to have lain with my husband , since as to his being my relation i had known nothing of it .
i had now such a load on my mind that it kept me perpetually waking ; to reveal it , which would have been some ease to me , i could not find would be to any purpose , and yet to conceal it would be next to impossible ; nay , i did not doubt but i should talk of it in my sleep , and tell my husband of it whether i would or no . if i discovered it , the least thing i could expect was to lose my husband , for he was too nice and too honest a man to have continued my husband after he had known i had been his sister ; so that i was perplexed to the last degree .
i leave it to any man to judge what difficulties presented to my view . i was away from my native country , at a distance prodigious , and the return to me unpassable .
i lived very well , but in a circumstance insufferable in itself . if i had discovered myself to my mother , it might be difficult to convince her of the particulars , and i had no way to prove them . on the other hand , if she had questioned or doubted me , i had been undone , for the bare suggestion would have immediately separated me from my husband , without gaining my mother or him , who would have been neither a husband nor a brother ; so that between the surprise on one hand , and the uncertainty on the other , i had been sure to be undone .
in the meantime , as i was but too sure of the fact , i lived therefore in open avowed incest and whoredom , and all under the appearance of an honest wife ; and though i was not much touched with the crime of it , yet the action had something in it shocking to nature , and made my husband , as he thought himself , even nauseous to me .
however , upon the most sedate consideration , i resolved that it was absolutely necessary to conceal it all and not make the least discovery of it either to mother or husband ; and thus i lived with the greatest pressure imaginable for three years more , but had no more children .
during this time my mother used to be frequently telling me old stories of her former adventures , which , however , were no ways pleasant to me ; for by it , though she did not tell it me in plain terms , yet i could easily understand , joined with what i had heard myself , of my first tutors , that in her younger days she had been both whore and thief ; but i verily believed she had lived to repent sincerely of both , and that she was then a very pious , sober , and religious woman .
well , let her life have been what it would then , it was certain that my life was very uneasy to me ; for i lived , as i have said , but in the worst sort of whoredom , and as i could expect no good of it , so really no good issue came of it , and all my seeming prosperity wore off , and ended in misery and destruction .
it was some time , indeed , before it came to this , for , but i know not by what ill fate guided , everything went wrong with us afterwards , and that which was worse , my husband grew strangely altered , forward , jealous , and unkind , and i was as impatient of bearing his carriage , as the carriage was unreasonable and unjust .
these things proceeded so far , that we came at last to be in such ill terms with one another , that i claimed a promise of him , which he entered willingly into with me when i consented to come from england with him , viz. that if i found the country not to agree with me , or that i did not like to live there , i should come away to england again when i pleased , giving him a year 's warning to settle his affairs .
i say , i now claimed this promise of him , and i must confess i did it not in the most obliging terms that could be in the world neither ; but i insisted that he treated me ill , that i was remote from my friends , and could do myself no justice , and that he was jealous without cause , my conversation having been unblamable , and he having no pretense for it , and that to remove to england would take away all occasion from him .
i insisted so peremptorily upon it , that he could not avoid coming to a point , either to keep his word with me or to break it ; and this , notwithstanding he used all the skill he was master of , and employed his mother and other agents to prevail with me to alter my resolutions ; indeed , the bottom of the thing lay at my heart , and that made all his endeavours fruitless , for my heart was alienated from him as a husband .
i loathed the thoughts of bedding with him , and used a thousand pretenses of illness and humour to prevent his touching me , fearing nothing more than to be with child by him , which to be sure would have prevented , or at least delayed , my going over to england .
however , at last i put him so out of humour , that he took up a rash and fatal resolution ; in short , i should not go to england ; and though he had promised me , yet it was an unreasonable thing for me to desire it ; that it would be ruinous to his affairs , would unhinge his whole family , and be next to an undoing him in the world ; that therefore i ought not to desire it of him , and that no wife in the world that valued her family and her husband 's prosperity would insist upon such a thing .
this plunged me again , for when i considered the thing calmly , and took my husband as he really was , a diligent , careful man in the main work of laying up an estate for his children , and that he knew nothing of the dreadful circumstances that he was in , i could not but confess to myself that my proposal was very unreasonable , and what no wife that had the good of her family at heart would have desired .
but my discontents were of another nature ; i looked upon him no longer as a husband , but as a near relation , the son of my own mother , and i resolved somehow or other to be clear of him , but which way i did not know , nor did it seem possible .
it is said by the ill-natured world , of our sex , that if we are set on a thing , it is impossible to turn us from our resolutions ; in short , i never ceased poring upon the means to bring to pass my voyage , and came that length with my husband at last , as to propose going without him .
this provoked him to the last degree , and he called me not only an unkind wife , but an unnatural mother , and asked me how i could entertain such a thought without horror , as that of leaving my two children ( for one was dead ) without a mother , and to be brought up by strangers , and never to see them more .
it was true , had things been right , i should not have done it , but now it was my real desire never to see them , or him either , any more ; and as to the charge of unnatural , i could easily answer it to myself , while i knew that the whole relation was unnatural in the highest degree in the world .
however , it was plain there was no bringing my husband to anything ; he would neither go with me nor let me go without him , and it was quite out of my power to stir without his consent , as any one that knows the constitution of the country i was in , knows very well .
we had many family quarrels about it , and they began in time to grow up to a dangerous height ; for as i was quite estranged form my husband ( as he was called ) in affection , so i took no heed to my words , but sometimes gave him language that was provoking ; and , in short , strove all i could to bring him to a parting with me , which was what above all things in the world i desired most .
he took my carriage very ill , and indeed he might well do so , for at last i refused to bed with him , and carrying on the breach upon all occasions to extremity , he told me once he thought i was mad , and if i did not alter my conduct , he would put me under cure ; that is to say , into a madhouse .
i told him he should find i was far enough from mad , and that it was not in his power , or any other villain 's , to murder me . i confess at the same time i was heartily frighted at his thoughts of putting me into a madhouse , which would at once have destroyed all the possibility of breaking the truth out , whatever the occasion might be ; for that then no one would have given credit to a word of it .
this therefore brought me to a resolution , whatever came of it , to lay open my whole case ; but which way to do it , or to whom , was an inextricable difficulty , and took me many months to resolve . in the meantime , another quarrel with my husband happened , which came up to such a mad extreme as almost pushed me on to tell it him all to his face ; but though i kept it in so as not to come to the particulars , i spoke so much as put him into the utmost confusion , and in the end brought out the whole story .
he began with a calm expostulation upon my being so resolute to go to england ; i defended it , and one hard word bringing on another , as is usual in all family strife , he told me i did not treat him as if he was my husband , or talk of my children as if i was a mother ; and , in short , that i did not deserve to be used as a wife ; that he had used all the fair means possible with me ; that he had argued with all the kindness and calmness that a husband or a christian ought to do , and that i made him such a vile return , that i treated him rather like a dog than a man , and rather like the most contemptible stranger than a husband ; that he was very loth to use violence with me , but that , in short , he saw a necessity of it now , and that for the future he should be obliged to take such measures as should reduce me to my duty .
my blood was now fired to the utmost , though i knew what he had said was very true , and nothing could appear more provoked .
i told him , for his fair means and his foul , they were equally contemned by me ; that for my going to england , i was resolved on it , come what would ; and that as to treating him not like a husband , and not showing myself a mother to my children , there might be something more in it than he understood at present ; but , for his further consideration , i thought fit to tell him thus much , that he neither was my lawful husband , nor they lawful children , and that i had reason to regard neither of them more than i did .
i confess i was moved to pity him when i spoke it , for he turned pale as death , and stood mute as one thunderstruck , and once or twice i thought he would have fainted ; in short , it put him in a fit something like an apoplex ; he trembled , a sweat or dew ran off his face , and yet he was cold as a clod , so that i was forced to run and fetch something for him to keep life in him . when he recovered of that , he grew sick and vomited , and in a little after was put to bed , and the next morning was , as he had been indeed all night , in a violent fever .
however , it went off again , and he recovered , though but slowly , and when he came to be a little better , he told me i had given him a mortal wound with my tongue , and he had only one thing to ask before he desired an explanation .
i interrupted him , and told him i was sorry i had gone so far , since i saw what disorder it put him into , but i desired him not to talk to me of explanations , for that would but make things worse .
this heightened his impatience , and , indeed , perplexed him beyond all bearing ; for now he began to suspect that there was some mystery yet unfolded , but could not make the least guess at the real particulars of it ; all that ran in his brain was , that i had another husband alive , which i could not say in fact might not be true , but i assured him , however , there was not the least of that in it ; and indeed , as to my other husband , he was effectually dead in law to me , and had told me i should look on him as such , so i had not the least uneasiness on that score .
but now i found the thing too far gone to conceal it much longer , and my husband himself gave me an opportunity to ease myself of the secret , much to my satisfaction . he had laboured with me three or four weeks , but to no purpose , only to tell him whether i had spoken these words only as the effect of my passion , to put him in a passion , or whether there was anything of truth in the bottom of them .
but i continued inflexible , and would explain nothing , unless he would first consent to my going to england , which he would never do , he said , while he lived ; on the other hand , i said it was in my power to make him willing when i pleased--nay , to make him entreat me to go ; and this increased his curiosity , and made him importunate to the highest degree , but it was all to no purpose .
at length he tells all this story to his mother , and sets her upon me to get the main secret out of me , and she used her utmost skill with me indeed ; but i put her to a full stop at once by telling her that the reason and mystery of the whole matter lay in herself , and that it was my respect to her that had made me conceal it ; and that , in short , i could go no farther , and therefore conjured her not to insist upon it .
she was struck dumb at this suggestion , and could not tell what to say or to think ; but , laying aside the supposition as a policy of mine , continued her importunity on account of her son , and , if possible , to make up the breach between us two .
as to that , i told her that it was indeed a good design in her , but that it was impossible to be done ; and that if i should reveal to her the truth of what she desired , she would grant it to be impossible , and cease to desire it .
at last i seemed to be prevailed on by her importunity , and told her i dared trust her with a secret of the greatest importance , and she would soon see that this was so , and that i would consent to lodge it in her breast , if she would engage solemnly not to acquaint her son with it without my consent .
she was long in promising this part , but rather than not come at the main secret , she agreed to that too , and after a great many other preliminaries , i began , and told her the whole story .
first i told her how much she was concerned in all the unhappy breach which had happened between her son and me , by telling me her own story and her london name ; and that the surprise she saw i was in was upon that occasion . the i told her my own story , and my name , and assured her , by such other tokens as she could not deny , that i was no other , nor more or less , than her own child , her daughter , born of her body in newgate ; the same that had saved her from the gallows by being in her belly , and the same that she left in such-and-such hands when she was transported .
it is impossible to express the astonishment she was in ; she was not inclined to believe the story , or to remember the particulars , for she immediately foresaw the confusion that must follow in the family upon it . but everything concurred so exactly with the stories she had told me of herself , and which , if she had not told me , she would perhaps have been content to have denied , that she had stopped her own mouth , and she had nothing to do but to take me about the neck and kiss me , and cry most vehemently over me , without speaking one word for a long time together .
at last she broke out : ' unhappy child ! ' says she , ' what miserable chance could bring thee hither ? and in the arms of my own son , too !
married to thy own brother ! three children , and two alive , all of the same flesh and blood ! my son and my daughter lying together as husband and wife ! all confusion and distraction for ever ! miserable family ! what will become of us ? what is to be said ?
what is to be done ? ' and thus she ran on for a great while ; nor had i any power to speak , or if i had , did i know what to say , for every word wounded me to the soul .
with this kind of amazement on our thoughts we parted for the first time , though my mother was more surprised than i was , because it was more news to her than to me . however , she promised again to me at parting , that she would say nothing of it to her son , till we had talked of it again .
it was not long , you may be sure , before we had a second conference upon the same subject ; when , as if she had been willing to forget the story she had told me of herself , or to suppose that i had forgot some of the particulars , she began to tell them with alterations and omissions ; but i refreshed her memory and set her to rights in many things which i supposed she had forgot , and then came in so opportunely with the whole history , that it was impossible for her to go from it ; and then she fell into her rhapsodies again , and exclamations at the severity of her misfortunes .
when these things were a little over with her , we fell into a close debate about what should be first done before we gave an account of the matter to my husband .
but to what purpose could be all our consultations ?
we could neither of us see our way through it , nor see how it could be safe to open such a scene to him . it was impossible to make any judgment , or give any guess at what temper he would receive it in , or what measures he would take upon it ; and if he should have so little government of himself as to make it public , we easily foresaw that it would be the ruin of the whole family , and expose my mother and me to the last degree ; and if at last he should take the advantage the law would give him , he might put me away with disdain and leave me to sue for the little portion that i had , and perhaps waste it all in the suit , and then be a beggar ; the children would be ruined too , having no legal claim to any of his effects ; and thus i should see him , perhaps , in the arms of another wife in a few months , and be myself the most miserable creature alive .
my mother was as sensible of this as i ; and , upon the whole , we knew not what to do .
after some time we came to more sober resolutions , but then it was with this misfortune too , that my mother 's opinion and mine were quite different from one another , and indeed inconsistent with one another ; for my mother 's opinion was , that i should bury the whole thing entirely , and continue to live with him as my husband till some other event should make the discovery of it more convenient ; and that in the meantime she would endeavour to reconcile us together again , and restore our mutual comfort and family peace ; that we might lie as we used to do together , and so let the whole matter remain a secret as close as death . ' for , child , ' says she , ' we are both undone if it comes out . '
to encourage me to this , she promised to make me easy in my circumstances , as far as she was able , and to leave me what she could at her death , secured for me separately from my husband ; so that if it should come out afterwards , i should not be left destitute , but be able to stand on my own feet and procure justice from him .
this proposal did not agree at all with my judgment of the thing , though it was very fair and kind in my mother ; but my thoughts ran quite another way .
as to keeping the thing in our own breasts , and letting it all remain as it was , i told her it was impossible ; and i asked her how she could think i could bear the thoughts of lying with my own brother .
in the next place , i told her that her being alive was the only support of the discovery , and that while she owned me for her child , and saw reason to be satisfied that i was so , nobody else would doubt it ; but that if she should die before the discovery , i should be taken for an impudent creature that had forged such a thing to go away from my husband , or should be counted crazed and distracted .
then i told her how he had threatened already to put me into a madhouse , and what concern i had been in about it , and how that was the thing that drove me to the necessity of discovering it to her as i had done .
from all which i told her , that i had , on the most serious reflections i was able to make in the case , come to this resolution , which i hoped she would like , as a medium between both , viz. that she should use her endeavours with her son to give me leave to go to england , as i had desired , and to furnish me with a sufficient sum of money , either in goods along with me , or in bills for my support there , all along suggesting that he might one time or other think it proper to come over to me .
that when i was gone , she should then , in cold blood , and after first obliging him in the solemnest manner possible to secrecy , discover the case to him , doing it gradually , and as her own discretion should guide her , so that he might not be surprised with it , and fly out into any passions and excesses on my account , or on hers ; and that she should concern herself to prevent his slighting the children , or marrying again , unless he had a certain account of my being dead .
this was my scheme , and my reasons were good ; i was really alienated from him in the consequences of these things ; indeed , i mortally hated him as a husband , and it was impossible to remove that riveted aversion i had to him . at the same time , it being an unlawful , incestuous living , added to that aversion , and though i had no great concern about it in point of conscience , yet everything added to make cohabiting with him the most nauseous thing to me in the world ; and i think verily it was come to such a height , that i could almost as willingly have embraced a dog as have let him offer anything of that kind to me , for which reason i could not bear the thoughts of coming between the sheets with him . i cannot say that i was right in point of policy in carrying it such a length , while at the same time i did not resolve to discover the thing to him ; but i am giving an account of what was , not of what ought or ought not to be .
in their directly opposite opinion to one another my mother and i continued a long time , and it was impossible to reconcile our judgments ; many disputes we had about it , but we could never either of us yield our own , or bring over the other .
i insisted on my aversion to lying with my own brother , and she insisted upon its being impossible to bring him to consent to my going from him to england ; and in this uncertainty we continued , not differing so as to quarrel , or anything like it , but so as not to be able to resolve what we should do to make up that terrible breach that was before us . at last i resolved on a desperate course , and told my mother my resolution , viz. that , in short , i would tell him of it myself .
my mother was frighted to the last degree at the very thoughts of it ; but i bid her be easy , told her i would do it gradually and softly , and with all the art and good-humour i was mistress of , and time it also as well as i could , taking him in good-humour too .
i told her i did not question but , if i could be hypocrite enough to feign more affection to him than i really had , i should succeed in all my design , and we might part by consent , and with a good agreement , for i might live him well enough for a brother , though i could not for a husband .
all this while he lay at my mother to find out , if possible , what was the meaning of that dreadful expression of mine , as he called it , which i mentioned before : namely , that i was not his lawful wife , nor my children his legal children .
my mother put him off , told him she could bring me to no explanations , but found there was something that disturbed me very much , and she hoped she should get it out of me in time , and in the meantime recommended to him earnestly to use me more tenderly , and win me with his usual good carriage ; told him of his terrifying and affrighting me with his threats of sending me to a madhouse , and the like , and advised him not to make a woman desperate on any account whatever .
he promised her to soften his behaviour , and bid her assure me that he loved me as well as ever , and that he had so such design as that of sending me to a madhouse , whatever he might say in his passion ; also he desired my mother to use the same persuasions to me too , that our affections might be renewed , and we might lie together in a good understanding as we used to do .
i found the effects of this treaty presently . my husband 's conduct was immediately altered , and he was quite another man to me ; nothing could be kinder and more obliging than he was to me upon all occasions ; and i could do no less than make some return to it , which i did as well as i could , but it was but in an awkward manner at best , for nothing was more frightful to me than his caresses , and the apprehensions of being with child again by him was ready to throw me into fits ; and this made me see that there was an absolute necessity of breaking the case to him without any more delay , which , however , i did with all the caution and reserve imaginable .
he had continued his altered carriage to me near a month , and we began to live a new kind of life with one another ; and could i have satisfied myself to have gone on with it , i believe it might have continued as long as we had continued alive together .
one evening , as we were sitting and talking very friendly together under a little awning , which served as an arbour at the entrance from our house into the garden , he was in a very pleasant , agreeable humour , and said abundance of kind things to me relating to the pleasure of our present good agreement , and the disorders of our past breach , and what a satisfaction it was to him that we had room to hope we should never have any more of it .
i fetched a deep sigh , and told him there was nobody in the world could be more delighted than i was in the good agreement we had always kept up , or more afflicted with the breach of it , and should be so still ; but i was sorry to tell him that there was an unhappy circumstance in our case , which lay too close to my heart , and which i knew not how to break to him , that rendered my part of it very miserable , and took from me all the comfort of the rest .
he importuned me to tell him what it was . i told him i could not tell how to do it ; that while it was concealed from him i alone was unhappy , but if he knew it also , we should be both so ; and that , therefore , to keep him in the dark about it was the kindest thing that i could do , and it was on that account alone that i kept a secret from him , the very keeping of which , i thought , would first or last be my destruction .
it is impossible to express his surprise at this relation , and the double importunity which he used with me to discover it to him .
he told me i could not be called kind to him , nay , i could not be faithful to him if i concealed it from him .
i told him i thought so too , and yet i could not do it . he went back to what i had said before to him , and told me he hoped it did not relate to what i had said in my passion , and that he had resolved to forget all that as the effect of a rash , provoked spirit .
i told him i wished i could forget it all too , but that it was not to be done , the impression was too deep , and i could not do it : it was impossible .
he then told me he was resolved not to differ with me in anything , and that therefore he would importune me no more about it , resolving to acquiesce in whatever i did or said ; only begged i should then agree , that whatever it was , it should no more interrupt our quiet and our mutual kindness .
this was the most provoking thing he could have said to me , for i really wanted his further importunities , that i might be prevailed with to bring out that which indeed it was like death to me to conceal ; so i answered him plainly that i could not say i was glad not to be importuned , thought i could not tell how to comply .
'but come , my dear , ' said i , ' what conditions will you make with me upon the opening this affair to you ? '
'any conditions in the world , ' said he , ' that you can in reason desire of me . '
'well , ' said i , ' come , give it me under your hand , that if you do not find i am in any fault , or that i am willingly concerned in the causes of the misfortune that is to follow , you will not blame me , use me the worse , do my any injury , or make me be the sufferer for that which is not my fault . '
'that , ' says he , ' is the most reasonable demand in the world : not to blame you for that which is not your fault .
give me a pen and ink , ' says he ; so i ran in and fetched a pen , ink , and paper , and he wrote the condition down in the very words i had proposed it , and signed it with his name .
'well , ' says he , ' what is next , my dear ? '
'why , ' says i , ' the next is , that you will not blame me for not discovering the secret of it to you before i knew it . '
'very just again , ' says he ; ' with all my heart ' ; so he wrote down that also , and signed it .
'well , my dear , ' says i , ' then i have but one condition more to make with you , and that is , that as there is nobody concerned in it but you and i , you shall not discover it to any person in the world , except your own mother ; and that in all the measures you shall take upon the discovery , as i am equally concerned in it with you , though as innocent as yourself , you shall do nothing in a passion , nothing to my prejudice or to your mother 's prejudice , without my knowledge and consent . '
this a little amazed him , and he wrote down the words distinctly , but read them over and over before he signed them , hesitating at them several times , and repeating them : ' my mother 's prejudice ! and your prejudice !
what mysterious thing can this be ? ' however , at last he signed it .
'well , says i , ' my dear , i 'll ask you no more under your hand ; but as you are to hear the most unexpected and surprising thing that perhaps ever befell any family in the world , i beg you to promise me you will receive it with composure and a presence of mind suitable to a man of sense . '
'i 'll do my utmost , ' says he , ' upon condition you will keep me no longer in suspense , for you terrify me with all these preliminaries . '
'well , then , ' says i , ' it is this : as i told you before in a heat , that i was not your lawful wife , and that our children were not legal children , so i must let you know now in calmness and in kindness , but with affliction enough , that i am your own sister , and you my own brother , and that we are both the children of our mother now alive , and in the house , who is convinced of the truth of it , in a manner not to be denied or contradicted . '
i saw him turn pale and look wild ; and i said , ' now remember your promise , and receive it with presence of mind ; for who could have said more to prepare you for it than i have done ? '
however , i called a servant , and got him a little glass of rum ( which is the usual dram of that country ) , for he was just fainting away .
when he was a little recovered , i said to him , ' this story , you may be sure , requires a long explanation , and therefore , have patience and compose your mind to hear it out , and i 'll make it as short as i can ' ; and with this , i told him what i thought was needful of the fact , and particularly how my mother came to discover it to me , as above .
'and now , my dear , ' says i , ' you will see reason for my capitulations , and that i neither have been the cause of this matter , nor could be so , and that i could know nothing of it before now . '
'i am fully satisfied of that , ' says he , ' but ' tis a dreadful surprise to me ; however , i know a remedy for it all , and a remedy that shall put an end to your difficulties , without your going to england . '
'that would be strange , ' said i , ' as all the rest . '
'no , no , ' says he , ' i 'll make it easy ; there 's nobody in the way of it but myself . '
he looked a little disordered when he said this , but i did not apprehend anything from it at that time , believing , as it used to be said , that they who do those things never talk of them , or that they who talk of such things never do them .
but things were not come to their height with him , and i observed he became pensive and melancholy ; and in a word , as i thought , a little distempered in his head .
i endeavoured to talk him into temper , and to reason him into a kind of scheme for our government in the affair , and sometimes he would be well , and talk with some courage about it ; but the weight of it lay too heavy upon his thoughts , and , in short , it went so far that he made attempts upon himself , and in one of them had actually strangled himself and had not his mother come into the room in the very moment , he had died ; but with the help of a negro servant she cut him down and recovered him . things were now come to a lamentable height in the family .
in short , by an unwearied importunity , my husband , who was apparently decaying , as i observed , was at last prevailed with ; and so my own fate pushing me on , the way was made clear for me , and my mother concurring , i obtained a very good cargo for my coming to england .
when i parted with my brother ( for such i am now to call him ) , we agreed that after i arrived he should pretend to have an account that i was dead in england , and so might marry again when he would . he promised , and engaged to me to correspond with me as a sister , and to assist and support me as long as i lived ; and that if he died before me , he would leave sufficient to his mother to take care of me still , in the name of a sister , and he was in some respects careful of me , when he heard of me ; but it was so oddly managed that i felt the disappointments very sensibly afterwards , as you shall hear in its time .
i came away for england in the month of august , after i had been eight years in that country ; and now a new scene of misfortunes attended me , which perhaps few women have gone through the life of .
we had an indifferent good voyage till we came just upon the coast of england , and where we arrived in two-and-thirty days , but were then ruffled with two or three storms , one of which drove us away to the coast of ireland , and we put in at kinsdale .
we remained there about thirteen days , got some refreshment on shore , and put to sea again , though we met with very bad weather again , in which the ship sprung her mainmast , as they called it , for i knew not what they meant . but we got at last into milford haven , in wales , where , though it was remote from our port , yet having my foot safe upon the firm ground of my native country , the isle of britain , i resolved to venture it no more upon the waters , which had been so terrible to me ; so getting my clothes and money on shore , with my bills of loading and other papers , i resolved to come for london , and leave the ship to get to her port as she could ; the port whither she was bound was to bristol , where my brother 's chief correspondent lived .
i got to london in about three weeks , where i heard a little while after that the ship was arrived in bristol , but at the same time had the misfortune to know that by the violent weather she had been in , and the breaking of her mainmast , she had great damage on board , and that a great part of her cargo was spoiled . i had now a new scene of life upon my hands , and a dreadful appearance it had .
i was come away with a kind of final farewell . what i brought with me was indeed considerable , had it come safe , and by the help of it , i might have married again tolerably well ; but as it was , i was reduced to between two or three hundred pounds in the whole , and this without any hope of recruit .
i was entirely without friends , nay , even so much as without acquaintance , for i found it was absolutely necessary not to revive former acquaintances ; and as for my subtle friend that set me up formerly for a fortune , she was dead , and her husband also ; as i was informed , upon sending a person unknown to inquire .
the looking after my cargo of goods soon after obliged me to take a journey to bristol , and during my attendance upon that affair i took the diversion of going to the bath , for as i was still far from being old , so my humour , which was always gay , continued so to an extreme ; and being now , as it were , a woman of fortune though i was a woman without a fortune , i expected something or other might happen in my way that might mend my circumstances , as had been my case before .
the bath is a place of gallantry enough ; expensive , and full of snares . i went thither , indeed , in the view of taking anything that might offer , but i must do myself justice , as to protest i knew nothing amiss ; i meant nothing but in an honest way , nor had i any thoughts about me at first that looked the way which afterwards i suffered them to be guided .
here i stayed the whole latter season , as it is called there , and contracted some unhappy acquaintances , which rather prompted the follies i fell afterwards into than fortified me against them .
i lived pleasantly enough , kept good company , that is to say , gay , fine company ; but had the discouragement to find this way of living sunk me exceedingly , and that as i had no settled income , so spending upon the main stock was but a certain kind of bleeding to death ; and this gave me many sad reflections in the interval of my other thoughts .
however , i shook them off , and still flattered myself that something or other might offer for my advantage .
but i was in the wrong place for it . i was not now at redriff , where , if i had set myself tolerably up , some honest sea captain or other might have talked with me upon the honourable terms of matrimony ; but i was at the bath , where men find a mistress sometimes , but very rarely look for a wife ; and consequently all the particular acquaintances a woman can expect to make there must have some tendency that way .
i had spent the first season well enough ; for though i had contracted some acquaintance with a gentleman who came to the bath for his diversion , yet i had entered into no felonious treaty , as it might be called .
however , i went this length the first season , viz . i contracted an acquaintance with a woman in whose house i lodged , who , though she did not keep an ill house , as we call it , yet had none of the best principles in herself .
i had on all occasions behaved myself so well as not to get the least slur upon my reputation on any account whatever , and all the men that i had conversed with were of so good reputation that i had not given the least reflection by conversing with them ; nor did any of them seem to think there was room for a wicked correspondence , if they had any of them offered it ; yet there was one gentleman , as above , who always singled me out for the diversion of my company , as he called it , which , as he was pleased to say , was very agreeable to him , but at that time there was no more in it .
i had many melancholy hours at the bath after the company was gone ; for though i went to bristol sometime for the disposing my effects , and for recruits of money , yet i chose to come back to bath for my residence , because being on good terms with the woman in whose house i lodged in the summer , i found that during the winter i lived rather cheaper there than i could do anywhere else .
here , i say , i passed the winter as heavily as i had passed the autumn cheerfully ; but having contracted a nearer intimacy with the said woman in whose house i lodged , i could not avoid communicating to her something of what lay hardest upon my mind and particularly the narrowness of my circumstances , and the loss of my fortune by the damage of my goods at sea . i told her also , that i had a mother and a brother in virginia in good circumstances ; and as i had really written back to my mother in particular to represent my condition , and the great loss i had received , which indeed came to almost # 500 , so i did not fail to let my new friend know that i expected a supply from thence , and so indeed i did ; and as the ships went from bristol to york river , in virginia , and back again generally in less time from london , and that my brother corresponded chiefly at bristol , i thought it was much better for me to wait here for my returns than to go to london , where also i had not the least acquaintance .
my new friend appeared sensibly affected with my condition , and indeed was so very kind as to reduce the rate of my living with her to so low a price during the winter , that she convinced me she got nothing by me ; and as for lodging , during the winter i paid nothing at all .
when the spring season came on , she continued to be as kind to me as she could , and i lodged with her for a time , till it was found necessary to do otherwise . she had some persons of character that frequently lodged in her house , and in particular the gentleman who , as i said , singled me out for his companion the winter before ; and he came down again with another gentleman in his company and two servants , and lodged in the same house . i suspected that my landlady had invited him thither , letting him know that i was still with her ; but she denied it , and protested to me that she did not , and he said the same . in a word , this gentleman came down and continued to single me out for his peculiar confidence as well as conversation . he was a complete gentleman , that must be confessed , and his company was very agreeable to me , as mine , if i might believe him , was to him .
he made no professions to be but of an extraordinary respect , and he had such an opinion of my virtue , that , as he often professed , he believed if he should offer anything else , i should reject him with contempt . he soon understood from me that i was a widow ; that i had arrived at bristol from virginia by the last ships ; and that i waited at bath till the next virginia fleet should arrive , by which i expected considerable effects . i understood by him , and by others of him , that he had a wife , but that the lady was distempered in her head , and was under the conduct of her own relations , which he consented to , to avoid any reflections that might ( as was not unusual in such cases ) be cast on him for mismanaging her cure ; and in the meantime he came to the bath to divert his thoughts from the disturbance of such a melancholy circumstance as that was .
my landlady , who of her own accord encouraged the correspondence on all occasions , gave me an advantageous character of him , as a man of honour and of virtue , as well as of great estate .
and indeed i had a great deal of reason to say so of him too ; for though we lodged both on a floor , and he had frequently come into my chamber , even when i was in bed , and i also into his when he was in bed , yet he never offered anything to me further than a kiss , or so much as solicited me to anything till long after , as you shall hear .
i frequently took notice to my landlady of his exceeding modesty , and she again used to tell me , she believed it was so from the beginning ; however , she used to tell me that she thought i ought to expect some gratification from him for my company , for indeed he did , as it were , engross me , and i was seldom from him .
i told her i had not given him the least occasion to think i wanted it , or that i would accept of it from him . she told me she would take that part upon her , and she did so , and managed it so dexterously , that the first time we were together alone , after she had talked with him , he began to inquire a little into my circumstances , as how i had subsisted myself since i came on shore , and whether i did not want money . i stood off very boldly .
i told him that though my cargo of tobacco was damaged , yet that it was not quite lost ; that the merchant i had been consigned to had so honestly managed for me that i had not wanted , and that i hoped , with frugal management , i should make it hold out till more would come , which i expected by the next fleet ; that in the meantime i had retrenched my expenses , and whereas i kept a maid last season , now i lived without ; and whereas i had a chamber and a dining-room then on the first floor , as he knew , i now had but one room , two pair of stairs , and the like .
'but i live , ' said i , ' as well satisfied now as i did then ' ; adding , that his company had been a means to make me live much more cheerfully than otherwise i should have done , for which i was much obliged to him ; and so i put off all room for any offer for the present .
however , it was not long before he attacked me again , and told me he found that i was backward to trust him with the secret of my circumstances , which he was sorry for ; assuring me that he inquired into it with no design to satisfy his own curiosity , but merely to assist me , if there was any occasion ; but since i would not own myself to stand in need of any assistance , he had but one thing more to desire of me , and that was , that i would promise him that when i was any way straitened , or like to be so , i would frankly tell him of it , and that i would make use of him with the same freedom that he made the offer ; adding , that i should always find i had a true friend , though perhaps i was afraid to trust him .
i omitted nothing that was fit to be said by one infinitely obliged , to let him know that i had a due sense of his kindness ; and indeed from that time i did not appear so much reserved to him as i had done before , though still within the bounds of the strictest virtue on both sides ; but how free soever our conversation was , i could not arrive to that sort of freedom which he desired , viz. to tell him i wanted money , though i was secretly very glad of his offer .
some weeks passed after this , and still i never asked him for money ; when my landlady , a cunning creature , who had often pressed me to it , but found that i could not do it , makes a story of her own inventing , and comes in bluntly to me when we were together .
'oh , widow ! ' says she , ' i have bad news to tell you this morning . '
'what is that ? ' said i ; ' are the virginia ships taken by the french ? ' --for that was my fear .
'no , no , ' says she , ' but the man you sent to bristol yesterday for money is come back , and says he has brought none . '
now i could by no means like her project ; i though it looked too much like prompting him , which indeed he did not want , and i clearly saw that i should lose nothing by being backward to ask , so i took her up short .
'i can 't image why he should say so to you , ' said i , ' for i assure you he brought me all the money i sent him for , and here it is , ' said i ( pulling out my purse with about twelve guineas in it ) ; and added , ' i intend you shall have most of it by and by . '
he seemed distasted a little at her talking as she did at first , as well as i , taking it , as i fancied he would , as something forward of her ; but when he saw me give such an answer , he came immediately to himself again .
the next morning we talked of it again , when i found he was fully satisfied , and , smiling , said he hoped i would not want money and not tell him of it , and that i had promised him otherwise .
i told him i had been very much dissatisfied at my landlady 's talking so publicly the day before of what she had nothing to do with ; but i supposed she wanted what i owed her , which was about eight guineas , which i had resolved to give her , and had accordingly given it her the same night she talked so foolishly .
he was in a might good humour when he heard me say i had paid her , and it went off into some other discourse at that time . but the next morning , he having heard me up about my room before him , he called to me , and i answering , he asked me to come into his chamber .
he was in bed when i came in , and he made me come and sit down on his bedside , for he said he had something to say to me which was of some moment .
after some very kind expressions , he asked me if i would be very honest to him , and give a sincere answer to one thing he would desire of me .
after some little cavil at the word ' sincere , ' and asking him if i had ever given him any answers which were not sincere , i promised him i would .
why , then , his request was , he said , to let him see my purse . i immediately put my hand into my pocket , and , laughing to him , pulled it out , and there was in it three guineas and a half . then he asked me if there was all the money i had . i told him no , laughing again , not by a great deal .
well , then , he said , he would have me promise to go and fetch him all the money i had , every farthing . i told him i would , and i went into my chamber and fetched him a little private drawer , where i had about six guineas more , and some silver , and threw it all down upon the bed , and told him there was all my wealth , honestly to a shilling . he looked a little at it , but did not tell it , and huddled it all into the drawer again , and then reaching his pocket , pulled out a key , and bade me open a little walnut-tree box he had upon the table , and bring him such a drawer , which i did . in which drawer there was a great deal of money in gold , i believe near two hundred guineas , but i knew not how much .
he took the drawer , and taking my hand , made me put it in and take a whole handful . i was backward at that , but he held my hand hard in his hand , and put it into the drawer , and made me take out as many guineas almost as i could well take up at once .
when i had done so , he made me put them into my lap , and took my little drawer , and poured out all my money among his , and bade me get me gone , and carry it all home into my own chamber .
i relate this story the more particularly because of the good-humour there was in it , and to show the temper with which we conversed .
it was not long after this but he began every day to find fault with my clothes , with my laces and headdresses , and , in a word , pressed me to buy better ; which , by the way , i was willing enough to do , though i did not seem to be so , for i loved nothing in the world better than fine clothes . i told him i must housewife the money he had lent me , or else i should not be able to pay him again .
he then told me , in a few words , that as he had a sincere respect for me , and knew my circumstances , he had not lent me that money , but given it me , and that he thought i had merited it from him by giving him my company so entirely as i had done .
after this he made me take a maid , and keep house , and his friend that come with him to bath being gone , he obliged me to diet him , which i did very willingly , believing , as it appeared , that i should lose nothing by it , nor did the woman of the house fail to find her account in it too .
we had lived thus near three months , when the company beginning to wear away at the bath , he talked of going away , and fain he would have me to go to london with him . i was not very easy in that proposal , not knowing what posture i was to live in there , or how he might use me . but while this was in debate he fell very sick ; he had gone out to a place in somersetshire , called shepton , where he had some business and was there taken very ill , and so ill that he could not travel ; so he sent his man back to bath , to beg me that i would hire a coach and come over to him .
before he went , he had left all his money and other things of value with me , and what to do with them i did not know , but i secured them as well as i could , and locked up the lodgings and went to him , where i found him very ill indeed ; however , i persuaded him to be carried in a litter to the bath , where there was more help and better advice to be had .
he consented , and i brought him to the bath , which was about fifteen miles , as i remember . here he continued very ill of a fever , and kept his bed five weeks , all which time i nursed him and tended him myself , as much and as carefully as if i had been his wife ; indeed , if i had been his wife i could not have done more .
i sat up with him so much and so often , that at last , indeed , he would not let me sit up any longer , and then i got a pallet-bed into his room , and lay in it just at his bed 's feet . i was indeed sensibly affected with his condition , and with the apprehension of losing such a friend as he was , and was like to be to me , and i used to sit and cry by him many hours together .
however , at last he grew better , and gave hopes that he would recover , as indeed he did , though very slowly . were it otherwise than what i am going to say , i should not be backward to disclose it , as it is apparent i have done in other cases in this account ; but i affirm , that through all this conversation , abating the freedom of coming into the chamber when i or he was in bed , and abating the necessary offices of attending him night and day when he was sick , there had not passed the least immodest word or action between us .
oh that it had been so to the last !
after some time he gathered strength and grew well apace , and i would have removed my pallet-bed , but he would not let me , till he was able to venture himself without anybody to sit up with him , and then i removed to my own chamber .
he took many occasions to express his sense of my tenderness and concern for him ; and when he grew quite well , he made me a present of fifty guineas for my care and , as he called it , for hazarding my life to save his .
and now he made deep protestations of a sincere inviolable affection for me , but all along attested it to be with the utmost reserve for my virtue and his own . i told him i was fully satisfied of it . he carried it that length that he protested to me , that if he was naked in bed with me , he would as sacredly preserve my virtue as he would defend it if i was assaulted by a ravisher .
i believed him , and told him i did so ; but this did not satisfy him , he would , he said , wait for some opportunity to give me an undoubted testimony of it .
it was a great while after this that i had occasion , on my own business , to go to bristol , upon which he hired me a coach , and would go with me , and did so ; and now indeed our intimacy increased .
from bristol he carried me to gloucester , which was merely a journey of pleasure , to take the air ; and here it was our hap to have no lodging in the inn but in one large chamber with two beds in it .
the master of the house going up with us to show his rooms , and coming into that room , said very frankly to him , ' sir , it is none of my business to inquire whether the lady be your spouse or no , but if not , you may lie as honestly in these two beds as if you were in two chambers , ' and with that he pulls a great curtain which drew quite across the room and effectually divided the beds .
'well , ' says my friend , very readily , ' these beds will do , and as for the rest , we are too near akin to lie together , though we may lodge near one another ' ; and this put an honest face on the thing too .
when we came to go to bed , he decently went out of the room till i was in bed , and then went to bed in the bed on his own side of the room , but lay there talking to me a great while .
at last , repeating his usual saying , that he could lie naked in the bed with me and not offer me the least injury , he starts out of his bed .
'and now , my dear , ' says he , ' you shall see how just i will be to you , and that i can keep my word , ' and away he comes to my bed .
i resisted a little , but i must confess i should not have resisted him much if he had not made those promises at all ; so after a little struggle , as i said , i lay still and let him come to bed .
when he was there he took me in his arms , and so i lay all night with him , but he had no more to do with me , or offered anything to me , other than embracing me , as i say , in his arms , no , not the whole night , but rose up and dressed him in the morning , and left me as innocent for him as i was the day i was born . this was a surprising thing to me , and perhaps may be so to others , who know how the laws of nature work ; for he was a strong , vigorous , brisk person ; nor did he act thus on a principle of religion at all , but of mere affection ; insisting on it , that though i was to him to most agreeable woman in the world , yet , because he loved me , he could not injure me .
i own it was a noble principle , but as it was what i never understood before , so it was to me perfectly amazing .
we traveled the rest of the journey as we did before , and came back to the bath , where , as he had opportunity to come to me when he would , he often repeated the moderation , and i frequently lay with him , and he with me , and although all the familiarities between man and wife were common to us , yet he never once offered to go any farther , and he valued himself much upon it .
i do not say that i was so wholly pleased with it as he thought i was , for i own much wickeder than he , as you shall hear presently .
we lived thus near two years , only with this exception , that he went three times to london in that time , and once he continued there four months ; but , to do him justice , he always supplied me with money to subsist me very handsomely .
had we continued thus , i confess we had had much to boast of ; but as wise men say , it is ill venturing too near the brink of a command , so we found it ; and here again i must do him the justice to own that the first breach was not on his part .
it was one night that we were in bed together warm and merry , and having drunk , i think , a little more wine that night , both of us , than usual , although not in the least to disorder either of us , when , after some other follies which i cannot name , and being clasped close in his arms , i told him ( i repeat it with shame and horror of soul ) that i could find in my heart to discharge him of his engagement for one night and no more .
he took me at my word immediately , and after that there was no resisting him ; neither indeed had i any mind to resist him any more , let what would come of it .
thus the government of our virtue was broken , and i exchanged the place of friend for that unmusical , harsh-sounding title of whore .
in the morning we were both at our penitentials ; i cried very heartily , he expressed himself very sorry ; but that was all either of us could do at that time , and the way being thus cleared , and the bars of virtue and conscience thus removed , we had the less difficult afterwards to struggle with .
it was but a dull kind of conversation that we had together for all the rest of that week ; i looked on him with blushes , and every now and then started that melancholy objection , ' what if i should be with child now ? what will become of me then ? '
he encouraged me by telling me , that as long as i was true to him , he would be so to me ; and since it was gone such a length ( which indeed he never intended ) , yet if i was with child , he would take care of that , and of me too .
this hardened us both . i assured him if i was with child , i would die for want of a midwife rather than name him as the father of it ; and he assured me i should never want if i should be with child .
these mutual assurances hardened us in the thing , and after this we repeated the crime as often as we pleased , till at length , as i had feared , so it came to pass , and i was indeed with child .
after i was sure it was so , and i had satisfied him of it too , we began to think of taking measures for the managing it , and i proposed trusting the secret to my landlady , and asking her advice , which he agreed to . my landlady , a woman ( as i found ) used to such things , made light of it ; she said she knew it would come to that at last , and made us very merry about it . as i said above , we found her an experienced old lady at such work ; she undertook everything , engaged to procure a midwife and a nurse , to satisfy all inquiries , and bring us off with reputation , and she did so very dexterously indeed .
when i grew near my time she desired my gentleman to go away to london , or make as if he did so . when he was gone , she acquainted the parish officers that there was a lady ready to lie in at her house , but that she knew her husband very well , and gave them , as she pretended , an account of his name , which she called sir walter cleve ; telling them he was a very worthy gentleman , and that she would answer for all inquiries , and the like .
this satisfied the parish officers presently , and i lay in with as much credit as i could have done if i had really been my lady cleve , and was assisted in my travail by three or four of the best citizens ' wives of bath who lived in the neighbourhood , which , however , made me a little the more expensive to him . i often expressed my concern to him about it , but he bid me not be concerned at it .
as he had furnished me very sufficiently with money for the extraordinary expenses of my lying in , i had everything very handsome about me , but did not affect to be gay or extravagant neither ; besides , knowing my own circumstances , and knowing the world as i had done , and that such kind of things do not often last long , i took care to lay up as much money as i could for a wet day , as i called it ; making him believe it was all spent upon the extraordinary appearance of things in my lying in .
by this means , and including what he had given me as above , i had at the end of my lying in about two hundred guineas by me , including also what was left of my own .
i was brought to bed of a fine boy indeed , and a charming child it was ; and when he heard of it he wrote me a very kind , obliging letter about it , and then told me , he thought it would look better for me to come away for london as soon as i was up and well ; that he had provided apartments for me at hammersmith , as if i came thither only from london ; and that after a little while i should go back to the bath , and he would go with me .
i liked this offer very well , and accordingly hired a coach on purpose , and taking my child , and a wet-nurse to tend and suckle it , and a maid-servant with me , away i went for london .
he met me at reading in his own chariot , and taking me into that , left the servant and the child in the hired coach , and so he brought me to my new lodgings at hammersmith ; with which i had abundance of reason to be very well pleased , for they were very handsome rooms , and i was very well accommodated .
and now i was indeed in the height of what i might call my prosperity , and i wanted nothing but to be a wife , which , however , could not be in this case , there was no room for it ; and therefore on all occasions i studied to save what i could , as i have said above , against a time of scarcity , knowing well enough that such things as these do not always continue ; that men that keep mistresses often change them , grow weary of them , or jealous of them , or something or other happens to make them withdraw their bounty ; and sometimes the ladies that are thus well used are not careful by a prudent conduct to preserve the esteem of their persons , or the nice article of their fidelity , and then they are justly cast off with contempt .
but i was secured in this point , for as i had no inclination to change , so i had no manner of acquaintance in the whole house , and so no temptation to look any farther . i kept no company but in the family when i lodged , and with the clergyman 's lady at next door ; so that when he was absent i visited nobody , nor did he ever find me out of my chamber or parlour whenever he came down ; if i went anywhere to take the air , it was always with him .
the living in this manner with him , and his with me , was certainly the most undesigned thing in the world ; he often protested to me , that when he became first acquainted with me , and even to the very night when we first broke in upon our rules , he never had the least design of lying with me ; that he always had a sincere affection for me , but not the least real inclination to do what he had done . i assured him i never suspected him ; that if i had i should not so easily have yielded to the freedom which brought it on , but that it was all a surprise , and was owing to the accident of our having yielded too far to our mutual inclinations that night ; and indeed i have often observed since , and leave it as a caution to the readers of this story , that we ought to be cautious of gratifying our inclinations in loose and lewd freedoms , lest we find our resolutions of virtue fail us in the junction when their assistance should be most necessary .
it is true , and i have confessed it before , that from the first hour i began to converse with him , i resolved to let him lie with me , if he offered it ; but it was because i wanted his help and assistance , and i knew no other way of securing him than that . but when were that night together , and , as i have said , had gone such a length , i found my weakness ; the inclination was not to be resisted , but i was obliged to yield up all even before he asked it .
however , he was so just to me that he never upbraided me with that ; nor did he ever express the least dislike of my conduct on any other occasion , but always protested he was as much delighted with my company as he was the first hour we came together : i mean , came together as bedfellows .
it is true that he had no wife , that is to say , she was as no wife to him , and so i was in no danger that way , but the just reflections of conscience oftentimes snatch a man , especially a man of sense , from the arms of a mistress , as it did him at last , though on another occasion . on the other hand , though i was not without secret reproaches of my own conscience for the life i led , and that even in the greatest height of the satisfaction i ever took , yet i had the terrible prospect of poverty and starving , which lay on me as a frightful spectre , so that there was no looking behind me . but as poverty brought me into it , so fear of poverty kept me in it , and i frequently resolved to leave it quite off , if i could but come to lay up money enough to maintain me . but these were thoughts of no weight , and whenever he came to me they vanished ; for his company was so delightful , that there was no being melancholy when he was there ; the reflections were all the subject of those hours when i was alone .
i lived six years in this happy but unhappy condition , in which time i brought him three children , but only the first of them lived ; and though i removed twice in those six years , yet i came back the sixth year to my first lodgings at hammersmith .
here it was that i was one morning surprised with a kind but melancholy letter from my gentleman , intimating that he was very ill , and was afraid he should have another fit of sickness , but that his wife 's relations being in the house with him , it would not be practicable to have me with him , which , however , he expressed his great dissatisfaction in , and that he wished i could be allowed to tend and nurse him as i did before . i was very much concerned at this account , and was very impatient to know how it was with him .
i waited a fortnight or thereabouts , and heard nothing , which surprised me , and i began to be very uneasy indeed . i think , i may say , that for the next fortnight i was near to distracted . it was my particular difficulty that i did not know directly where he was ; for i understood at first he was in the lodgings of his wife 's mother ; but having removed myself to london , i soon found , by the help of the direction i had for writing my letters to him , how to inquire after him , and there i found that he was at a house in bloomsbury , whither he had , a little before he fell sick , removed his whole family ; and that his wife and wife 's mother were in the same house , though the wife was not suffered to know that she was in the same house with her husband .
here i also soon understood that he was at the last extremity , which made me almost at the last extremity too , to have a true account .
one night i had the curiosity to disguise myself like a servant-maid , in a round cap and straw hat , and went to the door , as sent by a lady of his neighbourhood , where he lived before , and giving master and mistress 's service , i said i was sent to know how mr. ---- did , and how he had rested that night .
in delivering this message i got the opportunity i desired ; for , speaking with one of the maids , i held a long gossip 's tale with her , and had all the particulars of his illness , which i found was a pleurisy , attended with a cough and a fever . she told me also who was in the house , and how his wife was , who , by her relation , they were in some hopes might recover her understanding ; but as to the gentleman himself , in short she told me the doctors said there was very little hopes of him , that in the morning they thought he had been dying , and that he was but little better then , for they did not expect that he could live over the next night .
this was heavy news for me , and i began now to see an end of my prosperity , and to see also that it was very well i had played to good housewife , and secured or saved something while he was alive , for that now i had no view of my own living before me .
it lay very heavy upon my mind , too , that i had a son , a fine lovely boy , about five years old , and no provision made for it , at least that i knew of . with these considerations , and a sad heart , i went home that evening , and began to cast with myself how i should live , and in what manner to bestow myself , for the residue of my life .
you may be sure i could not rest without inquiring again very quickly what was become of him ; and not venturing to go myself , i sent several sham messengers , till after a fortnight 's waiting longer , i found that there was hopes of his life , though he was still very ill ; then i abated my sending any more to the house , and in some time after i learned in the neighbourhood that he was about house , and then that he was abroad again . i made no doubt then but that i should soon hear of him , and began to comfort myself with my circumstances being , as i thought , recovered .
i waited a week , and two weeks , and with much surprise and amazement i waited near two months and heard nothing , but that , being recovered , he was gone into the country for the air , and for the better recovery after his distemper . after this it was yet two months more , and then i understood he was come to his city house again , but still i heard nothing from him .
i had written several letters for him , and directed them as usual , and found two or three of them had been called for , but not the rest .
i wrote again in a more pressing manner than ever , and in one of them let him know , that i must be forced to wait on him myself , representing my circumstances , the rent of lodgings to pay , and the provision for the child wanting , and my own deplorable condition , destitute of subsistence for his most solemn engagement to take care of and provide for me . i took a copy of this letter , and finding it lay at the house near a month and was not called for , i found means to have the copy of it put into his own hands at a coffee-house , where i had by inquiry found he used to go .
this letter forced an answer from him , by which , though i found i was to be abandoned , yet i found he had sent a letter to me some time before , desiring me to go down to the bath again . its contents i shall come to presently .
it is true that sick-beds are the time when such correspondences as this are looked on with different countenances , and seen with other eyes than we saw them with , or than they appeared with before . my lover had been at the gates of death , and at the very brink of eternity ; and , it seems , had been struck with a due remorse , and with sad reflections upon his past life of gallantry and levity ; and among the rest , criminal correspondence with me , which was neither more nor less than a long-continued life of adultery , and represented itself as it really was , not as it had been formerly thought by him to be , and he looked upon it now with a just and religious abhorrence .
i found it so here , though good manners and justice in this gentleman kept him from carrying it on to any extreme but the short history of his part in this affair was thus : he perceived by my last letter , and by all the rest , which he went for after , that i was not gone to bath , that his first letter had not come to my hand ; upon which he write me this following : --
'madam , --i am surprised that my letter , dated the 8th of last month , did not come to your hand ; i give you my word it was delivered at your lodgings , and to the hands of your maid .
'i need not acquaint you with what has been my condition for some time past ; and how , having been at the edge of the grave , i am , by the unexpected and undeserved mercy of heaven , restored again . in the condition i have been in , it cannot be strange to you that our unhappy correspondence had not been the least of the burthens which lay upon my conscience . i need say no more ; those things that must be repented of , must be also reformed . i wish you would think of going back to the bath .
i enclose you here a bill for # 50 for clearing yourself at your lodgings , and carrying you down , and hope it will be no surprise to you to add , that on this account only , and not for any offence given me on your side , i can see you no more .
i will take due care of the child ; leave him where he is , or take him with you , as you please . i wish you the like reflections , and that they may be to your advantage.--i am , ' etc .
i was struck with this letter as with a thousand wounds , such as i cannot describe ; the reproaches of my own conscience were such as i cannot express , for i was not blind to my own crime ; and i reflected that i might with less offence have continued with my brother , and lived with him as a wife , since there was no crime in our marriage on that score , neither of us knowing it .
but i never once reflected that i was all this while a married woman , a wife to mr. ---- the linen-draper , who , though he had left me by the necessity of his circumstances , had no power to discharge me from the marriage contract which was between us , or to give me a legal liberty to marry again ; so that i had been no less than a whore and an adulteress all this while .
i then reproached myself with the liberties i had taken , and how i had been a snare to this gentleman , and that indeed i was principal in the crime ; that now he was mercifully snatched out of the gulf by a convincing work upon his mind , but that i was left as if i was forsaken of god 's grace , and abandoned by heaven to a continuing in my wickedness .
under these reflections i continued very pensive and sad for near month , and did not go down to the bath , having no inclination to be with the woman whom i was with before ; lest , as i thought , she should prompt me to some wicked course of life again , as she had done ; and besides , i was very loth she should know i was cast off as above .
and now i was greatly perplexed about my little boy . it was death to me to part with the child , and yet when i considered the danger of being one time or other left with him to keep without a maintenance to support him , i then resolved to leave him where he was ; but then i concluded also to be near him myself too , that i then might have the satisfaction of seeing him , without the care of providing for him .
i sent my gentleman a short letter , therefore , that i had obeyed his orders in all things but that of going back to the bath , which i could not think of for many reasons ; that however parting from him was a wound to me that i could never recover , yet that i was fully satisfied his reflections were just , and would be very far from desiring to obstruct his reformation or repentance .
then i represented my own circumstances to him in the most moving terms that i was able .
i told him that those unhappy distresses which first moved him to a generous and an honest friendship for me , would , i hope , move him to a little concern for me now , though the criminal part of our correspondence , which i believed neither of us intended to fall into at the time , was broken off ; that i desired to repent as sincerely as he had done , but entreated him to put me in some condition that i might not be exposed to the temptations which the devil never fails to excite us to from the frightful prospect of poverty and distress ; and if he had the least apprehensions of my being troublesome to him , i begged he would put me in a posture to go back to my mother in virginia , from when he knew i came , and that would put an end to all his fears on that account . i concluded , that if he would send me # 50 more to facilitate my going away , i would send him back a general release , and would promise never to disturb him more with any importunities ; unless it was to hear of the well-doing of the child , whom , if i found my mother living and my circumstances able , i would send for to come over to me , and take him also effectually off his hands .
this was indeed all a cheat thus far , viz. that i had no intention to go to virginia , as the account of my former affairs there may convince anybody of ; but the business was to get this last # 50 of him , if possible , knowing well enough it would be the last penny i was ever to expect .
however , the argument i used , namely , of giving him a general release , and never troubling him any more , prevailed effectually with him , and he sent me a bill for the money by a person who brought with him a general release for me to sign , and which i frankly signed , and received the money ; and thus , though full sore against my will , a final end was put to this affair .
i was now a single person again , as i may call myself ; i was loosed from all the obligations either of wedlock or mistress-ship in the world , except my husband the linen-draper , whom , i having not now heard from in almost fifteen years , nobody could blame me for thinking myself entirely freed from ; seeing also he had at his going away told me , that if i did not hear frequently from him , i should conclude he was dead , and i might freely marry again to whom i pleased . i now began to cast up my accounts .
i had by many letters and much importunity , and with the intercession of my mother too , had a second return of some goods from my brother ( as i now call him ) in virginia , to make up the damage of the cargo i brought away with me , and this too was upon the condition of my sealing a general release to him , and to send it him by his correspondent at bristol , which , though i thought hard of , yet i was obliged to promise to do .
however , i managed so well in this case , that i got my goods away before the release was signed , and then i always found something or other to say to evade the thing , and to put off the signing it at all ; till at length i pretended i must write to my brother , and have his answer , before i could do it .
including this recruit , and before i got the last # 50 , i found my strength to amount , put all together , to about # 400 , so that with that i had about # 450 .
i had saved above # 100 more , but i met with a disaster with that , which was this--that a goldsmith in whose hands i had trusted it , broke , so i lost # 70 of my money , the man 's composition not making above # 30 out of his # 100 .
i had a little plate , but not much , and was well enough stocked with clothes and linen .
with this stock i had the world to begin again ; but you are to consider that i was not now the same woman as when i lived at redriff ; for , first of all , i was near twenty years older , and did not look the better for my age , nor for my rambles to virginia and back again ; and though i omitted nothing that might set me out to advantage , except painting , for that i never stooped to , and had pride enough to think i did not want it , yet there would always be some difference seen between five-and-twenty and two-and-forty .
i cast about innumerable ways for my future state of life , and began to consider very seriously what i should do , but nothing offered .
i took care to make the world take me for something more than i was , and had it given out that i was a fortune , and that my estate was in my own hands ; the last of which was very true , the first of it was as above .
i had no acquaintance , which was one of my worst misfortunes , and the consequence of that was , i had no adviser , at least who could assist and advise together ; and above all , i had nobody to whom i could in confidence commit the secret of my circumstances to , and could depend upon for their secrecy and fidelity ; and i found by experience , that to be friendless is the worst condition , next to being in want that a woman can be reduced to : i say a woman , because ' tis evident men can be their own advisers , and their own directors , and know how to work themselves out of difficulties and into business better than women ; but if a woman has no friend to communicate her affairs to , and to advise and assist her , ' tis ten to one but she is undone ; nay , and the more money she has , the more danger she is in of being wronged and deceived ; and this was my case in the affair of the # 100 which i left in the hands of the goldsmith , as above , whose credit , it seems , was upon the ebb before , but i , that had no knowledge of things and nobody to consult with , knew nothing of it , and so lost my money .
in the next place , when a woman is thus left desolate and void of counsel , she is just like a bag of money or a jewel dropped on the highway , which is a prey to the next comer ; if a man of virtue and upright principles happens to find it , he will have it cried , and the owner may come to hear of it again ; but how many times shall such a thing fall into hands that will make no scruple of seizing it for their own , to once that it shall come into good hands ?
this was evidently my case , for i was now a loose , unguided creature , and had no help , no assistance , no guide for my conduct ; i knew what i aimed at and what i wanted , but knew nothing how to pursue the end by direct means . i wanted to be placed in a settle state of living , and had i happened to meet with a sober , good husband , i should have been as faithful and true a wife to him as virtue itself could have formed .
if i had been otherwise , the vice came in always at the door of necessity , not at the door of inclination ; and i understood too well , by the want of it , what the value of a settled life was , to do anything to forfeit the felicity of it ; nay , i should have made the better wife for all the difficulties i had passed through , by a great deal ; nor did i in any of the time that i had been a wife give my husbands the least uneasiness on account of my behaviour .
but all this was nothing ; i found no encouraging prospect . i waited ; i lived regularly , and with as much frugality as became my circumstances , but nothing offered , nothing presented , and the main stock wasted apace . what to do i knew not ; the terror of approaching poverty lay hard upon my spirits . i had some money , but where to place it i knew not , nor would the interest of it maintain me , at least not in london .
at length a new scene opened .
there was in the house where i lodged a north-country woman that went for a gentlewoman , and nothing was more frequent in her discourse than her account of the cheapness of provisions , and the easy way of living in her country ; how plentiful and how cheap everything was , what good company they kept , and the like ; till at last i told her she almost tempted me to go and live in her country ; for i that was a widow , though i had sufficient to live on , yet had no way of increasing it ; and that i found i could not live here under # 100 a year , unless i kept no company , no servant , made no appearance , and buried myself in privacy , as if i was obliged to it by necessity .
i should have observed , that she was always made to believe , as everybody else was , that i was a great fortune , or at least that i had three or four thousand pounds , if not more , and all in my own hands ; and she was mighty sweet upon me when she thought me inclined in the least to go into her country . she said she had a sister lived near liverpool , that her brother was a considerable gentleman there , and had a great estate also in ireland ; that she would go down there in about two months , and if i would give her my company thither , i should be as welcome as herself for a month or more as i pleased , till i should see how i liked the country ; and if i thought fit to live there , she would undertake they would take care , though they did not entertain lodgers themselves , they would recommend me to some agreeable family , where i should be placed to my content .
if this woman had known my real circumstances , she would never have laid so many snares , and taken so many weary steps to catch a poor desolate creature that was good for little when it was caught ; and indeed i , whose case was almost desperate , and thought i could not be much worse , was not very anxious about what might befall me , provided they did me no personal injury ; so i suffered myself , though not without a great deal of invitation and great professions of sincere friendship and real kindness--i say , i suffered myself to be prevailed upon to go with her , and accordingly i packed up my baggage , and put myself in a posture for a journey , though i did not absolutely know whither i was to go .
and now i found myself in great distress ; what little i had in the world was all in money , except as before , a little plate , some linen , and my clothes ; as for my household stuff , i had little or none , for i had lived always in lodgings ; but i had not one friend in the world with whom to trust that little i had , or to direct me how to dispose of it , and this perplexed me night and day . i thought of the bank , and of the other companies in london , but i had no friend to commit the management of it to , and keep and carry about with me bank bills , tallies , orders , and such things , i looked upon at as unsafe ; that if they were lost , my money was lost , and then i was undone ; and , on the other hand , i might be robbed and perhaps murdered in a strange place for them . this perplexed me strangely , and what to do i knew not .
it came in my thoughts one morning that i would go to the bank myself , where i had often been to receive the interest of some bills i had , which had interest payable on them , and where i had found a clerk , to whom i applied myself , very honest and just to me , and particularly so fair one time that when i had mistold my money , and taken less than my due , and was coming away , he set me to rights and gave me the rest , which he might have put into his own pocket .
i went to him and represented my case very plainly , and asked if he would trouble himself to be my adviser , who was a poor friendless widow , and knew not what to do .
he told me , if i desired his opinion of anything within the reach of his business , he would do his endeavour that i should not be wronged , but that he would also help me to a good sober person who was a grave man of his acquaintance , who was a clerk in such business too , though not in their house , whose judgment was good , and whose honesty i might depend upon .
'for , ' added he , ' i will answer for him , and for every step he takes ; if he wrongs you , madam , of one farthing , it shall lie at my door , i will make it good ; and he delights to assist people in such cases--he does it as an act of charity . '
i was a little at a stand in this discourse ; but after some pause i told him i had rather have depended upon him , because i had found him honest , but if that could not be , i would take his recommendation sooner than any one 's else .
'i dare say , madam , ' says he , ' that you will be as well satisfied with my friend as with me , and he is thoroughly able to assist you , which i am not . '
it seems he had his hands full of the business of the bank , and had engaged to meddle with no other business that that of his office , which i heard afterwards , but did not understand then . he added , that his friend should take nothing of me for his advice or assistance , and this indeed encouraged me very much .
he appointed the same evening , after the bank was shut and business over , for me to meet him and his friend .
and indeed as soon as i saw his friend , and he began but to talk of the affair , i was fully satisfied that i had a very honest man to deal with ; his countenance spoke it , and his character , as i heard afterwards , was everywhere so good , that i had no room for any more doubts upon me .
after the first meeting , in which i only said what i had said before , we parted , and he appointed me to come the next day to him , telling me i might in the meantime satisfy myself of him by inquiry , which , however , i knew not how well to do , having no acquaintance myself .
accordingly i met him the next day , when i entered more freely with him into my case . i told him my circumstances at large : that i was a widow come over from america , perfectly desolate and friendless ; that i had a little money , and but a little , and was almost distracted for fear of losing it , having no friend in the world to trust with the management of it ; that i was going into the north of england to live cheap , that my stock might not waste ; that i would willingly lodge my money in the bank , but that i durst not carry the bills about me , and the like , as above ; and how to correspond about it , or with whom , i knew not .
he told me i might lodge the money in the bank as an account , and its being entered into the books would entitle me to the money at any time , and if i was in the north i might draw bills on the cashier and receive it when i would ; but that then it would be esteemed as running cash , and the bank would give no interest for it ; that i might buy stock with it , and so it would lie in store for me , but that then if i wanted to dispose if it , i must come up to town on purpose to transfer it , and even it would be with some difficulty i should receive the half-yearly dividend , unless i was here in person , or had some friend i could trust with having the stock in his name to do it for me , and that would have the same difficulty in it as before ; and with that he looked hard at me and smiled a little .
at last , says he , ' why do you not get a head steward , madam , that may take you and your money together into keeping , and then you would have the trouble taken off your hands ? '
'ay , sir , and the money too , it may be , ' said i ; ' for truly i find the hazard that way is as much as ' tis t 'other way ' ; but i remember i said secretly to myself , ' i wish you would ask me the question fairly , i would consider very seriously on it before i said no . '
he went on a good way with me , and i thought once or twice he was in earnest , but to my real affliction , i found at last he had a wife ; but when he owned he had a wife he shook his head , and said with some concern , that indeed he had a wife , and no wife .
i began to think he had been in the condition of my late lover , and that his wife had been distempered or lunatic , or some such thing .
however , we had not much more discourse at that time , but he told me he was in too much hurry of business then , but that if i would come home to his house after their business was over , he would by that time consider what might be done for me , to put my affairs in a posture of security .
i told him i would come , and desired to know where he lived .
he gave me a direction in writing , and when he gave it me he read it to me , and said , ' there ' tis , madam , if you dare trust yourself with me . ' ' yes , sir , ' said i , ' i believe i may venture to trust you with myself , for you have a wife , you say , and i don 't want a husband ; besides , i dare trust you with my money , which is all i have in the world , and if that were gone , i may trust myself anywhere . '
he said some things in jest that were very handsome and mannerly , and would have pleased me very well if they had been in earnest ; but that passed over , i took the directions , and appointed to attend him at his house at seven o 'clock the same evening .
when i came he made several proposals for my placing my money in the bank , in order to my having interest for it ; but still some difficulty or other came in the way , which he objected as not safe ; and i found such a sincere disinterested honesty in him , that i began to muse with myself , that i had certainly found the honest man i wanted , and that i could never put myself into better hands ; so i told him with a great deal of frankness that i had never met with a man or woman yet that i could trust , or in whom i could think myself safe , but that i saw he was so disinterestedly concerned for my safety , that i said i would freely trust him with the management of that little i had , if he would accept to be steward for a poor widow that could give him no salary .
he smiled and , standing up , with great respect saluted me . he told me he could not but take it very kindly that i had so good an opinion of him ; that he would not deceive me , that he would do anything in his power to serve me , and expect no salary ; but that he could not by any means accept of a trust , that it might bring him to be suspected of self-interest , and that if i should die he might have disputes with my executors , which he should be very loth to encumber himself with .
i told him if those were all his objections i would soon remove them , and convince him that there was not the least room for any difficulty ; for that , first , as for suspecting him , if ever i should do it , now is the time to suspect him , and not put the trust into his hands , and whenever i did suspect him , he could but throw it up then and refuse to go any further . then , as to executors , i assured him i had no heirs , nor any relations in england , and i should alter my condition before i died , and then his trust and trouble should cease together , which , however , i had no prospect of yet ; but i told him if i died as i was , it should be all his own , and he would deserve it by being so faithful to me as i was satisfied he would be .
he changed his countenance at this discourse , and asked me how i came to have so much good-will for him ; and , looking very much pleased , said he might very lawfully wish he was a single man for my sake .
i smiled , and told him as he was not , my offer could have no design upon him in it , and to wish , as he did , was not to be allowed , ' twas criminal to his wife . he told me i was wrong .
'for , ' says he , ' madam , as i said before , i have a wife and no wife , and ' twould be no sin to me to wish her hanged , if that were all . '
'i know nothing of your circumstances that way , sir , ' said i ; ' but it cannot be innocent to wish your wife dead . '
'i tell you , ' says he again , ' she is a wife and no wife ; you don 't know what i am , or what she is . '
'that 's true , ' said i ; ' sir , i do not know what you are , but i believe you to be an honest man , and that 's the cause of all my confidence in you . '
'well , well , ' says he , ' and so i am , i hope , too . but i am something else too , madam ; for , ' says he , ' to be plain with you , i am a cuckold , and she is a whore . '
he spoke it in a kind of jest , but it was with such an awkward smile , that i perceived it was what struck very close to him , and he looked dismally when he said it .
'that alters the case indeed , sir , ' said i , ' as to that part you were speaking of ; but a cuckold , you know , may be an honest man ; it does not alter that case at all . besides , i think , ' said i , ' since your wife is so dishonest to you , you are too honest to her to own her for your wife ; but that , ' said i , ' is what i have nothing to do with . '
'nay , ' says he , ' i do not think to clear my hands of her ; for , to be plain with you , madam , ' added he , ' i am no contended cuckold neither : on the other hand , i assure you it provokes me the highest degree , but i can 't help myself ; she that will be a whore , will be a whore . '
i waived the discourse and began to talk of my business ; but i found he could not have done with it , so i let him alone , and he went on to tell me all the circumstances of his case , too long to relate here ; particularly , that having been out of england some time before he came to the post he was in , she had had two children in the meantime by an officer of the army ; and that when he came to england and , upon her submission , took her again , and maintained her very well , yet she ran away from him with a linen-draper 's apprentice , robbed him of what she could come at , and continued to live from him still . ' so that , madam , ' says he , ' she is a whore not by necessity , which is the common bait of your sex , but by inclination , and for the sake of the vice . '
well , i pitied him , and wished him well rid of her , and still would have talked of my business , but it would not do . at last he looks steadily at me .
'look you , madam , ' says he , ' you came to ask advice of me , and i will serve you as faithfully as if you were my own sister ; but i must turn the tables , since you oblige me to do it , and are so friendly to me , and i think i must ask advice of you . tell me , what must a poor abused fellow do with a whore ?
what can i do to do myself justice upon her ? '
'alas ! sir , ' says i , " tis a case too nice for me to advise in , but it seems she has run away from you , so you are rid of her fairly ; what can you desire more ? '
'ay , she is gone indeed , ' said he , ' but i am not clear of her for all that . '
'that 's true , ' says i ; ' she may indeed run you into debt , but the law has furnished you with methods to prevent that also ; you may cry her down , as they call it . '
'no , no , ' says he , ' that is not the case neither ; i have taken care of all that ; ' tis not that part that i speak of , but i would be rid of her so that i might marry again . '
'well , sir , ' says i , ' then you must divorce her . if you can prove what you say , you may certainly get that done , and then , i suppose , you are free . '
'that 's very tedious and expensive , ' says he .
'why , ' says i , ' if you can get any woman you like to take your word , i suppose your wife would not dispute the liberty with you that she takes herself . '
'ay , ' says he , ' but ' twould be hard to bring an honest woman to do that ; and for the other sort , ' says he , ' i have had enough of her to meddle with any more whores . '
it occurred to me presently , ' i would have taken your word with all my heart , if you had but asked me the question ' ; but that was to myself .
to him i replied , ' why , you shut the door against any honest woman accepting you , for you condemn all that should venture upon you at once , and conclude , that really a woman that takes you now can 't be honest . '
'why , ' says he , ' i wish you would satisfy me that an honest woman would take me ; i 'd venture it ' ; and then turns short upon me , ' will you take me , madam ? '
'that 's not a fair question , ' says i , ' after what you have said ; however , lest you should think i wait only for a recantation of it , i shall answer you plainly , no , not i ; my business is of another kind with you , and i did not expect you would have turned my serious application to you , in my own distracted case , into a comedy . '
'why , madam , ' says he , ' my case is as distracted as yours can be , and i stand in as much need of advice as you do , for i think if i have not relief somewhere , i shall be made myself , and i know not what course to take , i protest to you . '
'why , sir , ' says i , " tis easy to give advice in your case , much easier than it is in mine . '
'speak then , ' says he , ' i beg of you , for now you encourage me . '
'why , ' says i , ' if your case is so plain as you say it is , you may be legally divorced , and then you may find honest women enough to ask the question of fairly ; the sex is not so scarce that you can want a wife . '
'well , then , ' said he , ' i am in earnest ; i 'll take your advice ; but shall i ask you one question seriously beforehand ? '
'any question , ' said i , ' but that you did before . '
'no , that answer will not do , ' said he , ' for , in short , that is the question i shall ask . '
'you may ask what questions you please , but you have my answer to that already , ' said i. ' besides , sir , ' said i , ' can you think so ill of me as that i would give any answer to such a question beforehand ?
can any woman alive believe you in earnest , or think you design anything but to banter her ? '
'well , well , ' says he , ' i do not banter you , i am in earnest ; consider of it . '
'but , sir , ' says i , a little gravely , ' i came to you about my own business ; i beg of you to let me know , what you will advise me to do ? '
'i will be prepared , ' says he , ' against you come again . '
'nay , ' says i , ' you have forbid my coming any more . '
'why so ? ' said he , and looked a little surprised .
'because , ' said i , ' you can 't expect i should visit you on the account you talk of . '
'well , ' says he , ' you shall promise me to come again , however , and i will not say any more of it till i have gotten the divorce , but i desire you will prepare to be better conditioned when that 's done , for you shall be the woman , or i will not be divorced at all ; why , i owe it to your unlooked-for kindness , if it were to nothing else , but i have other reasons too . '
he could not have said anything in the world that pleased me better ; however , i knew that the way to secure him was to stand off while the thing was so remote , as it appeared to be , and that it was time enough to accept of it when he was able to perform it ; so i said very respectfully to him , it was time enough to consider of these things when he was in a condition to talk of them ; in the meantime , i told him , i was going a great way from him , and he would find objects enough to please him better .
we broke off here for the present , and he made me promise him to come again the next day , for his resolutions upon my own business , which after some pressing i did ; though had he seen farther into me , i wanted no pressing on that account . i came the next evening , accordingly , and brought my maid with me , to let him see that i kept a maid , but i sent her away as soon as i was gone in .
he would have had me let the maid have stayed , but i would not , but ordered her aloud to come for me again about nine o 'clock . but he forbade that , and told me he would see me safe home , which , by the way , i was not very well please with , supposing he might do that to know where i lived and inquire into my character and circumstances . however , i ventured that , for all that the people there or thereabout knew of me , was to my advantage ; and all the character he had of me , after he had inquired , was that i was a woman of fortune , and that i was a very modest , sober body ; which , whether true or not in the main , yet you may see how necessary it is for all women who expect anything in the world , to preserve the character of their virtue , even when perhaps they may have sacrificed the thing itself .
i found , and was not a little please with it , that he had provided a supper for me . i found also he lived very handsomely , and had a house very handsomely furnished ; all of which i was rejoiced at indeed , for i looked upon it as all my own .
we had now a second conference upon the subject-matter of the last conference . he laid his business very home indeed ; he protested his affection to me , and indeed i had no room to doubt it ; he declared that it began from the first moment i talked with him , and long before i had mentioned leaving my effects with him .
" tis no matter when it began , ' thought i ; ' if it will but hold , ' twill be well enough . '
he then told me how much the offer i had made of trusting him with my effects , and leaving them to him , had engaged him .
'so i intended it should , ' thought i , ' but then i thought you had been a single man too . '
after we had supped , i observed he pressed me very hard to drink two or three glasses of wine , which , however , i declined , but drank one glass or two . he then told me he had a proposal to make to me , which i should promise him i would not take ill if i should not grant it . i told him i hoped he would make no dishonourable proposal to me , especially in his own house , and that if it was such , i desired he would not propose it , that i might not be obliged to offer any resentment to him that did not become the respect i professed for him , and the trust i had placed in him in coming to his house ; and begged of him he would give me leave to go away , and accordingly began to put on my gloves and prepare to be gone , though at the same time i no more intended it than he intended to let me .
well , he importuned me not to talk of going ; he assured me he had no dishonourable thing in his thoughts about me , and was very far from offering anything to me that was dishonourable , and if i thought so , he would choose to say no more of it .
that part i did not relish at all . i told him i was ready to hear anything that he had to say , depending that he would say nothing unworthy of himself , or unfit for me to hear .
upon this , he told me his proposal was this : that i would marry him , though he had not yet obtained the divorce from the whore his wife ; and to satisfy me that he meant honourably , he would promise not to desire me to live with him , or go to bed with him till the divorce was obtained .
my heart said yes to this offer at first word , but it was necessary to play the hypocrite a little more with him ; so i seemed to decline the motion with some warmth , and besides a little condemning the thing as unfair , told him that such a proposal could be of no signification , but to entangle us both in great difficulties ; for if he should not at last obtain the divorce , yet we could not dissolve the marriage , neither could we proceed in it ; so that if he was disappointed in the divorce , i left him to consider what a condition we should both be in .
in short , i carried on the argument against this so far , that i convinced him it was not a proposal that had any sense in it .
well , then he went from it to another , and that was , that i would sign and seal a contract with him , conditioning to marry him as soon as the divorce was obtained , and to be void if he could not obtain it .
i told him such a thing was more rational than the other ; but as this was the first time that ever i could imagine him weak enough to be in earnest in this affair , i did not use to say yes at first asking ; i would consider of it . i played with this lover as an angler does with a trout .
i found i had him fast on the hook , so i jested with his new proposal , and put him off . i told him he knew little of me , and bade him inquire about me ; i let him also go home with me to my lodging , though i would not ask him to go in , for i told him it was not decent .
in short , i ventured to avoid signing a contract of marriage , and the reason why i did it was because the lady that had invited me so earnestly to go with her into lancashire insisted so positively upon it , and promised me such great fortunes , and such fine things there , that i was tempted to go and try . ' perhaps , ' said i , ' i may mend myself very much ' ; and then i made no scruple in my thoughts of quitting my honest citizen , whom i was not so much in love with as not to leave him for a richer .
in a word , i avoided a contract ; but told him i would go into the north , that he should know where to write to me by the consequence of the business i had entrusted with him ; that i would give him a sufficient pledge of my respect for him , for i would leave almost all i had in the world in his hands ; and i would thus far give him my word , that as soon as he had sued out a divorce from his first wife , he would send me an account of it , i would come up to london , and that then we would talk seriously of the matter .
it was a base design i went with , that i must confess , though i was invited thither with a design much worse than mine was , as the sequel will discover . well , i went with my friend , as i called her , into lancashire .
all the way we went she caressed me with the utmost appearance of a sincere , undissembled affection ; treated me , except my coach-hire , all the way ; and her brother brought a gentleman 's coach to warrington to receive us , and we were carried from thence to liverpool with as much ceremony as i could desire .
we were also entertained at a merchant 's house in liverpool three or four days very handsomely ; i forbear to tell his name , because of what followed . then she told me she would carry me to an uncle 's house of hers , where we should be nobly entertained . she did so ; her uncle , as she called him , sent a coach and four horses for us , and we were carried near forty miles i know not whither .
we came , however , to a gentleman 's seat , where was a numerous family , a large park , extraordinary company indeed , and where she was called cousin . i told her if she had resolved to bring me into such company as this , she should have let me have prepared myself , and have furnished myself with better clothes . the ladies took notice of that , and told me very genteelly they did not value people in their country so much by their clothes as they did in london ; that their cousin had fully informed them of my quality , and that i did not want clothes to set me off ; in short , they entertained me , not like what i was , but like what they thought i had been , namely , a widow lady of a great fortune .
the first discovery i made here was , that the family were all roman catholics , and the cousin too , whom i called my friend ; however , i must say that nobody in the world could behave better to me , and i had all the civility shown me that i could have had if i had been of their opinion .
the truth is , i had not so much principle of any kind as to be nice in point of religion , and i presently learned to speak favourably of the romish church ; particularly , i told them i saw little but the prejudice of education in all the difference that were among christians about religion , and if it had so happened that my father had been a roman catholic , i doubted not but i should have been as well pleased with their religion as my own .
this obliged them in the highest degree , and as i was besieged day and night with good company and pleasant discourse , so i had two or three old ladies that lay at me upon the subject of religion too .
i was so complaisant , that though i would not completely engage , yet i made no scruple to be present at their mass , and to conform to all their gestures as they showed me the pattern , but i would not come too cheap ; so that i only in the main encouraged them to expect that i would turn roman catholic , if i was instructed in the catholic doctrine as they called it , and so the matter rested .
i stayed here about six weeks ; and then my conductor led me back to a country village , about six miles from liverpool , where her brother ( as she called him ) came to visit me in his own chariot , and in a very good figure , with two footmen in a good livery ; and the next thing was to make love to me .
as it had happened to me , one would think i could not have been cheated , and indeed i thought so myself , having a safe card at home , which i resolved not to quit unless i could mend myself very much .
however , in all appearance this brother was a match worth my listening to , and the least his estate was valued at was # 1000 a year , but the sister said it was worth # 1500 a year , and lay most of it in ireland .
i that was a great fortune , and passed for such , was above being asked how much my estate was ; and my false friend taking it upon a foolish hearsay , had raised it from # 500 to # 5000 , and by the time she came into the country she called it # 15,000 .
the irishman , for such i understood him to be , was stark mad at this bait ; in short , he courted me , made me presents , and ran in debt like a madman for the expenses of his equipage and of his courtship . he had , to give him his due , the appearance of an extraordinary fine gentleman ; he was tall , well-shaped , and had an extraordinary address ; talked as naturally of his park and his stables , of his horses , his gamekeepers , his woods , his tenants , and his servants , as if we had been in the mansion-house , and i had seen them all about me .
he never so much as asked me about my fortune or estate , but assured me that when we came to dublin he would jointure me in # 600 a year good land ; and that we could enter into a deed of settlement or contract here for the performance of it . this was such language indeed as i had not been used to , and i was here beaten out of all my measures ; i had a she-devil in my bosom , every hour telling me how great her brother lived .
one time she would come for my orders , how i would have my coaches painted , and how lined ; and another time what clothes my page should wear ; in short , my eyes were dazzled . i had now lost my power of saying no , and , to cut the story short , i consented to be married ; but to be the more private , we were carried farther into the country , and married by a romish clergyman , who i was assured would marry us as effectually as a church of england parson .
i cannot say but i had some reflections in this affair upon the dishonourable forsaking my faithful citizen , who loved me sincerely , and who was endeavouring to quit himself of a scandalous whore by whom he had been indeed barbarously used , and promised himself infinite happiness in his new choice ; which choice was now giving up herself to another in a manner almost as scandalous as hers could be .
but the glittering shoe of a great estate , and of fine things , which the deceived creature that was now my deceiver represented every hour to my imagination , hurried me away , and gave me no time to think of london , or of anything there , much less of the obligation i had to a person of infinitely more real merit than what was now before me .
but the thing was done ; i was now in the arms of my new spouse , who appeared still the same as before ; great even to magnificence , and nothing less than # 1000 a year could support the ordinary equipage he appeared in .
after we had been married about a month , he began to talk of my going to west chester in order to embark for ireland .
however , he did not hurry me , for we stayed near three weeks longer , and then he sent to chester for a coach to meet us at the black rock , as they call it , over against liverpool .
thither we went in a fine boat they call a pinnace , with six oars ; his servants , and horses , and baggage going in the ferry-boat .
he made his excuse to me that he had no acquaintance in chester , but he would go before and get some handsome apartment for me at a private house . i asked him how long we should stay at chester .
he said , not at all , any longer than one night or two , but he would immediately hire a coach to go to holyhead . then i told him he should by no means give himself the trouble to get private lodgings for one night or two , for that chester being a great place , i made no doubt but there would be very good inns and accommodation enough ; so we lodged at an inn in the west street , not far from the cathedral ; i forget what sign it was at .
here my spouse , talking of my going to ireland , asked me if i had no affairs to settle at london before we went off . i told him no , not of any great consequence , but what might be done as well by letter from dublin .
'madam , ' says he , very respectfully , ' i suppose the greatest part of your estate , which my sister tells me is most of it in money in the bank of england , lies secure enough , but in case it required transferring , or any way altering its property , it might be necessary to go up to london and settle those things before we went over . '
i seemed to look strange at it , and told him i knew not what he meant ; that i had no effects in the bank of england that i knew of ; and i hoped he could not say that i had ever told him i had .
no , he said , i had not told him so , but his sister had said the greatest part of my estate lay there .
'and i only mentioned it , me dear , ' said he , ' that if there was any occasion to settle it , or order anything about it , we might not be obliged to the hazard and trouble of another voyage back again ' ; for he added , that he did not care to venture me too much upon the sea .
i was surprised at this talk , and began to consider very seriously what the meaning of it must be ; and it presently occurred to me that my friend , who called him brother , had represented me in colours which were not my due ; and i thought , since it was come to that pitch , that i would know the bottom of it before i went out of england , and before i should put myself into i knew not whose hands in a strange country .
upon this i called his sister into my chamber the next morning , and letting her know the discourse her brother and i had been upon the evening before , i conjured her to tell me what she had said to him , and upon what foot it was that she had made this marriage .
she owned that she had told him that i was a great fortune , and said that she was told so at london .
'told so ! ' says i warmly ; ' did i ever tell you so ? '
no , she said , it was true i did not tell her so , but i had said several times that what i had was in my own disposal .
'i did so , ' returned i very quickly and hastily , ' but i never told you i had anything called a fortune ; no , not that i had # 100 , or the value of # 100 , in the world .
any how did it consist with my being a fortune , ' said i , ' that i should come here into the north of england with you , only upon the account of living cheap ? '
at these words , which i spoke warm and high , my husband , her brother ( as she called him ) , came into the room , and i desired him to come and sit down , for i had something of moment to say before them both , which it was absolutely necessary he should hear .
he looked a little disturbed at the assurance with which i seemed to speak it , and came and sat down by me , having first shut the door ; upon which i began , for i was very much provoked , and turning myself to him , ' i am afraid , ' says i , ' my dear ' ( for i spoke with kindness on his side ) , ' that you have a very great abuse put upon you , and an injury done you never to be repaired in your marrying me , which , however , as i have had no hand in it , i desire i may be fairly acquitted of it , and that the blame may lie where it ought to lie , and nowhere else , for i wash my hands of every part of it . '
'what injury can be done me , my dear , ' says he , ' in marrying you .
i hope it is to my honour and advantage every way . '
'i will soon explain it to you , ' says i , ' and i fear you will have no reason to think yourself well used ; but i will convince you , my dear , ' says i again , ' that i have had no hand in it ' ; and there i stopped a while .
he looked now scared and wild , and began , i believe , to suspect what followed ; however , looking towards me , and saying only , ' go on , ' he sat silent , as if to hear what i had more to say ; so i went on .
'i asked you last night , ' said i , speaking to him , ' if ever i made any boast to you of my estate , or ever told you i had any estate in the bank of england or anywhere else , and you owned i had not , as is most true ; and i desire you will tell me here , before your sister , if ever i gave you any reason from me to think so , or that ever we had any discourse about it ' ; and he owned again i had not , but said i had appeared always as a woman of fortune , and he depended on it that i was so , and hoped he was not deceived .
'i am not inquiring yet whether you have been deceived or not , ' said i ; ' i fear you have , and i too ; but i am clearing myself from the unjust charge of being concerned in deceiving you .
'i have been now asking your sister if ever i told her of any fortune or estate i had , or gave her any particulars of it ; and she owns i never did .
any pray , madam , ' said i , turning myself to her , ' be so just to me , before your brother , to charge me , if you can , if ever i pretended to you that i had an estate ; and why , if i had , should i come down into this country with you on purpose to spare that little i had , and live cheap ? '
she could not deny one word , but said she had been told in london that i had a very great fortune , and that it lay in the bank of england .
'and now , dear sir , ' said i , turning myself to my new spouse again , ' be so just to me as to tell me who has abused both you and me so much as to make you believe i was a fortune , and prompt you to court me to this marriage ? '
he could not speak a word , but pointed to her ; and , after some more pause , flew out in the most furious passion that ever i saw a man in my life , cursing her , and calling her all the whores and hard names he could think of ; and that she had ruined him , declaring that she had told him i had # 15,000 , and that she was to have # 500 of him for procuring this match for him . he then added , directing his speech to me , that she was none of his sister , but had been his whore for two years before , that she had had # 100 of him in part of this bargain , and that he was utterly undone if things were as i said ; and in his raving he swore he would let her heart 's blood out immediately , which frightened her and me too .
she cried , said she had been told so in the house where i lodged . but this aggravated him more than before , that she should put so far upon him , and run things such a length upon no other authority than a hearsay ; and then , turning to me again , said very honestly , he was afraid we were both undone .
'for , to be plain , my dear , i have no estate , ' says he ; ' what little i had , this devil has made me run out in waiting on you and putting me into this equipage . '
she took the opportunity of his being earnest in talking with me , and got out of the room , and i never saw her more .
i was confounded now as much as he , and knew not what to say .
i thought many ways that i had the worst of it , but his saying he was undone , and that he had no estate neither , put me into a mere distraction .
'why , ' says i to him , ' this has been a hellish juggle , for we are married here upon the foot of a double fraud ; you are undone by the disappointment , it seems ; and if i had had a fortune i had been cheated too , for you say you have nothing . '
'you would indeed have been cheated , my dear , ' says he , ' but you would not have been undone , for # 15,000 would have maintained us both very handsomely in this country ; and i assure you , ' added he , ' i had resolved to have dedicated every groat of it to you ; i would not have wronged you of a shilling , and the rest i would have made up in my affection to you , and tenderness of you , as long as i lived . '
this was very honest indeed , and i really believe he spoke as he intended , and that he was a man that was as well qualified to make me happy , as to his temper and behaviour , as any man ever was ; but his having no estate , and being run into debt on this ridiculous account in the country , made all the prospect dismal and dreadful , and i knew not what to say , or what to think of myself .
i told him it was very unhappy that so much love , and so much good nature as i discovered in him , should be thus precipitated into misery ; that i saw nothing before us but ruin ; for as to me , it was my unhappiness that what little i had was not able to relieve us week , and with that i pulled out a bank bill of # 20 and eleven guineas , which i told him i had saved out of my little income , and that by the account that creature had given me of the way of living in that country , i expected it would maintain me three or four years ; that if it was taken from me , i was left destitute , and he knew what the condition of a woman among strangers must be , if she had no money in her pocket ; however , i told him , if he would take it , there it was .
he told me with a great concern , and i thought i saw tears stand in his eyes , that he would not touch it ; that he abhorred the thoughts of stripping me and make me miserable ; that , on the contrary , he had fifty guineas left , which was all he had in the world , and he pulled it out and threw it down on the table , bidding me take it , though he were to starve for want of it .
i returned , with the same concern for him , that i could not bear to hear him talk so ; that , on the contrary , if he could propose any probable method of living , i would do anything that became me on my part , and that i would live as close and as narrow as he could desire .
he begged of me to talk no more at that rate , for it would make him distracted ; he said he was bred a gentleman , though he was reduced to a low fortune , and that there was but one way left which he could think of , and that would not do , unless i could answer him one question , which , however , he said he would not press me to . i told him i would answer it honestly ; whether it would be to his satisfaction or not , that i could not tell .
'why , then , my dear , tell me plainly , ' says he , ' will the little you have keep us together in any figure , or in any station or place , or will it not ? '
it was my happiness hitherto that i had not discovered myself or my circumstances at all--no , not so much as my name ; and seeing these was nothing to be expected from him , however good-humoured and however honest he seemed to be , but to live on what i knew would soon be wasted , i resolved to conceal everything but the bank bill and the eleven guineas which i had owned ; and i would have been very glad to have lost that and have been set down where he took me up .
i had indeed another bank bill about me of # 30 , which was the whole of what i brought with me , as well to subsist on in the country , as not knowing what might offer ; because this creature , the go-between that had thus betrayed us both , had made me believe strange things of my marrying to my advantage in the country , and i was not willing to be without money , whatever might happen .
this bill i concealed , and that made me the freer of the rest , in consideration of his circumstances , for i really pitied him heartily .
but to return to his question , i told him i never willingly deceived him , and i never would .
i was very sorry to tell him that the little i had would not subsist us ; that it was not sufficient to subsist me alone in the south country , and that this was the reason that made me put myself into the hands of that woman who called him brother , she having assured me that i might board very handsomely at a town called manchester , where i had not yet been , for about # 6 a year ; and my whole income not being about # 15 a year , i thought i might live easy upon it , and wait for better things .
he shook his head and remained silent , and a very melancholy evening we had ; however , we supped together , and lay together that night , and when we had almost supped he looked a little better and more cheerful , and called for a bottle of wine .
'come , my dear , ' says he , ' though the case is bad , it is to no purpose to be dejected .
come , be as easy as you can ; i will endeavour to find out some way or other to live ; if you can but subsist yourself , that is better than nothing . i must try the world again ; a man ought to think like a man ; to be discouraged is to yield to the misfortune . '
with this he filled a glass and drank to me , holding my hand and pressing it hard in his hand all the while the wine went down , and protesting afterwards his main concern was for me .
it was really a true , gallant spirit he was of , and it was the more grievous to me .
'tis something of relief even to be undone by a man of honour , rather than by a scoundrel ; but here the greatest disappointment was on his side , for he had really spent a great deal of money , deluded by this madam the procuress ; and it was very remarkable on what poor terms he proceeded . first the baseness of the creature herself is to be observed , who , for the getting # 100 herself , could be content to let him spend three or four more , though perhaps it was all he had in the world , and more than all ; when she had not the least ground , more than a little tea-table chat , to say that i had any estate , or was a fortune , or the like .
it is true the design of deluding a woman of fortune , if i had been so , was base enough ; the putting the face of great things upon poor circumstances was a fraud , and bad enough ; but the case a little differed too , and that in his favour , for he was not a rake that made a trade to delude women , and , as some have done , get six or seven fortunes after one another , and then rifle and run away from them ; but he was really a gentleman , unfortunate and low , but had lived well ; and though , if i had had a fortune , i should have been enraged at the slut for betraying me , yet really for the man , a fortune would not have been ill bestowed on him , for he was a lovely person indeed , of generous principles , good sense , and of abundance of good-humour .
we had a great deal of close conversation that night , for we neither of us slept much ; he was as penitent for having put all those cheats upon me as if it had been felony , and that he was going to execution ; he offered me again every shilling of the money he had about him , and said he would go into the army and seek the world for more .
i asked him why he would be so unkind to carry me into ireland , when i might suppose he could not have subsisted me there .
he took me in his arms .
'my dear , ' said he , ' depend upon it , i never designed to go to ireland at all , much less to have carried you thither , but came hither to be out of the observation of the people , who had heard what i pretended to , and withal , that nobody might ask me for money before i was furnished to supply them . '
'but where , then , ' said i , ' were we to have gone next ? '
'why , my dear , ' said he , ' i 'll confess the whole scheme to you as i had laid it ; i purposed here to ask you something about your estate , as you see i did , and when you , as i expected you would , had entered into some account with me of the particulars , i would have made an excuse to you to have put off our voyage to ireland for some time , and to have gone first towards london .
'then , my dear , ' said he , ' i resolved to have confessed all the circumstances of my own affairs to you , and let you know i had indeed made use of these artifices to obtain your consent to marry me , but had now nothing to do but ask to your pardon , and to tell you how abundantly , as i have said above , i would endeavour to make you forget what was past , by the felicity of the days to come . '
'truly , ' said i to him , ' i find you would soon have conquered me ; and it is my affliction now , that i am not in a condition to let you see how easily i should have been reconciled to you , and have passed by all the tricks you had put upon me , in recompense of so much good-humour . but , my dear , ' said i , ' what can we do now ?
we are both undone , and what better are we for our being reconciled together , seeing we have nothing to live on ? '
we proposed a great many things , but nothing could offer where there was nothing to begin with .
he begged me at last to talk no more of it , for , he said , i would break his heart ; so we talked of other things a little , till at last he took a husband 's leave of me , and so we went to sleep .
he rose before me in the morning ; and indeed , having lain awake almost all night , i was very sleepy , and lay till near eleven o 'clock .
in this time he took his horses and three servants , and all his linen and baggage , and away he went , leaving a short but moving letter for me on the table , as follows : --
'my dear--i am a dog ; i have abused you ; but i have been drawn into do it by a base creature , contrary to my principle and the general practice of my life .
forgive me , my dear !
i ask your pardon with the greatest sincerity ; i am the most miserable of men , in having deluded you .
i have been so happy to possess you , and now am so wretched as to be forced to fly from you .
forgive me , my dear ; once more i say , forgive me !
i am not able to see you ruined by me , and myself unable to support you .
our marriage is nothing ; i shall never be able to see you again ; i here discharge you from it ; if you can marry to your advantage , do not decline it on my account ; i here swear to you on my faith , and on the word of a man of honour , i will never disturb your repose if i should know of it , which , however , is not likely . on the other hand , if you should not marry , and if good fortune should befall me , it shall be all yours , wherever you are .
'i have put some of the stock of money i have left into your pocket ; take places for yourself and your maid in the stage-coach , and go for london ; i hope it will bear your charges thither , without breaking into your own .
again i sincerely ask your pardon , and will do so as often as i shall ever think of you .
adieu , my dear , for ever ! --i am , your most affectionately , j.e . '
nothing that ever befell me in my life sank so deep into my heart as this farewell .
i reproached him a thousand times in my thoughts for leaving me , for i would have gone with him through the world , if i had begged my bread .
i felt in my pocket , and there found ten guineas , his gold watch , and two little rings , one a small diamond ring worth only about # 6 , and the other a plain gold ring .
i sat me down and looked upon these things two hours together , and scarce spoke a word , till my maid interrupted me by telling me my dinner was ready . i ate but little , and after dinner i fell into a vehement fit of crying , every now and then calling him by his name , which was james .
'o jemmy ! ' said i , ' come back , come back . i 'll give you all i have ; i 'll beg , i 'll starve with you . '
and thus i ran raving about the room several times , and then sat down between whiles , and then walking about again , called upon him to come back , and then cried again ; and thus i passed the afternoon , till about seven o 'clock , when it was near dusk , in the evening , being august , when , to my unspeakable surprise , he comes back into the inn , but without a servant , and comes directly up into my chamber .
i was in the greatest confusion imaginable , and so was he too . i could not imagine what should be the occasion of it , and began to be at odds with myself whether to be glad or sorry ; but my affection biassed all the rest , and it was impossible to conceal my joy , which was too great for smiles , for it burst out into tears .
he was no sooner entered the room but he ran to me and took me in his arms , holding me fast , and almost stopping my breath with his kisses , but spoke not a word .
at length i began .
'my dear , ' said i , ' how could you go away from me ? ' to which he gave no answer , for it was impossible for him to speak .
when our ecstasies were a little over , he told me he was gone about fifteen miles , but it was not in his power to go any farther without coming back to see me again , and to take his leave of me once more .
i told him how i had passed my time , and how loud i had called him to come back again .
he told me he heard me very plain upon delamere forest , at a place about twelve miles off .
i smiled .
'nay , ' says he , ' do not think i am in jest , for if ever i heard your voice in my life , i heard you call me aloud , and sometimes i thought i saw you running after me . '
'why , ' said i , ' what did i say ? ' --for i had not named the words to him .
'you called aloud , ' says he , ' and said , o jemmy ! o jemmy ! come back , come back . '
i laughed at him .
'my dear , ' says he , ' do not laugh , for , depend upon it , i heard your voice as plain as you hear mine now ; if you please , i 'll go before a magistrate and make oath of it . '
i then began to be amazed and surprised , and indeed frightened , and told him what i had really done , and how i had called after him , as above .
when we had amused ourselves a while about this , i said to him : ' well , you shall go away from me no more ; i 'll go all over the world with you rather . '
he told me it would be a very difficult thing for him to leave me , but since it must be , he hoped i would make it as easy to me as i could ; but as for him , it would be his destruction that he foresaw .
however , he told me that he considered he had left me to travel to london alone , which was too long a journey ; and that as he might as well go that way as any way else , he was resolved to see me safe thither , or near it ; and if he did go away then without taking his leave , i should not take it ill of him ; and this he made me promise .
he told me how he had dismissed his three servants , sold their horses , and sent the fellows away to seek their fortunes , and all in a little time , at a town on the road , i know not where . ' and , ' says he , ' it cost me some tears all alone by myself , to think how much happier they were than their master , for they could go to the next gentleman 's house to see for a service , whereas , ' said he , ' i knew not wither to go , or what to do with myself . '
i told him i was so completely miserable in parting with him , that i could not be worse ; and that now he was come again , i would not go from him , if he would take me with him , let him go whither he would , or do what he would .
and in the meantime i agreed that we would go together to london ; but i could not be brought to consent he should go away at last and not take his leave of me , as he proposed to do ; but told him , jesting , that if he did , i would call him back again as loud as i did before .
then i pulled out his watch and gave it him back , and his two rings , and his ten guineas ; but he would not take them , which made me very much suspect that he resolved to go off upon the road and leave me .
the truth is , the circumstances he was in , the passionate expressions of his letter , the kind , gentlemanly treatment i had from him in all the affair , with the concern he showed for me in it , his manner of parting with that large share which he gave me of his little stock left--all these had joined to make such impressions on me , that i really loved him most tenderly , and could not bear the thoughts of parting with him .
two days after this we quitted chester , i in the stage-coach , and he on horseback . i dismissed my maid at chester . he was very much against my being without a maid , but she being a servant hired in the country , and i resolving to keep no servant at london , i told him it would have been barbarous to have taken the poor wench and have turned her away as soon as i came to town ; and it would also have been a needless charge on the road , so i satisfied him , and he was easy enough on the score .
he came with me as far as dunstable , within thirty miles of london , and then he told me fate and his own misfortunes obliged him to leave me , and that it was not convenient for him to go to london , for reasons which it was of no value to me to know , and i saw him preparing to go .
the stage-coach we were in did not usually stop at dunstable , but i desiring it but for a quart of an hour , they were content to stand at an inndoor a while , and we went into the house .
being in the inn , i told him i had but one favour more to ask of him , and that was , that since he could not go any farther , he would give me leave to stay a week or two in the town with him , that we might in that time think of something to prevent such a ruinous thing to us both , as a final separation would be ; and that i had something of moment to offer him , that i had never said yet , and which perhaps he might find practicable to our mutual advantage .
this was too reasonable a proposal to be denied , so he called the landlady of the house , and told her his wife was taken ill , and so ill that she could not think of going any farther in the stage-coach , which had tired her almost to death , and asked if she could not get us a lodging for two or three days in a private house , where i might rest me a little , for the journey had been too much for me .
the landlady , a good sort of woman , well-bred and very obliging , came immediately to see me ; told me she had two or three very good rooms in a part of the house quite out of the noise , and if i saw them , she did not doubt but i would like them , and i should have one of her maids , that should do nothing else but be appointed to wait on me .
this was so very kind , that i could not but accept of it , and thank her ; so i went to look on the rooms and liked them very well , and indeed they were extraordinarily furnished , and very pleasant lodgings ; so we paid the stage-coach , took out our baggage , and resolved to stay here a while .
here i told him i would live with him now till all my money was spent , but would not let him spend a shilling of his own . we had some kind squabble about that , but i told him it was the last time i was like to enjoy his company , and i desired he would let me be master in that thing only , and he should govern in everything else ; so he acquiesced .
here one evening , taking a walk into the fields , i told him i would now make the proposal to him i had told him of ; accordingly i related to him how i had lived in virginia , that i had a mother i believed was alive there still , though my husband was dead some years . i told him that had not my effects miscarried , which , by the way , i magnified pretty much , i might have been fortune good enough to him to have kept us from being parted in this manner .
then i entered into the manner of peoples going over to those countries to settle , how they had a quantity of land given them by the constitution of the place ; and if not , that it might be purchased at so easy a rate this it was not worth naming .
i then gave him a full and distinct account of the nature of planting ; how with carrying over but two or three hundred pounds value in english goods , with some servants and tools , a man of application would presently lay a foundation for a family , and in a very few years be certain to raise an estate .
then i told him what measures i would take to raise such a sum of # 300 or thereabouts ; and i argued with him how good a method it would be to put an end to our misfortunes and restore our circumstances in the world , to what we had both expected ; and i added , that after seven years , if we lived , we might be in a posture to leave our plantations in good hands , and come over again and receive the income of it , and live here and enjoy it ; and i gave him examples of some that had done so , and lived now in very good circumstances in london .
in short , i pressed him so to it , that he almost agreed to it , but still something or other broke it off again ; till at last he turned the tables , and he began to talk almost to the same purpose of ireland .
he told me that a man that could confine himself to country life , and that could find but stock to enter upon any land , should have farms there for # 50 a year , as good as were here let for # 200 a year ; that the produce was such , and so rich the land , that if much was not laid up , we were sure to live as handsomely upon it as a gentleman of # 3000 a year could do in england and that he had laid a scheme to leave me in london , and go over and try ; and if he found he could lay a handsome foundation of living suitable to the respect he had for me , as he doubted not he should do , he would come over and fetch me .
i was dreadfully afraid that upon such a proposal he would have taken me at my word , viz. to sell my little income as i called it , and turn it into money , and let him carry it over into ireland and try his experiment with it ; but he was too just to desire it , or to have accepted it if i had offered it ; and he anticipated me in that , for he added , that he would go and try his fortune that way , and if he found he could do anything at it to live , then , by adding mine to it when i went over , we should live like ourselves ; but that he would not hazard a shilling of mine till he had made the experiment with a little , and he assured me that if he found nothing to be done in ireland , he would then come to me and join in my project for virginia .
i could bring him to nothing further than this . however , those consultations entertained us near a month , during which i enjoyed his company , which indeed was the most entertaining that ever i met in my life before .
in this time he let me into the whole story of his own life , which was indeed surprising , and full of an infinite variety sufficient to fill up a much brighter history , for its adventures and incidents , than any i ever say in print ; but i shall have occasion to say more of him hereafter .
we parted at last , though with the utmost reluctance on my side ; and indeed he took his leave very unwillingly too , but necessity obliged him , for his reasons were very good why he would not come to london , as i understood more fully some time afterwards .
i gave him a direction how to write to me , though still i reserved the grand secret , and never broke my resolution , which was not to let him ever know my true name , who i was , or where to be found ; he likewise let me know how to write a letter to him , so that , he said , he would be sure to receive it .
i came to london the next day after we parted , but did not go directly to my old lodgings ; but for another nameless reason took a private lodging in st. john 's street , or , as it is vulgarly called , st. jones 's , near clerkenwell ; and here , being perfectly alone , i had leisure to sit down and reflect seriously upon the last seven months ' ramble i had made , for i had been abroad no less .
the pleasant hours i had with my last husband i looked back on with an infinite deal of pleasure ; but that pleasure was very much lessened when i found some time after that i was really with child .
this was a perplexing thing , because of the difficulty which was before me where i should get leave to lie in ; it being one of the nicest things in the world at that time of day for a woman that was a stranger , and had no friends , to be entertained in that circumstance without security , which , by the way , i had not , neither could i procure any .
i had taken care all this while to preserve a correspondence with my honest friend at the bank , or rather he took care to correspond with me , for he wrote to me once a week ; and though i had not spent my money so fast as to want any from him , yet i often wrote also to let him know i was alive .
i had left directions in lancashire , so that i had these letters , which he sent , conveyed to me ; and during my recess at st. jones 's received a very obliging letter from him , assuring me that his process for a divorce from his wife went on with success , though he met with some difficulties in it that he did not expect .
i was not displeased with the news that his process was more tedious than he expected ; for though i was in no condition to have him yet , not being so foolish to marry him when i knew myself to be with child by another man , as some i know have ventured to do , yet i was not willing to lose him , and , in a word , resolved to have him if he continued in the same mind , as soon as i was up again ; for i saw apparently i should hear no more from my husband ; and as he had all along pressed to marry , and had assured me he would not be at all disgusted at it , or ever offer to claim me again , so i made no scruple to resolve to do it if i could , and if my other friend stood to his bargain ; and i had a great deal of reason to be assured that he would stand to it , by the letters he wrote to me , which were the kindest and most obliging that could be .
i now grew big , and the people where i lodged perceived it , and began to take notice of it to me , and , as far as civility would allow , intimated that i must think of removing .
this put me to extreme perplexity , and i grew very melancholy , for indeed i knew not what course to take . i had money , but no friends , and was like to have a child upon my hands to keep , which was a difficulty i had never had upon me yet , as the particulars of my story hitherto make appear .
in the course of this affair i fell very ill , and my melancholy really increased my distemper ; my illness proved at length to be only an ague , but my apprehensions were really that i should miscarry .
i should not say apprehensions , for indeed i would have been glad to miscarry , but i could never be brought to entertain so much as a thought of endeavouring to miscarry , or of taking any thing to make me miscarry ; i abhorred , i say , so much as the thought of it .
however , speaking of it in the house , the gentlewoman who kept the house proposed to me to send for a midwife .
i scrupled it at first , but after some time consented to it , but told her i had no particular acquaintance with any midwife , and so left it to her .
it seems the mistress of the house was not so great a stranger to such cases as mine was as i thought at first she had been , as will appear presently , and she sent for a midwife of the right sort--that is to say , the right sort for me .
the woman appeared to be an experienced woman in her business , i mean as a midwife ; but she had another calling too , in which she was as expert as most women if not more .
my landlady had told her i was very melancholy , and that she believed that had done me harm ; and once , before me , said to her , ' mrs. b---- ' ( meaning the midwife ) , ' i believe this lady 's trouble is of a kind that is pretty much in your way , and therefore if you can do anything for her , pray do , for she is a very civil gentlewoman ' ; and so she went out of the room .
i really did not understand her , but my mother midnight began very seriously to explain what she mean , as soon as she was gone .
'madam , ' says she , ' you seem not to understand what your landlady means ; and when you do understand it , you need not let her know at all that you do so .
'she means that you are under some circumstances that may render your lying in difficult to you , and that you are not willing to be exposed . i need say no more , but to tell you , that if you think fit to communicate so much of your case to me , if it be so , as is necessary , for i do not desire to pry into those things , i perhaps may be in a position to help you and to make you perfectly easy , and remove all your dull thoughts upon that subject . '
every word this creature said was a cordial to me , and put new life and new spirit into my heart ; my blood began to circulate immediately , and i was quite another body ; i ate my victuals again , and grew better presently after it .
she said a great deal more to the same purpose , and then , having pressed me to be free with her , and promised in the solemnest manner to be secret , she stopped a little , as if waiting to see what impression it made on me , and what i would say .
i was too sensible to the want i was in of such a woman , not to accept her offer ; i told her my case was partly as she guessed , and partly not , for i was really married , and had a husband , though he was in such fine circumstances and so remote at that time , as that he could not appear publicly .
she took me short , and told me that was none of her business ; all the ladies that came under her care were married women to her .
'every woman , ' she says , ' that is with child has a father for it , ' and whether that father was a husband or no husband , was no business of hers ; her business was to assist me in my present circumstances , whether i had a husband or no .
'for , madam , ' says she , ' to have a husband that cannot appear , is to have no husband in the sense of the case ; and , therefore , whether you are a wife or a mistress is all one to me . '
i found presently , that whether i was a whore or a wife , i was to pass for a whore here , so i let that go .
i told her it was true , as she said , but that , however , if i must tell her my case , i must tell it her as it was ; so i related it to her as short as i could , and i concluded it to her thus .
'i trouble you with all this , madam , ' said i , ' not that , as you said before , it is much to the purpose in your affair , but this is to the purpose , namely , that i am not in any pain about being seen , or being public or concealed , for ' tis perfectly indifferent to me ; but my difficulty is , that i have no acquaintance in this part of the nation . '
'i understand you , madam ' says she ; ' you have no security to bring to prevent the parish impertinences usual in such cases , and perhaps , ' says she , ' do not know very well how to dispose of the child when it comes . '
'the last , ' says i , ' is not so much my concern as the first . '
'well , madam , ' answered the midwife , ' dare you put yourself into my hands ?
i live in such a place ; though i do not inquire after you , you may inquire after me . my name is b---- ; i live in such a street ' --naming the street-- ' at the sign of the cradle . my profession is a midwife , and i have many ladies that come to my house to lie in . i have given security to the parish in general terms to secure them from any charge from whatsoever shall come into the world under my roof .
i have but one question to ask in the whole affair , madam , ' says she , ' and if that be answered you shall be entirely easy for all the rest . '
i presently understood what she meant , and told her , ' madam , i believe i understand you .
i thank god , though i want friends in this part of the world , i do not want money , so far as may be necessary , though i do not abound in that neither ' : this i added because i would not make her expect great things .
'well , madam , ' says she , ' that is the thing indeed , without which nothing can be done in these cases ; and yet , ' says she , ' you shall see that i will not impose upon you , or offer anything that is unkind to you , and if you desire it , you shall know everything beforehand , that you may suit yourself to the occasion , and be neither costly or sparing as you see fit . '
i told her she seemed to be so perfectly sensible of my condition , that i had nothing to ask of her but this , that as i had told her that i had money sufficient , but not a great quantity , she would order it so that i might be at as little superfluous charge as possible .
she replied that she would bring in an account of the expenses of it in two or three shapes , and like a bill of fare , i should choose as i pleased ; and i desired her to do so .
the next day she brought it , and the copy of her three bills was a follows : --
1 .
for three months ' lodging in her house , including my diet , at 10s. a week . . . . . . . . . . . 6 # , 0s . , 0d .
2 .
for a nurse for the month , and use of childbed linen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1 # , 10s . , 0d . 3 .
for a minister to christen the child , and to the godfathers and clerk . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 # , 10s . , 0d .
4 .
for a supper at the christening if i had five friends at it . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 # , 0s . , 0d .
for her fees as a midwife , and the taking off the trouble of the parish . . . . . . . . . . . .
3 # , 3s . , 0d . to her maid servant attending . . . . . . . .
0 # , 10s . , 0d . -------------- 13 # , 13s . , 0d . this was the first bill ; the second was the same terms : --
1 .
for three months ' lodging and diet , etc . , at 20s. per week . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 # , 0s . , 0d .
2 .
for a nurse for the month , and the use of linen and lace . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 # , 10s . , 0d .
3 .
for the minister to christen the child , etc . , as above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 # , 0s . , 0d .
4 .
for supper and for sweetmeats . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 # , 3s . , 0d .
for her fees as above . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 # , 5s . , 0d .
for a servant-maid . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 # , 0s . , 0d . -------------- 26 # , 18s . , 0d .
this was the second-rate bill ; the third , she said , was for a degree higher , and when the father or friends appeared : --
1 .
for three months ' lodging and diet , having two rooms and a garret for a servant . . . . . . 30 # , 0s . , 0d . ,
2 .
for a nurse for the month , and the finest suit of childbed linen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 # , 4s . , 0d .
3 .
for the minister to christen the child , etc . 2 # , 10s . , 0d .
4 .
for a supper , the gentlemen to send in the wine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 # , 0s . , 0d .
for my fees , etc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 # , 10s . , 0d .
the maid , besides their own maid , only . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 # , 10s . , 0d . -------------- 53 # , 14s . , 0d .
i looked upon all three bills , and smiled , and told her i did not see but that she was very reasonable in her demands , all things considered , and for that i did not doubt but her accommodations were good .
she told me i should be judge of that when i saw them . i told her i was sorry to tell her that i feared i must be her lowest-rated customer .
'and perhaps , madam , ' said i , ' you will make me the less welcome upon that account . '
'no , not at all , ' said she ; ' for where i have one of the third sort i have two of the second , and four to one of the first , and i get as much by them in proportion as by any ; but if you doubt my care of you , i will allow any friend you have to overlook and see if you are well waited on or no . '
then she explained the particulars of her bill .
'in the first place , madam , ' said she , ' i would have you observe that here is three months ' keeping ; you are but ten shillings a week ; i undertake to say you will not complain of my table . i suppose , ' says she , ' you do not live cheaper where you are now ? '
'no , indeed , ' said i , ' not so cheap , for i give six shillings per week for my chamber , and find my own diet as well as i can , which costs me a great deal more . '
'then , madam , ' says she , ' if the child should not live , or should be dead-born , as you know sometimes happens , then there is the minister 's article saved ; and if you have no friends to come to you , you may save the expense of a supper ; so that take those articles out , madam , ' says she , ' your lying in will not cost you above # 5 , 3s. in all more than your ordinary charge of living . '
this was the most reasonable thing that i ever heard of ; so i smiled , and told her i would come and be her customer ; but i told her also , that as i had two months and more to do , i might perhaps be obliged to stay longer with her than three months , and desired to know if she would not be obliged to remove me before it was proper . no , she said ; her house was large , and besides , she never put anybody to remove , that had lain in , till they were willing to go ; and if she had more ladies offered , she was not so ill-beloved among her neighbours but she could provide accommodations for twenty , if there was occasion .
i found she was an eminent lady in her way ; and , in short , i agreed to put myself into her hands , and promised her . she then talked of other things , looked about into my accommodations where i was , found fault with my wanting attendance and conveniences , and that i should not be used so at her house .
i told her i was shy of speaking , for the woman of the house looked stranger , or at least i thought so , since i had been ill , because i was with child ; and i was afraid she would put some affront or other upon me , supposing that i had been able to give but a slight account of myself .
'oh dear , ' said she , ' her ladyship is no stranger to these things ; she has tried to entertain ladies in your condition several times , but she could not secure the parish ; and besides , she is not such a nice lady as you take her to be ; however , since you are a-going , you shall not meddle with her , but i 'll see you are a little better looked after while you are here than i think you are , and it shall not cost you the more neither . '
i did not understand her at all ; however , i thanked her , and so we parted .
the next morning she sent me a chicken roasted and hot , and a pint bottle of sherry , and ordered the maid to tell me that she was to wait on me every day as long as i stayed there .
this was surprisingly good and kind , and i accepted it very willingly . at night she sent to me again , to know if i wanted anything , and how i did , and to order the maid to come to her in the morning with my dinner . the maid had orders to make me some chocolate in the morning before she came away , and did so , and at noon she brought me the sweetbread of a breast of veal , whole , and a dish of soup for my dinner ; and after this manner she nursed me up at a distance , so that i was mightily well pleased , and quickly well , for indeed my dejections before were the principal part of my illness .
i expected , as is usually the case among such people , that the servant she sent me would have been some imprudent brazen wench of drury lane breeding , and i was very uneasy at having her with me upon that account ; so i would not let her lie in that house the first night by any means , but had my eyes about me as narrowly as if she had been a public thief .
my gentlewoman guessed presently what was the matter , and sent her back with a short note , that i might depend upon the honesty of her maid ; that she would be answerable for her upon all accounts ; and that she took no servants into her house without very good security for their fidelity .
i was then perfectly easy ; and indeed the maid 's behaviour spoke for itself , for a modester , quieter , soberer girl never came into anybody 's family , and i found her so afterwards .
as soon as i was well enough to go abroad , i went with the maid to see the house , and to see the apartment i was to have ; and everything was so handsome and so clean and well , that , in short , i had nothing to say , but was wonderfully pleased and satisfied with what i had met with , which , considering the melancholy circumstances i was in , was far beyond what i looked for .
it might be expected that i should give some account of the nature of the wicked practices of this woman , in whose hands i was now fallen ; but it would be too much encouragement to the vice , to let the world see what easy measures were here taken to rid the women 's unwelcome burthen of a child clandestinely gotten .
this grave matron had several sorts of practice , and this was one particular , that if a child was born , though not in her house ( for she had occasion to be called to many private labours ) , she had people at hand , who for a piece of money would take the child off their hands , and off from the hands of the parish too ; and those children , as she said , were honestly provided for and taken care of . what should become of them all , considering so many , as by her account she was concerned with , i cannot conceive .
i had many times discourses upon that subject with her ; but she was full of this argument , that she save the life of many an innocent lamb , as she called them , which would otherwise perhaps have been murdered ; and of many women who , made desperate by the misfortune , would otherwise be tempted to destroy their children , and bring themselves to the gallows .
i granted her that this was true , and a very commendable thing , provided the poor children fell into good hands afterwards , and were not abused , starved , and neglected by the nurses that bred them up .
she answered , that she always took care of that , and had no nurses in her business but what were very good , honest people , and such as might be depended upon .
i could say nothing to the contrary , and so was obliged to say , ' madam , i do not question you do your part honestly , but what those people do afterwards is the main question ' ; and she stopped my mouth again with saying that she took the utmost care about it .
the only thing i found in all her conversation on these subjects that gave me any distaste , was , that one time in discouraging about my being far gone with child , and the time i expected to come , she said something that looked as if she could help me off with my burthen sooner , if i was willing ; or , in english , that she could give me something to make me miscarry , if i had a desire to put an end to my troubles that way ; but i soon let her see that i abhorred the thoughts of it ; and , to do her justice , she put it off so cleverly , that i could not say she really intended it , or whether she only mentioned the practice as a horrible thing ; for she couched her words so well , and took my meaning so quickly , that she gave her negative before i could explain myself .
to bring this part into as narrow a compass as possible , i quitted my lodging at st. jones 's and went to my new governess , for so they called her in the house , and there i was indeed treated with so much courtesy , so carefully looked to , so handsomely provided , and everything so well , that i was surprised at it , and could not at first see what advantage my governess made of it ; but i found afterwards that she professed to make no profit of lodgers ' diet , nor indeed could she get much by it , but that her profit lay in the other articles of her management , and she made enough that way , i assure you ; for ' tis scarce credible what practice she had , as well abroad as at home , and yet all upon the private account , or , in plain english , the whoring account .
while i was in her house , which was near four months , she had no less than twelve ladies of pleasure brought to bed within the doors , and i think she had two-and-thirty , or thereabouts , under her conduct without doors , whereof one , as nice as she was with me , was lodged with my old landlady at st. jones 's .
while i was there , and before i was brought to bed , i received a letter from my trustee at the bank , full of kind , obliging things , and earnestly pressing me to return to london .
it was near a fortnight old when it came to me , because it had been first sent into lancashire , and then returned to me . he concludes with telling me that he had obtained a decree , i think he called it , against his wife , and that he would be ready to make good his engagement to me , if i would accept of him , adding a great many protestations of kindness and affection , such as he would have been far from offering if he had known the circumstances i had been in , and which as it was i had been very far from deserving .
i returned an answer to his letter , and dated it at liverpool , but sent it by messenger , alleging that it came in cover to a friend in town .
i gave him joy of his deliverance , but raised some scruples at the lawfulness of his marrying again , and told him i supposed he would consider very seriously upon that point before he resolved on it , the consequence being too great for a man of his judgment to venture rashly upon a thing of that nature ; so concluded , wishing him very well in whatever he resolved , without letting him into anything of my own mind , or giving any answer to his proposal of my coming to london to him , but mentioned at a distance my intention to return the latter end of the year , this being dated in april .
i was brought to bed about the middle of may and had another brave boy , and myself in as good condition as usual on such occasions . my governess did her part as a midwife with the greatest art and dexterity imaginable , and far beyond all that ever i had had any experience of before .
her care of me in my travail , and after in my lying in , was such , that if she had been my own mother it could not have been better .
let none be encouraged in their loose practices from this dexterous lady 's management , for she is gone to her place , and i dare say has left nothing behind her that can or will come up on it .
i think i had been brought to bed about twenty-two days when i received another letter from my friend at the bank , with the surprising news that he had obtained a final sentence of divorce against his wife , and had served her with it on such a day , and that he had such an answer to give to all my scruples about his marrying again , as i could not expect , and as he had no desire of ; for that his wife , who had been under some remorse before for her usage of him , as soon as she had the account that he had gained his point , had very unhappily destroyed herself that same evening .
he expressed himself very handsomely as to his being concerned at her disaster , but cleared himself of having any hand in it , and that he had only done himself justice in a case in which he was notoriously injured and abused . however , he said that he was extremely afflicted at it , and had no view of any satisfaction left in his world , but only in the hope that i would come and relieve him by my company ; and then he pressed me violently indeed to give him some hopes that i would at least come up to town and let him see me , when he would further enter into discourse about it .
i was exceedingly surprised at the news , and began now seriously to reflect on my present circumstances , and the inexpressible misfortune it was to me to have a child upon my hands , and what to do in it i knew not .
at last i opened my case at a distance to my governess .
i appeared melancholy and uneasy for several days , and she lay at me continually to know what trouble me . i could not for my life tell her that i had an offer of marriage , after i had so often told her that i had a husband , so that i really knew not what to say to her . i owned i had something which very much troubled me , but at the same time told her i could not speak of it to any one alive .
she continued importuning me several days , but it was impossible , i told her , for me to commit the secret to anybody .
this , instead of being an answer to her , increased her importunities ; she urged her having been trusted with the greatest secrets of this nature , that it was her business to conceal everything , and that to discover things of that nature would be her ruin . she asked me if ever i had found her tattling to me of other people 's affairs , and how could i suspect her ?
she told me , to unfold myself to her was telling it to nobody ; that she was silent as death ; that it must be a very strange case indeed that she could not help me out of ; but to conceal it was to deprive myself of all possible help , or means of help , and to deprive her of the opportunity of serving me .
in short , she had such a bewitching eloquence , and so great a power of persuasion that there was no concealing anything from her .
so i resolved to unbosom myself to her . i told her the history of my lancashire marriage , and how both of us had been disappointed ; how we came together , and how we parted ; how he absolutely discharged me , as far as lay in him , free liberty to marry again , protesting that if he knew it he would never claim me , or disturb or expose me ; that i thought i was free , but was dreadfully afraid to venture , for fear of the consequences that might follow in case of a discovery .
then i told her what a good offer i had ; showed her my friend 's two last letters , inviting me to come to london , and let her see with what affection and earnestness they were written , but blotted out the name , and also the story about the disaster of his wife , only that she was dead .
she fell a-laughing at my scruples about marrying , and told me the other was no marriage , but a cheat on both sides ; and that , as we were parted by mutual consent , the nature of the contract was destroyed , and the obligation was mutually discharged .
she had arguments for this at the tip of her tongue ; and , in short , reasoned me out of my reason ; not but that it was too by the help of my own inclination .
but then came the great and main difficulty , and that was the child ; this , she told me in so many words , must be removed , and that so as that it should never be possible for any one to discover it .
i knew there was no marrying without entirely concealing that i had had a child , for he would soon have discovered by the age of it that it was born , nay , and gotten too , since my parley with him , and that would have destroyed all the affair .
but it touched my heart so forcibly to think of parting entirely with the child , and , for aught i knew , of having it murdered , or starved by neglect and ill-usage ( which was much the same ) , that i could not think of it without horror .
all those things represented themselves to my view , and that is the blackest and most frightful form : and as i was very free with my governess , whom i had now learned to call mother , i represented to her all the dark thoughts which i had upon me about it , and told her what distress i was in .
she seemed graver by much at this part than at the other ; but as she was hardened in these things beyond all possibility of being touched with the religious part , and the scruples about the murder , so she was equally impenetrable in that part which related to affection .
she asked me if she had not been careful and tender to me in my lying in , as if i had been her own child .
i told her i owned she had .
'well , my dear , ' says she , ' and when you are gone , what are you to me ?
and what would it be to me if you were to be hanged ?
do you think there are not women who , as it is their trade and they get their bread by it , value themselves upon their being as careful of children as their own mothers can be , and understand it rather better ?
yes , yes , child , ' says she , ' fear it not ; how were we nursed ourselves ?
are you sure you was nursed up by your own mother ? and yet you look fat and fair , child , ' says the old beldam ; and with that she stroked me over the face .
'never be concerned , child , ' says she , going on in her drolling way ; ' i have no murderers about me ; i employ the best and the honestest nurses that can be had , and have as few children miscarry under their hands as there would if they were all nursed by mothers ; we want neither care nor skill . '
she touched me to the quick when she asked if i was sure that i was nursed by my own mother ; on the contrary i was sure i was not ; and i trembled , and looked pale at the very expression .
'sure , ' said i to myself , ' this creature cannot be a witch , or have any conversation with a spirit , that can inform her what was done with me before i was able to know it myself ' ; and i looked at her as if i had been frightened ; but reflecting that it could not be possible for her to know anything about me , that disorder went off , and i began to be easy , but it was not presently .
she perceived the disorder i was in , but did not know the meaning of it ; so she ran on in her wild talk upon the weakness of my supposing that children were murdered because they were not all nursed by the mother , and to persuade me that the children she disposed of were as well used as if the mothers had the nursing of them themselves .
'it may be true , mother , ' says i , ' for aught i know , but my doubts are very strongly grounded indeed . '
'come , then , ' says she , ' let 's hear some of them . '
'why , first , ' says i , ' you give a piece of money to these people to take the child off the parent 's hands , and to take care of it as long as it lives .
now we know , mother , ' said i , ' that those are poor people , and their gain consists in being quit of the charge as soon as they can ; how can i doubt but that , as it is best for them to have the child die , they are not over solicitous about life ? '
'this is all vapours and fancy , ' says the old woman ; ' i tell you their credit depends upon the child 's life , and they are as careful as any mother of you all . '
'o mother , ' says i , ' if i was but sure my little baby would be carefully looked to , and have justice done it , i should be happy indeed ; but it is impossible i can be satisfied in that point unless i saw it , and to see it would be ruin and destruction to me , as now my case stands ; so what to do i know not . '
'a fine story ! ' says the governess .
'you would see the child , and you would not see the child ; you would be concealed and discovered both together . these are things impossible , my dear ; so you must e 'en do as other conscientious mothers have done before you , and be contented with things as they must be , though they are not as you wish them to be . '
i understood what she meant by conscientious mothers ; she would have said conscientious whores , but she was not willing to disoblige me , for really in this case i was not a whore , because legally married , the force of former marriage excepted .
however , let me be what i would , i was not come up to that pitch of hardness common to the profession ; i mean , to be unnatural , and regardless of the safety of my child ; and i preserved this honest affection so long , that i was upon the point of giving up my friend at the bank , who lay so hard at me to come to him and marry him , that , in short , there was hardly any room to deny him .
at last my old governess came to me , with her usual assurance .
'come , my dear , ' says she , ' i have found out a way how you shall be at a certainty that your child shall be used well , and yet the people that take care of it shall never know you , or who the mother of the child is . '
'oh mother , ' says i , ' if you can do so , you will engage me to you for ever . '
'well , ' says she , ' are you willing to be a some small annual expense , more than what we usually give to the people we contract with ? '
'ay , ' says i , ' with all my heart , provided i may be concealed . '
'as to that , ' says the governess , ' you shall be secure , for the nurse shall never so much as dare to inquire about you , and you shall once or twice a year go with me and see your child , and see how ' tis used , and be satisfied that it is in good hands , nobody knowing who you are . '
'why , ' said i , ' do you think , mother , that when i come to see my child , i shall be able to conceal my being the mother of it ?
do you think that possible ? '
'well , well , ' says my governess , ' if you discover it , the nurse shall be never the wiser ; for she shall be forbid to ask any questions about you , or to take any notice . if she offers it , she shall lose the money which you are suppose to give her , and the child shall be taken from her too . '
i was very well pleased with this . so the next week a countrywoman was brought from hertford , or thereabouts , who was to take the child off our hands entirely for # 10 in money . but if i would allow # 5 a year more of her , she would be obliged to bring the child to my governess 's house as often as we desired , or we should come down and look at it , and see how well she used it .
the woman was very wholesome-looking , a likely woman , a cottager 's wife , but she had very good clothes and linen , and everything well about her ; and with a heavy heart and many a tear , i let her have my child .
i had been down at hertford , and looked at her and at her dwelling , which i liked well enough ; and i promised her great things if she would be kind to the child , so she knew at first word that i was the child 's mother .
but she seemed to be so much out of the way , and to have no room to inquire after me , that i thought i was safe enough .
so , in short , i consented to let her have the child , and i gave her # 10 ; that is to say , i gave it to my governess , who gave it the poor woman before my face , she agreeing never to return the child back to me , or to claim anything more for its keeping or bringing up ; only that i promised , if she took a great deal of care of it , i would give her something more as often as i came to see it ; so that i was not bound to pay the # 5 , only that i promised my governess i would do it .
and thus my great care was over , after a manner , which though it did not at all satisfy my mind , yet was the most convenient for me , as my affairs then stood , of any that could be thought of at that time .
i then began to write to my friend at the bank in a more kindly style , and particularly about the beginning of july i sent him a letter , that i proposed to be in town some time in august . he returned me an answer in the most passionate terms imaginable , and desired me to let him have timely notice , and he would come and meet me , two day 's journey .
this puzzled me scurvily , and i did not know what answer to make of it .
once i resolved to take the stage-coach to west chester , on purpose only to have the satisfaction of coming back , that he might see me really come in the same coach ; for i had a jealous thought , though i had no ground for it at all , lest he should think i was not really in the country . and it was no ill-grounded thought as you shall hear presently .
i endeavoured to reason myself out of it , but it was in vain ; the impression lay so strong on my mind , that it was not to be resisted .
at last it came as an addition to my new design of going into the country , that it would be an excellent blind to my old governess , and would cover entirely all my other affairs , for she did not know in the least whether my new lover lived in london or in lancashire ; and when i told her my resolution , she was fully persuaded it was in lancashire .
having taken my measure for this journey i let her know it , and sent the maid that tended me , from the beginning , to take a place for me in the coach . she would have had me let the maid have waited on me down to the last stage , and come up again in the waggon , but i convinced her it would not be convenient .
when i went away , she told me she would enter into no measures for correspondence , for she saw evidently that my affection to my child would cause me to write to her , and to visit her too when i came to town again .
i assured her it would , and so took my leave , well satisfied to have been freed from such a house , however good my accommodations there had been , as i have related above .
i took the place in the coach not to its full extent , but to a place called stone , in cheshire , i think it is , where i not only had no manner of business , but not so much as the least acquaintance with any person in the town or near it . but i knew that with money in the pocket one is at home anywhere ; so i lodged there two or three days , till , watching my opportunity , i found room in another stage-coach , and took passage back again for london , sending a letter to my gentleman that i should be such a certain day at stony-stratford , where the coachman told me he was to lodge .
it happened to be a chance coach that i had taken up , which , having been hired on purpose to carry some gentlemen to west chester who were going for ireland , was now returning , and did not tie itself to exact times or places as the stages did ; so that , having been obliged to lie still on sunday , he had time to get himself ready to come out , which otherwise he could not have done .
however , his warning was so short , that he could not reach to stony-stratford time enough to be with me at night , but he met me at a place called brickhill the next morning , as we were just coming in to tow .
i confess i was very glad to see him , for i had thought myself a little disappointed over-night , seeing i had gone so far to contrive my coming on purpose .
he pleased me doubly too by the figure he came in , for he brought a very handsome ( gentleman 's ) coach and four horses , with a servant to attend him .
he took me out of the stage-coach immediately , which stopped at an inn in brickhill ; and putting into the same inn , he set up his own coach , and bespoke his dinner .
i asked him what he meant by that , for i was for going forward with the journey . he said , no , i had need of a little rest upon the road , and that was a very good sort of a house , though it was but a little town ; so we would go no farther that night , whatever came of it .
i did not press him much , for since he had come so to meet me , and put himself to so much expense , it was but reasonable i should oblige him a little too ; so i was easy as to that point .
after dinner we walked to see the town , to see the church , and to view the fields , and the country , as is usual for strangers to do ; and our landlord was our guide in going to see the church .
i observed my gentleman inquired pretty much about the parson , and i took the hint immediately that he certainly would propose to be married ; and though it was a sudden thought , it followed presently , that , in short , i would not refuse him ; for , to be plain , with my circumstances i was in no condition now to say no ; i had no reason now to run any more such hazards .
but while these thoughts ran round in my head , which was the work but of a few moments , i observed my landlord took him aside and whispered to him , though not very softly neither , for so much i overheard : ' sir , if you shall have occasion---- ' the rest i could not hear , but it seems it was to this purpose : ' sir , if you shall have occasion for a minister , i have a friend a little way off that will serve you , and be as private as you please . '
my gentleman answered loud enough for me to hear , ' very well , i believe i shall . '
i was no sooner come back to the inn but he fell upon me with irresistible words , that since he had had the good fortune to meet me , and everything concurred , it would be hastening his felicity if i would put an end to the matter just there .
'what do you mean ? ' says i , colouring a little .
'what , in an inn , and upon the road !
bless us all , ' said i , as if i had been surprised , ' how can you talk so ? '
'oh , i can talk so very well , ' says he , ' i came a-purpose to talk so , and i 'll show you that i did ' ; and with that he pulls out a great bundle of papers .
'you fright me , ' said i ; ' what are all these ? '
'don 't be frighted , my dear , ' said he , and kissed me .
this was the first time that he had been so free to call me ' my dear ' ; then he repeated it , ' don 't be frighted ; you shall see what it is all ' ; then he laid them all abroad .
there was first the deed or sentence of divorce from his wife , and the full evidence of her playing the whore ; then there were the certificates of the minister and churchwardens of the parish where she lived , proving that she was buried , and intimating the manner of her death ; the copy of the coroner 's warrant for a jury to sit upon her , and the verdict of the jury , who brought it in non compos mentis .
all this was indeed to the purpose , and to give me satisfaction , though , by the way , i was not so scrupulous , had he known all , but that i might have taken him without it .
however , i looked them all over as well as i could , and told him that this was all very clear indeed , but that he need not have given himself the trouble to have brought them out with him , for it was time enough .
well , he said , it might be time enough for me , but no time but the present time was time enough for him .
there were other papers rolled up , and i asked him what they were .
'why , ay , ' says he , ' that 's the question i wanted to have you ask me ' ; so he unrolls them and takes out a little shagreen case , and gives me out of it a very fine diamond ring .
i could not refuse it , if i had a mind to do so , for he put it upon my finger ; so i made him a curtsy and accepted it .
then he takes out another ring : ' and this , ' says he , ' is for another occasion , ' so he puts that in his pocket .
'well , but let me see it , though , ' says i , and smiled ; ' i guess what it is ; i think you are mad . '
'i should have been mad if i had done less , ' says he , and still he did not show me , and i had a great mind to see it ; so i says , ' well , but let me see it . '
'hold , ' says he , ' first look here ' ; then he took up the roll again and read it , and behold ! it was a licence for us to be married .
'why , ' says i , ' are you distracted ?
why , you were fully satisfied that i would comply and yield at first word , or resolved to take no denial . '
'the last is certainly the case , ' said he .
'but you may be mistaken , ' said i .
'no , no , ' says he , ' how can you think so ?
i must not be denied , i can 't be denied ' ; and with that he fell to kissing me so violently , i could not get rid of him .
there was a bed in the room , and we were walking to and again , eager in the discourse ; at last he takes me by surprise in his arms , and threw me on the bed and himself with me , and holding me fast in his arms , but without the least offer of any indecency , courted me to consent with such repeated entreaties and arguments , protesting his affection , and vowing he would not let me go till i had promised him , that at last i said , ' why , you resolve not to be denied , indeed , i can 't be denied . '
'well , well , ' said i , and giving him a slight kiss , ' then you shan 't be denied , ' said i ; ' let me get up . '
he was so transported with my consent , and the kind manner of it , that i began to think once he took it for a marriage , and would not stay for the form ; but i wronged him , for he gave over kissing me , and then giving me two or three kisses again , thanked me for my kind yielding to him ; and was so overcome with the satisfaction and joy of it , that i saw tears stand in his eyes .
i turned from him , for it filled my eyes with tears too , and i asked him leave to retire a little to my chamber .
if ever i had a grain of true repentance for a vicious and abominable life for twenty-four years past , it was then .
on , what a felicity is it to mankind , said i to myself , that they cannot see into the hearts of one another !
how happy had it been for me if i had been wife to a man of so much honesty , and so much affection from the beginning !
then it occurred to me , ' what an abominable creature am i ! and how is this innocent gentleman going to be abused by me !
how little does he think , that having divorced a whore , he is throwing himself into the arms of another ! that he is going to marry one that has lain with two brothers , and has had three children by her own brother ! one that was born in newgate , whose mother was a whore , and is now a transported thief ! one that has lain with thirteen men , and has had a child since he saw me !
poor gentleman ! ' said i , ' what is he going to do ? '
after this reproaching myself was over , it following thus : ' well , if i must be his wife , if it please god to give me grace , i 'll be a true wife to him , and love him suitably to the strange excess of his passion for me ; i will make him amends if possible , by what he shall see , for the cheats and abuses i put upon him , which he does not see . '
he was impatient for my coming out of my chamber , but finding me long , he went downstairs and talked with my landlord about the parson .
my landlord , an officious though well-meaning fellow , had sent away for the neighbouring clergyman ; and when my gentleman began to speak of it to him , and talk of sending for him , ' sir , ' says he to him , ' my friend is in the house ' ; so without any more words he brought them together .
when he came to the minister , he asked him if he would venture to marry a couple of strangers that were both willing .
the parson said that mr. ---- had said something to him of it ; that he hoped it was no clandestine business ; that he seemed to be a grave gentleman , and he supposed madam was not a girl , so that the consent of friends should be wanted .
'to put you out of doubt of that , ' says my gentleman , ' read this paper ' ; and out he pulls the license .
'i am satisfied , ' says the minister ; ' where is the lady ? '
'you shall see her presently , ' says my gentleman .
when he had said thus he comes upstairs , and i was by that time come out of my room ; so he tells me the minister was below , and that he had talked with him , and that upon showing him the license , he was free to marry us with all his heart , ' but he asks to see you ' ; so he asked if i would let him come up .
" tis time enough , ' said i , ' in the morning , is it not ? '
'why , ' said he , ' my dear , he seemed to scruple whether it was not some young girl stolen from her parents , and i assured him we were both of age to command our own consent ; and that made him ask to see you . '
'well , ' said i , ' do as you please ' ; so up they brings the parson , and a merry , good sort of gentleman he was .
he had been told , it seems , that we had met there by accident , that i came in the chester coach , and my gentleman in his own coach to meet me ; that we were to have met last night at stony-stratford , but that he could not reach so far .
'well , sir , ' says the parson , ' every ill turn has some good in it . the disappointment , sir , ' says he to my gentleman , ' was yours , and the good turn is mine , for if you had met at stony-stratford i had not had the honour to marry you .
landlord , have you a common prayer book ? '
i started as if i had been frightened .
'lord , sir , ' says i , ' what do you mean ?
what , to marry in an inn , and at night too ? '
'madam , ' says the minister , ' if you will have it be in the church , you shall ; but i assure you your marriage will be as firm here as in the church ; we are not tied by the canons to marry nowhere but in the church ; and if you will have it in the church , it will be a public as a county fair ; and as for the time of day , it does not at all weigh in this case ; our princes are married in their chambers , and at eight or ten o 'clock at night . '
i was a great while before i could be persuaded , and pretended not to be willing at all to be married but in the church . but it was all grimace ; so i seemed at last to be prevailed on , and my landlord and his wife and daughter were called up .
my landlord was father and clerk and all together , and we were married , and very merry we were ; though i confess the self-reproaches which i had upon me before lay close to me , and extorted every now and then a deep sigh from me , which my bridegroom took notice of , and endeavoured to encourage me , thinking , poor man , that i had some little hesitations at the step i had taken so hastily .
we enjoyed ourselves that evening completely , and yet all was kept so private in the inn that not a servant in the house knew of it , for my landlady and her daughter waited on me , and would not let any of the maids come upstairs , except while we were at supper .
my landlady 's daughter i called my bridesmaid ; and sending for a shopkeeper the next morning , i gave the young woman a good suit of knots , as good as the town would afford , and finding it was a lace-making town , i gave her mother a piece of bone-lace for a head .
one reason that my landlord was so close was , that he was unwilling the minister of the parish should hear of it ; but for all that somebody heard of it , so at that we had the bells set a-ringing the next morning early , and the music , such as the town would afford , under our window ; but my landlord brazened it out , that we were married before we came thither , only that , being his former guests , we would have our wedding-supper at his house .
we could not find in our hearts to stir the next day ; for , in short , having been disturbed by the bells in the morning , and having perhaps not slept overmuch before , we were so sleepy afterwards that we lay in bed till almost twelve o 'clock .
i begged my landlady that we might not have any more music in the town , nor ringing of bells , and she managed it so well that we were very quiet ; but an odd passage interrupted all my mirth for a good while .
the great room of the house looked into the street , and my new spouse being belowstairs , i had walked to the end of the room ; and it being a pleasant , warm day , i had opened the window , and was standing at it for some air , when i saw three gentlemen come by on horseback and go into an inn just against us .
it was not to be concealed , nor was it so doubtful as to leave me any room to question it , but the second of the three was my lancashire husband .
i was frightened to death ; i never was in such a consternation in my life ; i though i should have sunk into the ground ; my blood ran chill in my veins , and i trembled as if i had been in a cold fit of ague .
i say , there was no room to question the truth of it ; i knew his clothes , i knew his horse , and i knew his face .
the first sensible reflect i made was , that my husband was not by to see my disorder , and that i was very glad of it .
the gentlemen had not been long in the house but they came to the window of their room , as is usual ; but my window was shut , you may be sure .
however , i could not keep from peeping at them , and there i saw him again , heard him call out to one of the servants of the house for something he wanted , and received all the terrifying confirmations of its being the same person that were possible to be had .
my next concern was to know , if possible , what was his business there ; but that was impossible .
sometimes my imagination formed an idea of one frightful thing , sometimes of another ; sometime i thought he had discovered me , and was come to upbraid me with ingratitude and breach of honour ; and every moment i fancied he was coming up the stairs to insult me ; and innumerable fancies came into my head of what was never in his head , nor ever could be , unless the devil had revealed it to him .
i remained in this fright nearly two hours , and scarce ever kept my eye from the window or door of the inn where they were .
at last , hearing a great clatter in the passage of their inn , i ran to the window , and , to my great satisfaction , saw them all three go out again and travel on westward . had they gone towards london , i should have been still in a fright , lest i should meet him on the road again , and that he should know me ; but he went the contrary way , and so i was eased of that disorder .
we resolved to be going the next day , but about six o 'clock at night we were alarmed with a great uproar in the street , and people riding as if they had been out of their wits ; and what was it but a hue-and-cry after three highwaymen that had robbed two coaches and some other travellers near dunstable hill , and notice had , it seems , been given that they had been seen at brickhill at such a house , meaning the house where those gentlemen had been .
the house was immediately beset and searched , but there were witnesses enough that the gentlemen had been gone over three hours .
the crowd having gathered about , we had the news presently ; and i was heartily concerned now another way .
i presently told the people of the house , that i durst to say those were not the persons , for that i knew one of the gentlemen to be a very honest person , and of a good estate in lancashire .
the constable who came with the hue-and-cry was immediately informed of this , and came over to me to be satisfied from my own mouth , and i assured him that i saw the three gentlemen as i was at the window ; that i saw them afterwards at the windows of the room they dined in ; that i saw them afterwards take horse , and i could assure him i knew one of them to be such a man , that he was a gentleman of a very good estate , and an undoubted character in lancashire , from whence i was just now upon my journey .
the assurance with which i delivered this gave the mob gentry a check , and gave the constable such satisfaction , that he immediately sounded a retreat , told his people these were not the men , but that he had an account they were very honest gentlemen ; and so they went all back again .
what the truth of the matter was i knew not , but certain it was that the coaches were robbed at dunstable hill , and # 560 in money taken ; besides , some of the lace merchants that always travel that way had been visited too .
as to the three gentlemen , that remains to be explained hereafter .
well , this alarm stopped us another day , though my spouse was for travelling , and told me that it was always safest travelling after a robbery , for that the thieves were sure to be gone far enough off when they had alarmed the country ; but i was afraid and uneasy , and indeed principally lest my old acquaintance should be upon the road still , and should chance to see me .
i never lived four pleasanter days together in my life . i was a mere bride all this while , and my new spouse strove to make me entirely easy in everything .
oh could this state of life have continued , how had all my past troubles been forgot , and my future sorrows avoided ! but i had a past life of a most wretched kind to account for , some if it in this world as well as in another .
we came away the fifth day ; and my landlord , because he saw me uneasy , mounted himself , his son , and three honest country fellows with good firearms , and , without telling us of it , followed the coach , and would see us safe into dunstable .
we could do no less than treat them very handsomely at dunstable , which cost my spouse about ten or twelve shillings , and something he gave the men for their time too , but my landlord would take nothing for himself .
this was the most happy contrivance for me that could have fallen out ; for had i come to london unmarried , i must either have come to him for the first night 's entertainment , or have discovered to him that i had not one acquaintance in the whole city of london that could receive a poor bride for the first night 's lodging with her spouse .
but now , being an old married woman , i made no scruple of going directly home with him , and there i took possession at once of a house well furnished , and a husband in very good circumstances , so that i had a prospect of a very happy life , if i knew how to manage it ; and i had leisure to consider of the real value of the life i was likely to live . how different it was to be from the loose ungoverned part i had acted before , and how much happier a life of virtue and sobriety is , than that which we call a life of pleasure .
oh had this particular scene of life lasted , or had i learned from that time i enjoyed it , to have tasted the true sweetness of it , and had i not fallen into that poverty which is the sure bane of virtue , how happy had i been , not only here , but perhaps for ever ! for while i lived thus , i was really a penitent for all my life past .
i looked back on it with abhorrence , and might truly be said to hate myself for it .
i often reflected how my lover at the bath , struck at the hand of god , repented and abandoned me , and refused to see me any more , though he loved me to an extreme ; but i , prompted by that worst of devils , poverty , returned to the vile practice , and made the advantage of what they call a handsome face to be the relief to my necessities , and beauty be a pimp to vice .
now i seemed landed in a safe harbour , after the stormy voyage of life past was at an end , and i began to be thankful for my deliverance . i sat many an hour by myself , and wept over the remembrance of past follies , and the dreadful extravagances of a wicked life , and sometimes i flattered myself that i had sincerely repented . but there are temptations which it is not in the power of human nature to resist , and few know what would be their case if driven to the same exigencies . as covetousness is the root of all evil , so poverty is , i believe , the worst of all snares . but i waive that discourse till i come to an experiment . i lived with this husband with the utmost tranquillity ; he was a quiet , sensible , sober man ; virtuous , modest , sincere , and in his business diligent and just . his business was in a narrow compass , and his income sufficient to a plentiful way of living in the ordinary way . i do not say to keep an equipage , and make a figure , as the world calls it , nor did i expect it , or desire it ; for as i abhorred the levity and extravagance of my former life , so i chose now to live retired , frugal , and within ourselves . i kept no company , made no visits ; minded my family , and obliged my husband ; and this kind of life became a pleasure to me .
we lived in an uninterrupted course of ease and content for five years , when a sudden blow from an almost invisible hand blasted all my happiness , and turned me out into the world in a condition the reverse of all that had been before it .
my husband having trusted one of his fellow-clerks with a sum of money , too much for our fortunes to bear the loss of , the clerk failed , and the loss fell very heavy on my husband , yet it was not so great neither but that , if he had had spirit and courage to have looked his misfortunes in the face , his credit was so good that , as i told him , he would easily recover it ; for to sink under trouble is to double the weight , and he that will die in it , shall die in it .
it was in vain to speak comfortably to him ; the wound had sunk too deep ; it was a stab that touched the vitals ; he grew melancholy and disconsolate , and from thence lethargic , and died .
i foresaw the blow , and was extremely oppressed in my mind , for i saw evidently that if he died i was undone .
i had had two children by him and no more , for , to tell the truth , it began to be time for me to leave bearing children , for i was now eight-and-forty , and i suppose if he had lived i should have had no more .
i was now left in a dismal and disconsolate case indeed , and in several things worse than ever .
first , it was past the flourishing time with me when i might expect to be courted for a mistress ; that agreeable part had declined some time , and the ruins only appeared of what had been ; and that which was worse than all this , that i was the most dejected , disconsolate creature alive . i that had encouraged my husband , and endeavoured to support his spirits under his trouble , could not support my own ; i wanted that spirit in trouble which i told him was so necessary to him for bearing the burthen .
but my case was indeed deplorable , for i was left perfectly friendless and helpless , and the loss my husband had sustained had reduced his circumstances so low , that though indeed i was not in debt , yet i could easily foresee that what was left would not support me long ; that while it wasted daily for subsistence , i had not way to increase it one shilling , so that it would be soon all spent , and then i saw nothing before me but the utmost distress ; and this represented itself so lively to my thoughts , that it seemed as if it was come , before it was really very near ; also my very apprehensions doubled the misery , for i fancied every sixpence that i paid for a loaf of bread was the last that i had in the world , and that to-morrow i was to fast , and be starved to death .
in this distress i had no assistant , no friend to comfort or advise me ; i sat and cried and tormented myself night and day , wringing my hands , and sometimes raving like a distracted woman ; and indeed i have often wondered it had not affected my reason , for i had the vapours to such a degree , that my understanding was sometimes quite lost in fancies and imaginations .
i lived two years in this dismal condition , wasting that little i had , weeping continually over my dismal circumstances , and , as it were , only bleeding to death , without the least hope or prospect of help from god or man ; and now i had cried too long , and so often , that tears were , as i might say , exhausted , and i began to be desperate , for i grew poor apace .
for a little relief i had put off my house and took lodgings ; and as i was reducing my living , so i sold off most of my goods , which put a little money in my pocket , and i lived near a year upon that , spending very sparingly , and eking things out to the utmost ; but still when i looked before me , my very heart would sink within me at the inevitable approach of misery and want .
oh let none read this part without seriously reflecting on the circumstances of a desolate state , and how they would grapple with mere want of friends and want of bread ; it will certainly make them think not of sparing what they have only , but of looking up to heaven for support , and of the wise man 's prayer , ' give me not poverty , lest i steal . '
let them remember that a time of distress is a time of dreadful temptation , and all the strength to resist is taken away ; poverty presses , the soul is made desperate by distress , and what can be done ?
it was one evening , when being brought , as i may say , to the last gasp , i think i may truly say i was distracted and raving , when prompted by i know not what spirit , and , as it were , doing i did not know what or why , i dressed me ( for i had still pretty good clothes ) and went out .
i am very sure i had no manner of design in my head when i went out ; i neither knew nor considered where to go , or on what business ; but as the devil carried me out and laid his bait for me , so he brought me , to be sure , to the place , for i knew not whither i was going or what i did .
wandering thus about , i knew not whither , i passed by an apothecary 's shop in leadenhall street , when i saw lie on a stool just before the counter a little bundle wrapped in a white cloth ; beyond it stood a maid-servant with her back to it , looking towards the top of the shop , where the apothecary 's apprentice , as i suppose , was standing upon the counter , with his back also to the door , and a candle in his hand , looking and reaching up to the upper shelf for something he wanted , so that both were engaged mighty earnestly , and nobody else in the shop .
this was the bait ; and the devil , who i said laid the snare , as readily prompted me as if he had spoke , for i remember , and shall never forget it , ' twas like a voice spoken to me over my shoulder , ' take the bundle ; be quick ; do it this moment . '
it was no sooner said but i stepped into the shop , and with my back to the wench , as if i had stood up for a cart that was going by , i put my hand behind me and took the bundle , and went off with it , the maid or the fellow not perceiving me , or any one else .
it is impossible to express the horror of my soul all the while i did it .
when i went away i had no heart to run , or scarce to mend my pace . i crossed the street indeed , and went down the first turning i came to , and i think it was a street that went through into fenchurch street . from thence i crossed and turned through so many ways and turnings , that i could never tell which way it was , not where i went ; for i felt not the ground i stepped on , and the farther i was out of danger , the faster i went , till , tired and out of breath , i was forced to sit down on a little bench at a door , and then i began to recover , and found i was got into thames street , near billingsgate .
i rested me a little and went on ; my blood was all in a fire ; my heart beat as if i was in a sudden fright . in short , i was under such a surprise that i still knew not wither i was going , or what to do .
after i had tired myself thus with walking a long way about , and so eagerly , i began to consider and make home to my lodging , where i came about nine o 'clock at night .
when the bundle was made up for , or on what occasion laid where i found it , i knew not , but when i came to open it i found there was a suit of childbed-linen in it , very good and almost new , the lace very fine ; there was a silver porringer of a pint , a small silver mug and six spoons , with some other linen , a good smock , and three silk handkerchiefs , and in the mug , wrapped up in a paper , 18s .
6d. in money . all the while i was opening these things i was under such dreadful impressions of fear , and i such terror of mind , though i was perfectly safe , that i cannot express the manner of it .
i sat me down , and cried most vehemently . ' lord , ' said i , ' what am i now ? a thief !
why , i shall be taken next time , and be carried to newgate and be tried for my life ! '
and with that i cried again a long time , and i am sure , as poor as i was , if i had durst for fear , i would certainly have carried the things back again ; but that went off after a while .
well , i went to bed for that night , but slept little ; the horror of the fact was upon my mind , and i knew not what i said or did all night , and all the next day .
then i was impatient to hear some news of the loss ; and would fain know how it was , whether they were a poor body 's goods , or a rich . ' perhaps , ' said i , ' it may be some poor widow like me , that had packed up these goods to go and sell them for a little bread for herself and a poor child , and are now starving and breaking their hearts for want of that little they would have fetched . ' and this thought tormented me worse than all the rest , for three or four days ' time .
but my own distresses silenced all these reflections , and the prospect of my own starving , which grew every day more frightful to me , hardened my heart by degrees .
it was then particularly heavy upon my mind , that i had been reformed , and had , as i hoped , repented of all my past wickedness ; that i had lived a sober , grave , retired life for several years , but now i should be driven by the dreadful necessity of my circumstances to the gates of destruction , soul and body ; and two or three times i fell upon my knees , praying to god , as well as i could , for deliverance ; but i cannot but say , my prayers had no hope in them . i knew not what to do ; it was all fear without , and dark within ; and i reflected on my past life as not sincerely repented of , that heaven was now beginning to punish me on this side the grave , and would make me as miserable as i had been wicked .
had i gone on here i had perhaps been a true penitent ; but i had an evil counsellor within , and he was continually prompting me to relieve myself by the worst means ; so one evening he tempted me again , by the same wicked impulse that had said ' take that bundle , ' to go out again and seek for what might happen .
i went out now by daylight , and wandered about i knew not whither , and in search of i knew not what , when the devil put a snare in my way of a dreadful nature indeed , and such a one as i have never had before or since .
going through aldersgate street , there was a pretty little child who had been at a dancing-school , and was going home , all alone ; and my prompter , like a true devil , set me upon this innocent creature .
i talked to it , and it prattled to me again , and i took it by the hand and led it along till i came to a paved alley that goes into bartholomew close , and i led it in there .
the child said that was not its way home .
i said , ' yes , my dear , it is ; i 'll show you the way home . '
the child had a little necklace on of gold beads , and i had my eye upon that , and in the dark of the alley i stooped , pretending to mend the child 's clog that was loose , and took off her necklace , and the child never felt it , and so led the child on again .
here , i say , the devil put me upon killing the child in the dark alley , that it might not cry , but the very thought frighted me so that i was ready to drop down ; but i turned the child about and bade it go back again , for that was not its way home . the child said , so she would , and i went through into bartholomew close , and then turned round to another passage that goes into st. john street ; then , crossing into smithfield , went down chick lane and into field lane to holborn bridge , when , mixing with the crowd of people usually passing there , it was not possible to have been found out ; and thus i enterprised my second sally into the world .
the thoughts of this booty put out all the thoughts of the first , and the reflections i had made wore quickly off ; poverty , as i have said , hardened my heart , and my own necessities made me regardless of anything .
the last affair left no great concern upon me , for as i did the poor child no harm , i only said to myself , i had given the parents a just reproof for their negligence in leaving the poor little lamb to come home by itself , and it would teach them to take more care of it another time .
this string of beads was worth about twelve or fourteen pounds .
i suppose it might have been formerly the mother 's , for it was too big for the child 's wear , but that perhaps the vanity of the mother , to have her child look fine at the dancing-school , had made her let the child wear it ; and no doubt the child had a maid sent to take care of it , but she , careless jade , was taken up perhaps with some fellow that had met her by the way , and so the poor baby wandered till it fell into my hands .
however , i did the child no harm ; i did not so much as fright it , for i had a great many tender thoughts about me yet , and did nothing but what , as i may say , mere necessity drove me to .
i had a great many adventures after this , but i was young in the business , and did not know how to manage , otherwise than as the devil put things into my head ; and indeed he was seldom backward to me .
one adventure i had which was very lucky to me .
i was going through lombard street in the dusk of the evening , just by the end of three king court , when on a sudden comes a fellow running by me as swift as lightning , and throws a bundle that was in his hand , just behind me , as i stood up against the corner of the house at the turning into the alley .
just as he threw it in he said , ' god bless you , mistress , let it lie there a little , ' and away he runs swift as the wind .
after him comes two more , and immediately a young fellow without his hat , crying ' stop thief ! ' and after him two or three more .
they pursued the two last fellows so close , that they were forced to drop what they had got , and one of them was taken into the bargain , and other got off free .
i stood stock-still all this while , till they came back , dragging the poor fellow they had taken , and lugging the things they had found , extremely well satisfied that they had recovered the booty and taken the thief ; and thus they passed by me , for i looked only like one who stood up while the crowd was gone .
once or twice i asked what was the matter , but the people neglected answering me , and i was not very importunate ; but after the crowd was wholly past , i took my opportunity to turn about and take up what was behind me and walk away . this , indeed , i did with less disturbance than i had done formerly , for these things i did not steal , but they were stolen to my hand . i got safe to my lodgings with this cargo , which was a piece of fine black lustring silk , and a piece of velvet ; the latter was but part of a piece of about eleven yards ; the former was a whole piece of near fifty yards .
it seems it was a mercer 's shop that they had rifled . i say rifled , because the goods were so considerable that they had lost ; for the goods that they recovered were pretty many , and i believe came to about six or seven several pieces of silk . how they came to get so many i could not tell ; but as i had only robbed the thief , i made no scruple at taking these goods , and being very glad of them too .
i had pretty good luck thus far , and i made several adventures more , though with but small purchase , yet with good success , but i went in daily dread that some mischief would befall me , and that i should certainly come to be hanged at last .
the impression this made on me was too strong to be slighted , and it kept me from making attempts that , for ought i knew , might have been very safely performed ; but one thing i cannot omit , which was a bait to me many a day .
i walked frequently out into the villages round the town , to see if nothing would fall in my way there ; and going by a house near stepney , i saw on the window-board two rings , one a small diamond ring , and the other a gold ring , to be sure laid there by some thoughtless lady , that had more money then forecast , perhaps only till she washed her hands .
i walked several times by the window to observe if i could see whether there was anybody in the room or no , and i could see nobody , but still i was not sure . it came presently into my thoughts to rap at the glass , as if i wanted to speak with somebody , and if anybody was there they would be sure to come to the window , and then i would tell them to remove those rings , for that i had seen two suspicious fellows take notice of them .
this was a ready thought . i rapped once or twice and nobody came , when , seeing the coast clear , i thrust hard against the square of the glass , and broke it with very little noise , and took out the two rings , and walked away with them very safe .
the diamond ring was worth about # 3 , and the other about 9s . i was now at a loss for a market for my goods , and especially for my two pieces of silk .
i was very loth to dispose of them for a trifle , as the poor unhappy thieves in general do , who , after they have ventured their lives for perhaps a thing of value , are fain to sell it for a song when they have done ; but i was resolved i would not do thus , whatever shift i made , unless i was driven to the last extremity . however , i did not well know what course to take .
at last i resolved to go to my old governess , and acquaint myself with her again .
i had punctually supplied the # 5 a year to her for my little boy as long as i was able , but at last was obliged to put a stop to it .
however , i had written a letter to her , wherein i had told her that my circumstances were reduced very low ; that i had lost my husband , and that i was not able to do it any longer , and so begged that the poor child might not suffer too much for its mother 's misfortunes .
i now made her a visit , and i found that she drove something of the old trade still , but that she was not in such flourishing circumstances as before ; for she had been sued by a certain gentleman who had had his daughter stolen from him , and who , it seems , she had helped to convey away ; and it was very narrowly that she escaped the gallows .
the expense also had ravaged her , and she was become very poor ; her house was but meanly furnished , and she was not in such repute for her practice as before ; however , she stood upon her legs , as they say , and a she was a stirring , bustling woman , and had some stock left , she was turned pawnbroker , and lived pretty well .
she received me very civilly , and with her usual obliging manner told me she would not have the less respect for me for my being reduced ; that she had taken care my boy was very well looked after , though i could not pay for him , and that the woman that had him was easy , so that i needed not to trouble myself about him till i might be better able to do it effectually .
i told her that i had not much money left , but that i had some things that were money 's worth , if she could tell me how i might turn them into money .
she asked me what it was i had .
i pulled out the string of gold beads , and told her it was one of my husband 's presents to me ; then i showed her the two parcels of silk , which i told her i had from ireland , and brought up to town with me ; and the little diamond ring .
as to the small parcel of plate and spoons , i had found means to dispose of them myself before ; and as for the childbed-linen i had , she offered me to take it herself , believing it to have been my own .
she told me that she was turned pawnbroker , and that she would sell those things for me as pawn to her ; and so she sent presently for proper agents that bought them , being in her hands , without any scruple , and gave good prices too .
i now began to think this necessary woman might help me a little in my low condition to some business , for i would gladly have turned my hand to any honest employment if i could have got it . but here she was deficient ; honest business did not come within her reach .
if i had been younger , perhaps she might have helped me to a spark , but my thoughts were off that kind of livelihood , as being quite out of the way after fifty , which was my case , and so i told her .
she invited me at last to come , and be at her house till i could find something to do , and it should cost me very little , and this i gladly accepted of . and now living a little easier , i entered into some measures to have my little son by my last husband taken off ; and this she made easy too , reserving a payment only of # 5 a year , if i could pay it .
this was such a help to me , that for a good while i left off the wicked trade that i had so newly taken up ; and gladly i would have got my bread by the help of my needle if i could have got work , but that was very hard to do for one that had no manner of acquaintance in the world .
however , at last i got some quilting work for ladies ' beds , petticoats , and the like ; and this i liked very well , and worked very hard , and with this i began to live ; but the diligent devil , who resolved i should continue in his service , continually prompted me to go out and take a walk , that is to say , to see if anything would offer in the old way .
one evening i blindly obeyed his summons , and fetched a long circuit through the streets , but met with no purchase , and came home very weary and empty ; but not content with that , i went out the next evening too , when going by an alehouse i saw the door of a little room open , next the very street , and on the table a silver tankard , things much in use in public-houses at that time .
it seems some company had been drinking there , and the careless boys had forgot to take it away .
i went into the box frankly , and setting the silver tankard on the corner of the bench , i sat down before it , and knocked with my foot ; a boy came presently , and i bade him fetch me a pint of warm ale , for it was cold weather ; the boy ran , and i heard him go down the cellar to draw the ale .
while the boy was gone , another boy came into the room , and cried , ' d ' ye call ? '
i spoke with a melancholy air , and said , ' no , child ; the boy is gone for a pint of ale for me . '
while i sat here , i heard the woman in the bar say , ' are they all gone in the five ? ' which was the box i sat in , and the boy said , ' yes . '
'who fetched the tankard away ? ' says the woman .
'i did , ' says another boy ; ' that 's it , ' pointing , it seems , to another tankard , which he had fetched from another box by mistake ; or else it must be , that the rogue forgot that he had not brought it in , which certainly he had not .
i heard all this , much to my satisfaction , for i found plainly that the tankard was not missed , and yet they concluded it was fetched away ; so i drank my ale , called to pay , and as i went away i said , ' take care of your plate , child , ' meaning a silver pint mug , which he brought me drink in .
the boy said , ' yes , madam , very welcome , ' and away i came .
i came home to my governess , and now i thought it was a time to try her , that if i might be put to the necessity of being exposed , she might offer me some assistance .
when i had been at home some time , and had an opportunity of talking to her , i told her i had a secret of the greatest consequence in the world to commit to her , if she had respect enough for me to keep it a secret .
she told me she had kept one of my secrets faithfully ; why should i doubt her keeping another ?
i told her the strangest thing in the world had befallen me , and that it had made a thief of me , even without any design , and so told her the whole story of the tankard .
'and have you brought it away with you , my dear ? ' says she .
'to be sure i have , ' says i , and showed it her .
'but what shall i do now , ' says i ; ' must not carry it again ? '
'carry it again ! ' says she .
'ay , if you are minded to be sent to newgate for stealing it . '
'why , ' says i , ' they can 't be so base to stop me , when i carry it to them again ? '
'you don 't know those sort of people , child , ' says she ; ' they 'll not only carry you to newgate , but hang you too , without any regard to the honesty of returning it ; or bring in an account of all the other tankards they have lost , for you to pay for . '
'what must i do , then ? ' says i .
'nay , ' says she , ' as you have played the cunning part and stole it , you must e 'en keep it ; there 's no going back now .
besides , child , ' says she , ' don 't you want it more than they do ?
i wish you could light of such a bargain once a week . '
this gave me a new notion of my governess , and that since she was turned pawnbroker , she had a sort of people about her that were none of the honest ones that i had met with there before .
i had not been long there but i discovered it more plainly than before , for every now and then i saw hilts of swords , spoons , forks , tankards , and all such kind of ware brought in , not to be pawned , but to be sold downright ; and she bought everything that came without asking any questions , but had very good bargains , as i found by her discourse .
i found also that in following this trade she always melted down the plate she bought , that it might not be challenged ; and she came to me and told me one morning that she was going to melt , and if i would , she would put my tankard in , that it might not be seen by anybody .
i told her , with all my heart ; so she weighed it , and allowed me the full value in silver again ; but i found she did not do the same to the rest of her customers .
some time after this , as i was at work , and very melancholy , she begins to ask me what the matter was , as she was used to do .
i told her my heart was heavy ; i had little work , and nothing to live on , and knew not what course to take .
she laughed , and told me i must go out again and try my fortune ; it might be that i might meet with another piece of plate .
'o mother ! ' says i , ' that is a trade i have no skill in , and if i should be taken i am undone at once . '
says she , ' i could help you to a schoolmistress that shall make you as dexterous as herself . '
i trembled at that proposal , for hitherto i had had no confederates , nor any acquaintance among that tribe .
but she conquered all my modesty , and all my fears ; and in a little time , by the help of this confederate , i grew as impudent a thief , and as dexterous as ever moll cutpurse was , though , if fame does not belie her , not half so handsome .
the comrade she helped me to dealt in three sorts of craft , viz. shoplifting , stealing of shop-books and pocket-books , and taking off gold watches from the ladies ' sides ; and this last she did so dexterously that no woman ever arrived to the performance of that art so as to do it like her . i liked the first and the last of these things very well , and i attended her some time in the practice , just as a deputy attends a midwife , without any pay .
at length she put me to practice .
she had shown me her art , and i had several times unhooked a watch from her own side with great dexterity . at last she showed me a prize , and this was a young lady big with child , who had a charming watch .
the thing was to be done as she came out of church . she goes on one side of the lady , and pretends , just as she came to the steps , to fall , and fell against the lady with so much violence as put her into a great fright , and both cried out terribly . in the very moment that she jostled the lady , i had hold of the watch , and holding it the right way , the start she gave drew the hook out , and she never felt it . i made off immediately , and left my schoolmistress to come out of her pretended fright gradually , and the lady too ; and presently the watch was missed .
'ay , ' says my comrade , ' then it was those rogues that thrust me down , i warrant ye ; i wonder the gentlewoman did not miss her watch before , then we might have taken them . '
she humoured the thing so well that nobody suspected her , and i was got home a full hour before her .
this was my first adventure in company . the watch was indeed a very fine one , and had a great many trinkets about it , and my governess allowed us # 20 for it , of which i had half .
and thus i was entered a complete thief , hardened to the pitch above all the reflections of conscience or modesty , and to a degree which i must acknowledge i never thought possible in me .
thus the devil , who began , by the help of an irresistible poverty , to push me into this wickedness , brought me on to a height beyond the common rate , even when my necessities were not so great , or the prospect of my misery so terrifying ; for i had now got into a little vein of work , and as i was not at a loss to handle my needle , it was very probable , as acquaintance came in , i might have got my bread honestly enough .
i must say , that if such a prospect of work had presented itself at first , when i began to feel the approach of my miserable circumstances--i say , had such a prospect of getting my bread by working presented itself then , i had never fallen into this wicked trade , or into such a wicked gang as i was now embarked with ; but practice had hardened me , and i grew audacious to the last degree ; and the more so because i had carried it on so long , and had never been taken ; for , in a word , my new partner in wickedness and i went on together so long , without being ever detected , that we not only grew bold , but we grew rich , and we had at one time one-and-twenty gold watches in our hands .
i remember that one day being a little more serious than ordinary , and finding i had so good a stock beforehand as i had , for i had near # 200 in money for my share , it came strongly into my mind , no doubt from some kind spirit , if such there be , that at first poverty excited me , and my distresses drove me to these dreadful shifts ; so seeing those distresses were now relieved , and i could also get something towards a maintenance by working , and had so good a bank to support me , why should i now not leave off , as they say , while i was well ? that i could not expect to go always free ; and if i was once surprised , and miscarried , i was undone .
this was doubtless the happy minute , when , if i had hearkened to the blessed hint , from whatsoever had it came , i had still a cast for an easy life .
but my fate was otherwise determined ; the busy devil that so industriously drew me in had too fast hold of me to let me go back ; but as poverty brought me into the mire , so avarice kept me in , till there was no going back .
as to the arguments which my reason dictated for persuading me to lay down , avarice stepped in and said , ' go on , go on ; you have had very good luck ; go on till you have gotten four or five hundred pounds , and they you shall leave off , and then you may live easy without working at all . '
thus i , that was once in the devil 's clutches , was held fast there as with a charm , and had no power to go without the circle , till i was engulfed in labyrinths of trouble too great to get out at all .
however , these thoughts left some impression upon me , and made me act with some more caution than before , and more than my directors used for themselves .
my comrade , as i called her , but rather she should have been called my teacher , with another of her scholars , was the first in the misfortune ; for , happening to be upon the hunt for purchase , they made an attempt upon a linen-draper in cheapside , but were snapped by a hawk 's-eyed journeyman , and seized with two pieces of cambric , which were taken also upon them .
this was enough to lodge them both in newgate , where they had the misfortune to have some of their former sins brought to remembrance . two other indictments being brought against them , and the facts being proved upon them , they were both condemned to die . they both pleaded their bellies , and were both voted quick with child ; though my tutoress was no more with child than i was .
i went frequently to see them , and condole with them , expecting that it would be my turn next ; but the place gave me so much horror , reflecting that it was the place of my unhappy birth , and of my mother 's misfortunes , and that i could not bear it , so i was forced to leave off going to see them .
and oh ! could i have but taken warning by their disasters , i had been happy still , for i was yet free , and had nothing brought against me ; but it could not be , my measure was not yet filled up .
my comrade , having the brand of an old offender , was executed ; the young offender was spared , having obtained a reprieve , but lay starving a long while in prison , till at last she got her name into what they call a circuit pardon , and so came off .
this terrible example of my comrade frighted me heartily , and for a good while i made no excursions ; but one night , in the neighbourhood of my governess 's house , they cried ' fire . '
my governess looked out , for we were all up , and cried immediately that such a gentlewoman 's house was all of a light fire atop , and so indeed it was .
here she gives me a job .
'now , child , ' says she , ' there is a rare opportunity , for the fire being so near that you may go to it before the street is blocked up with the crowd . '
she presently gave me my cue .
'go , child , ' says she , ' to the house , and run in and tell the lady , or anybody you see , that you come to help them , and that you came from such a gentlewoman ( that is , one of her acquaintance farther up the street )  . '
she gave me the like cue to the next house , naming another name that was also an acquaintance of the gentlewoman of the house . away i went , and , coming to the house , i found them all in confusion , you may be sure .
i ran in , and finding one of the maids , ' lord ! sweetheart , ' says i , ' how came this dismal accident ?
where is your mistress ?
any how does she do ? is she safe ?
and where are the children ?
i come from madam ---- to help you . '
away runs the maid .
'madam , madam , ' says she , screaming as loud as she could yell , ' here is a gentlewoman come from madam ---- to help us . '
the poor woman , half out of her wits , with a bundle under her arm , an two little children , comes toward me .
'lord ! madam , ' says i , ' let me carry the poor children to madam ---- , ' she desires you to send them ; she 'll take care of the poor lambs ; ' and immediately i takes one of them out of her hand , and she lifts the other up into my arms .
'ay , do , for god 's sake , ' says she , ' carry them to her .
oh ! thank her for her kindness . '
'have you anything else to secure , madam ? ' says i ; ' she will take care of it . '
'oh dear ! ay , ' says she , ' god bless her , and thank her .
take this bundle of plate and carry it to her too .
oh , she is a good woman .
oh lord ! we are utterly ruined , utterly undone ! '
and away she runs from me out of her wits , and the maids after her ; and away comes i with the two children and the bundle .
i was no sooner got into the street but i saw another woman come to me .
'oh ! ' says she , ' mistress , ' in a piteous tone , ' you will let fall the child .
come , this is a sad time ; let me help you ' ; and immediately lays hold of my bundle to carry it for me .
'no , ' says i ; ' if you will help me , take the child by the hand , and lead it for me but to the upper end of the street ; i 'll go with you and satisfy you for your pains . '
she could not avoid going , after what i said ; but the creature , in short , was one of the same business with me , and wanted nothing but the bundle ; however , she went with me to the door , for she could not help it .
when we were come there i whispered her , ' go , child , ' said i , ' i understand your trade ; you may meet with purchase enough . '
she understood me and walked off .
i thundered at the door with the children , and as the people were raised before by the noise of the fire , i was soon let in , and i said , ' is madam awake ?
pray tell her mrs. ---- desires the favour of her to take the two children in ; poor lady , she will be undone , their house is all of a flame , '
they took the children in very civilly , pitied the family in distress , and away came i with my bundle .
one of the maids asked me if i was not to leave the bundle too .
i said , ' no , sweetheart , ' tis to go to another place ; it does not belong to them . '
i was a great way out of the hurry now , and so i went on , clear of anybody 's inquiry , and brought the bundle of plate , which was very considerable , straight home , and gave it to my old governess . she told me she would not look into it , but bade me go out again to look for more .
she gave me the like cue to the gentlewoman of the next house to that which was on fire , and i did my endeavour to go , but by this time the alarm of fire was so great , and so many engines playing , and the street so thronged with people , that i could not get near the house whatever i would do ; so i came back again to my governess 's , and taking the bundle up into my chamber , i began to examine it .
it is with horror that i tell what a treasure i found there ; ' tis enough to say , that besides most of the family plate , which was considerable , i found a gold chain , an old-fashioned thing , the locket of which was broken , so that i suppose it had not been used some years , but the gold was not the worse for that ; also a little box of burying-rings , the lady 's wedding-ring , and some broken bits of old lockets of gold , a gold watch , and a purse with about # 24 value in old pieces of gold coin , and several other things of value .
this was the greatest and the worst prize that ever i was concerned in ; for indeed , though , as i have said above , i was hardened now beyond the power of all reflection in other cases , yet it really touched me to the very soul when i looked into this treasure , to think of the poor disconsolate gentlewoman who had lost so much by the fire besides ; and who would think , to be sure , that she had saved her plate and best things ; how she would be surprised and afflicted when she should find that she had been deceived , and should find that the person that took her children and her goods , had not come , as was pretended , from the gentlewoman in the next street , but that the children had been put upon her without her own knowledge .
i say , i confess the inhumanity of this action moved me very much , and made me relent exceedingly , and tears stood in my eyes upon that subject ; but with all my sense of its being cruel and inhuman , i could never find in my heart to make any restitution .
the reflection wore off , and i began quickly to forget the circumstances that attended the taking them .
nor was this all ; for though by this job i was become considerably richer than before , yet the resolution i had formerly taken , of leaving off this horrid trade when i had gotten a little more , did not return , but i must still get farther , and more ; and the avarice joined so with the success , that i had no more thought of coming to a timely alteration of life , though without it i could expect no safety , no tranquillity in the possession of what i had so wickedly gained ; but a little more , and a little more , was the case still .
at length , yielding to the importunities of my crime , i cast off all remorse and repentance , and all the reflections on that head turned to no more than this , that i might perhaps come to have one booty more that might complete my desires ; but though i certainly had that one booty , yet every hit looked towards another , and was so encouraging to me to go on with the trade , that i had no gust to the thought of laying it down .
in this condition , hardened by success , and resolving to go on , i fell into the snare in which i was appointed to meet with my last reward for this kind of life .
but even this was not yet , for i met with several successful adventures more in this way of being undone .
i remained still with my governess , who was for a while really concerned for the misfortune of my comrade that had been hanged , and who , it seems , knew enough of my governess to have sent her the same way , and which made her very uneasy ; indeed , she was in a very great fright .
it is true that when she was gone , and had not opened mouth to tell what she knew , my governess was easy as to that point , and perhaps glad she was hanged , for it was in her power to have obtained a pardon at the expense of her friends ; but on the other hand , the loss of her , and the sense of her kindness in not making her market of what she knew , moved my governess to mourn very sincerely for her .
i comforted her as well as i could , and she in return hardened me to merit more completely the same fate .
however , as i have said , it made me the more wary , and particularly i was very shy of shoplifting , especially among the mercers and drapers , who are a set of fellows that have their eyes very much about them .
i made a venture or two among the lace folks and the milliners , and particularly at one shop where i got notice of two young women who were newly set up , and had not been bred to the trade . there i think i carried off a piece of bone-lace , worth six or seven pounds , and a paper of thread .
but this was but once ; it was a trick that would not serve again . it was always reckoned a safe job when we heard of a new shop , and especially when the people were such as were not bred to shops . such may depend upon it that they will be visited once or twice at their beginning , and they must be very sharp indeed if they can prevent it .
i made another adventure or two , but they were but trifles too , though sufficient to live on .
after this nothing considerable offering for a good while , i began to think that i must give over the trade in earnest ; but my governess , who was not willing to lose me , and expected great things of me , brought me one day into company with a young woman and a fellow that went for her husband , though as it appeared afterwards , she was not his wife , but they were partners , it seems , in the trade they carried on , and partners in something else .
in short , they robbed together , lay together , were taken together , and at last were hanged together .
i came into a kind of league with these two by the help of my governess , and they carried me out into three or four adventures , where i rather saw them commit some coarse and unhandy robberies , in which nothing but a great stock of impudence on their side , and gross negligence on the people 's side who were robbed , could have made them successful . so i resolved from that time forward to be very cautious how i adventured upon anything with them ; and indeed , when two or three unlucky projects were proposed by them , i declined the offer , and persuaded them against it .
one time they particularly proposed robbing a watchmaker of three gold watches , which they had eyed in the daytime , and found the place where he laid them . one of them had so many keys of all kinds , that he made no question to open the place where the watchmaker had laid them ; and so we made a kind of an appointment ; but when i came to look narrowly into the thing , i found they proposed breaking open the house , and this , as a thing out of my way , i would not embark in , so they went without me .
they did get into the house by main force , and broke up the locked place where the watches were , but found but one of the gold watches , and a silver one , which they took , and got out of the house again very clear . but the family , being alarmed , cried out ' thieves , ' and the man was pursued and taken ; the young woman had got off too , but unhappily was stopped at a distance , and the watches found upon her . and thus i had a second escape , for they were convicted , and both hanged , being old offenders , though but young people .
as i said before that they robbed together and lay together , so now they hanged together , and there ended my new partnership . i began now to be very wary , having so narrowly escaped a scouring , and having such an example before me ; but i had a new tempter , who prompted me every day--i mean my governess ; and now a prize presented , which as it came by her management , so she expected a good share of the booty .
there was a good quantity of flanders lace lodged in a private house , where she had gotten intelligence of it , and flanders lace being prohibited , it was a good booty to any custom-house officer that could come at it .
i had a full account from my governess , as well of the quantity as of the very place where it was concealed , and i went to a custom-house officer , and told him i had such a discovery to make to him of such a quantity of lace , if he would assure me that i should have my due share of the reward .
this was so just an offer , that nothing could be fairer ; so he agreed , and taking a constable and me with him , we beset the house .
as i told him i could go directly to the place , he left it to me ; and the hole being very dark , i squeezed myself into it , with a candle in my hand , and so reached the pieces out to him , taking care as i gave him some so to secure as much about myself as i could conveniently dispose of .
there was near # 300 worth of lace in the hole , and i secured about # 50 worth of it to myself .
the people of the house were not owners of the lace , but a merchant who had entrusted them with it ; so that they were not so surprised as i thought they would be .
i left the officer overjoyed with his prize , and fully satisfied with what he had got , and appointed to meet him at a house of his own directing , where i came after i had disposed of the cargo i had about me , of which he had not the least suspicion .
when i came to him he began to capitulate with me , believing i did not understand the right i had to a share in the prize , and would fain have put me off with # 20 , but i let him know that i was not so ignorant as he supposed i was ; and yet i was glad , too , that he offered to bring me to a certainty .
i asked # 100 , and he rose up to # 30 ; i fell to # 80 , and he rose again to # 40 ; in a word , he offered # 50 , and i consented , only demanding a piece of lace , which i though came to about # 8 or # 9 , as if it had been for my own wear , and he agreed to it .
so i got # 50 in money paid me that same night , and made an end of the bargain ; nor did he ever know who i was , or where to inquire for me , so that if it had been discovered that part of the goods were embezzled , he could have made no challenge upon me for it .
i very punctually divided this spoil with my governess , and i passed with her from this time for a very dexterous manager in the nicest cases .
i found that this last was the best and easiest sort of work that was in my way , and i made it my business to inquire out prohibited goods , and after buying some , usually betrayed them , but none of these discoveries amounted to anything considerable , not like that i related just now ; but i was willing to act safe , and was still cautious of running the great risks which i found others did , and in which they miscarried every day .
the next thing of moment was an attempt at a gentlewoman 's good watch .
it happened in a crowd , at a meeting-house , where i was in very great danger of being taken . i had full hold of her watch , but giving a great jostle , as if somebody had thrust me against her , and in the juncture giving the watch a fair pull , i found it would not come , so i let it go that moment , and cried out as if i had been killed , that somebody had trod upon my foot , and that there were certainly pickpockets there , for somebody or other had given a pull at my watch ; for you are to observe that on these adventures we always went very well dressed , and i had very good clothes on , and a gold watch by my side , as like a lady as other fold .
i had no sooner said so , but the other gentlewoman cried out ' a pickpocket ' too , for somebody , she said , had tried to pull her watch away .
when i touched her watch i was close to her , but when i cried out i stopped as it were short , and the crowd bearing her forward a little , she made a noise too , but it was at some distance from me , so that she did not in the least suspect me ; but when she cried out ' a pickpocket , ' somebody cried , ' ay , and here has been another ! this gentlewoman has been attempted too . '
at that very instance , a little farther in the crowd , and very luckily too , they cried out ' a pickpocket , ' again , and really seized a young fellow in the very act .
this , though unhappy for the wretch , was very opportunely for my case , though i had carried it off handsomely enough before ; but now it was out of doubt , and all the loose part of the crowd ran that way , and the poor boy was delivered up to the rage of the street , which is a cruelty i need not describe , and which , however , they are always glad of , rather than to be sent to newgate , where they lie often a long time , till they are almost perished , and sometimes they are hanged , and the best they can look for , if they are convicted , is to be transported .
this was a narrow escape to me , and i was so frighted that i ventured no more at gold watches a great while .
here she set up the same trade she had followed in ireland , in which she soon , by her admirable management and good tongue , arrived to the height which i have already described , and indeed began to be rich , though her trade fell off again afterwards , as i have hinted before . i mentioned thus much of the history of this woman here , the better to account for the concern she had in the wicked life i was now leading , into all the particulars of which she led me , as it were , by the hand , and gave me such directions , and i so well followed them , that i grew the greatest artist of my time and worked myself out of every danger with such dexterity , that when several more of my comrades ran themselves into newgate presently , and by that time they had been half a year at the trade , i had now practised upwards of five years , and the people at newgate did not so much as know me ; they had heard much of me indeed , and often expected me there , but i always got off , though many times in the extremest danger .
one of the greatest dangers i was now in , was that i was too well known among the trade , and some of them , whose hatred was owing rather to envy than any injury i had done them , began to be angry that i should always escape when they were always catched and hurried to newgate .
these were they that gave me the name of moll flanders ; for it was no more of affinity with my real name or with any of the name i had ever gone by , than black is of kin to white , except that once , as before , i called myself mrs. flanders ; when i sheltered myself in the mint ; but that these rogues never knew , nor could i ever learn how they came to give me the name , or what the occasion of it was .
i was soon informed that some of these who were gotten fast into newgate had vowed to impeach me ; and as i knew that two or three of them were but too able to do it , i was under a great concern about it , and kept within doors for a good while . but my governess--whom i always made partner in my success , and who now played a sure game with me , for that she had a share of the gain and no share in the hazard--i say , my governess was something impatient of my leading such a useless , unprofitable life , as she called it ; and she laid a new contrivance for my going abroad , and this was to dress me up in men 's clothes , and so put me into a new kind of practice .
i was tall and personable , but a little too smooth-faced for a man ; however , i seldom went abroad but in the night , it did well enough ; but it was a long time before i could behave in my new clothes--i mean , as to my craft . it was impossible to be so nimble , so ready , so dexterous at these things in a dress so contrary to nature ; and i did everything clumsily , so i had neither the success nor the easiness of escape that i had before , and i resolved to leave it off ; but that resolution was confirmed soon after by the following accident .
as my governess disguised me like a man , so she joined me with a man , a young fellow that was nimble enough at his business , and for about three weeks we did very well together .
our principal trade was watching shopkeepers ' counters , and slipping off any kind of goods we could see carelessly laid anywhere , and we made several good bargains , as we called them , at this work .
and as we kept always together , so we grew very intimate , yet he never knew that i was not a man , nay , though i several times went home with him to his lodgings , according as our business directed , and four or five times lay with him all night . but our design lay another way , and it was absolutely necessary to me to conceal my sex from him , as appeared afterwards .
the circumstances of our living , coming in late , and having such and such business to do as required that nobody should be trusted with the coming into our lodgings , were such as made it impossible to me to refuse lying with him , unless i would have owned my sex ; and as it was , i effectually concealed myself .
but his ill , and my good fortune , soon put an end to this life , which i must own i was sick of too , on several other accounts .
we had made several prizes in this new way of business , but the last would be extraordinary .
there was a shop in a certain street which had a warehouse behind it that looked into another street , the house making the corner of the turning .
through the window of the warehouse we saw , lying on the counter or showboard , which was just before it , five pieces of silks , besides other stuffs , and though it was almost dark , yet the people , being busy in the fore-shop with customers , had not had time to shut up those windows , or else had forgot it . this the young fellow was so overjoyed with , that he could not restrain himself .
it lay all within his reach he said , and he swore violently to me that he would have it , if he broke down the house for it . i dissuaded him a little , but saw there was no remedy ; so he ran rashly upon it , slipped out a square of the sash window dexterously enough , and without noise , and got out four pieces of the silks , and came with them towards me , but was immediately pursued with a terrible clutter and noise . we were standing together indeed , but i had not taken any of the goods out of his hand , when i said to him hastily , ' you are undone , fly , for god 's sake ! '
he ran like lightning , and i too , but the pursuit was hotter after him because he had the goods , than after me .
he dropped two of the pieces , which stopped them a little , but the crowd increased and pursued us both . they took him soon after with the other two pieces upon him , and then the rest followed me .
i ran for it and got into my governess 's house whither some quick-eyed people followed me to warmly as to fix me there . they did not immediately knock , at the door , by which i got time to throw off my disguise and dress me in my own clothes ; besides , when they came there , my governess , who had her tale ready , kept her door shut , and called out to them and told them there was no man come in there .
the people affirmed there did a man come in there , and swore they would break open the door . my governess , not at all surprised , spoke calmly to them , told them they should very freely come and search her house , if they should bring a constable , and let in none but such as the constable would admit , for it was unreasonable to let in a whole crowd .
this they could not refuse , though they were a crowd . so a constable was fetched immediately , and she very freely opened the door ; the constable kept the door , and the men he appointed searched the house , my governess going with them from room to room .
when she came to my room she called to me , and said aloud , ' cousin , pray open the door ; here 's some gentlemen that must come and look into your room . '
i had a little girl with me , which was my governess 's grandchild , as she called her ; and i bade her open the door , and there sat i at work with a great litter of things about me , as if i had been at work all day , being myself quite undressed , with only night-clothes on my head , and a loose morning-gown wrapped about me .
my governess made a kind of excuse for their disturbing me , telling me partly the occasion of it , and that she had no remedy but to open the doors to them , and let them satisfy themselves , for all she could say to them would not satisfy them .
i sat still , and bid them search the room if they pleased , for if there was anybody in the house , i was sure they were not in my room ; and as for the rest of the house , i had nothing to say to that , i did not understand what they looked for .
everything looked so innocent and to honest about me , that they treated me civiller than i expected , but it was not till they had searched the room to a nicety , even under the bed , in the bed , and everywhere else where it was possible anything could be hid . when they had done this , and could find nothing , they asked my pardon for troubling me , and went down .
when they had thus searched the house from bottom to top , and then top to bottom , and could find nothing , they appeased the mob pretty well ; but they carried my governess before the justice . two men swore that they saw the man whom they pursued go into her house . my governess rattled and made a great noise that her house should be insulted , and that she should be used thus for nothing ; that if a man did come in , he might go out again presently for aught she knew , for she was ready to make oath that no man had been within her doors all that day as she knew of ( and that was very true indeed ) ; that is might be indeed that as she was abovestairs , any fellow in a fright might find the door open and run in for shelter when he was pursued , but that she knew nothing of it ; and if it had been so , he certainly went out again , perhaps at the other door , for she had another door into an alley , and so had made his escape and cheated them all .
this was indeed probable enough , and the justice satisfied himself with giving her an oath that she had not received or admitted any man into her house to conceal him , or protect or hide him from justice . this oath she might justly take , and did so , and so she was dismissed .
it is easy to judge what a fright i was in upon this occasion , and it was impossible for my governess ever to bring me to dress in that disguise again ; for , as i told her , i should certainly betray myself .
my poor partner in this mischief was now in a bad case , for he was carried away before my lord mayor , and by his worship committed to newgate , and the people that took him were so willing , as well as able , to prosecute him , that they offered themselves to enter into recognisances to appear at the sessions and pursue the charge against him .
however , he got his indictment deferred , upon promise to discover his accomplices , and particularly the man that was concerned with him in his robbery ; and he failed not to do his endeavour , for he gave in my name , whom he called gabriel spencer , which was the name i went by to him ; and here appeared the wisdom of my concealing my name and sex from him , which , if he had ever known i had been undone .
he did all he could to discover this gabriel spencer ; he described me , he discovered the place where he said i lodged , and , in a word , all the particulars that he could of my dwelling ; but having concealed the main circumstances of my sex from him , i had a vast advantage , and he never could hear of me . he brought two or three families into trouble by his endeavouring to find me out , but they knew nothing of me , any more than that i had a fellow with me that they had seen , but knew nothing of . and as for my governess , though she was the means of his coming to me , yet it was done at second-hand , and he knew nothing of her .
this turned to his disadvantage ; for having promised discoveries , but not being able to make it good , it was looked upon as trifling with the justice of the city , and he was the more fiercely pursued by the shopkeepers who took him .
i was , however , terribly uneasy all this while , and that i might be quite out of the way , i went away from my governess 's for a while ; but not knowing wither to wander , i took a maid-servant with me , and took the stage-coach to dunstable , to my old landlord and landlady , where i had lived so handsomely with my lancashire husband . here i told her a formal story , that i expected my husband every day from ireland , and that i had sent a letter to him that i would meet him at dunstable at her house , and that he would certainly land , if the wind was fair , in a few days , so that i was come to spend a few days with them till he should come , for he was either come post , or in the west chester coach , i knew not which ; but whichsoever it was , he would be sure to come to that house to meet me .
my landlady was mighty glad to see me , and my landlord made such a stir with me , that if i had been a princess i could not have been better used , and here i might have been welcome a month or two if i had thought fit .
but my business was of another nature . i was very uneasy ( though so well disguised that it was scarce possible to detect me ) lest this fellow should somehow or other find me out ; and though he could not charge me with this robbery , having persuaded him not to venture , and having also done nothing in it myself but run away , yet he might have charged me with other things , and have bought his own life at the expense of mine .
this filled me with horrible apprehensions . i had no recourse , no friend , no confidante but my old governess , and i knew no remedy but to put my life in her hands , and so i did , for i let her know where to send to me , and had several letters from her while i stayed here .
some of them almost scared me out my wits but at last she sent me the joyful news that he was hanged , which was the best news to me that i had heard a great while .
i had stayed here five weeks , and lived very comfortably indeed ( the secret anxiety of my mind excepted ) ; but when i received this letter i looked pleasantly again , and told my landlady that i had received a letter from my spouse in ireland , that i had the good news of his being very well , but had the bad news that his business would not permit him to come away so soon as he expected , and so i was like to go back again without him .
my landlady complimented me upon the good news however , that i had heard he was well .
'for i have observed , madam , ' says she , ' you hadn 't been so pleasant as you used to be ; you have been over head and ears in care for him , i dare say , ' says the good woman ; " tis easy to be seen there 's an alteration in you for the better , ' says she .
'well , i am sorry the esquire can 't come yet , ' says my landlord ; ' i should have been heartily glad to have seen him . but i hope , when you have certain news of his coming , you 'll take a step hither again , madam , ' says he ; ' you shall be very welcome whenever you please to come . '
with all these fine compliments we parted , and i came merry enough to london , and found my governess as well pleased as i was .
and now she told me she would never recommend any partner to me again , for she always found , she said , that i had the best luck when i ventured by myself .
and so indeed i had , for i was seldom in any danger when i was by myself , or if i was , i got out of it with more dexterity than when i was entangled with the dull measures of other people , who had perhaps less forecast , and were more rash and impatient than i ; for though i had as much courage to venture as any of them , yet i used more caution before i undertook a thing , and had more presence of mind when i was to bring myself off .
i have often wondered even at my own hardiness another way , that when all my companions were surprised and fell so suddenly into the hand of justice , and that i so narrowly escaped , yet i could not all this while enter into one serious resolution to leave off this trade , and especially considering that i was now very far from being poor ; that the temptation of necessity , which is generally the introduction of all such wickedness , was now removed ; for i had near # 500 by me in ready money , on which i might have lived very well , if i had thought fit to have retired ; but i say , i had not so much as the least inclination to leave off ; no , not so much as i had before when i had but # 200 beforehand , and when i had no such frightful examples before my eyes as these were . from hence ' tis evident to me , that when once we are hardened in crime , no fear can affect us , no example give us any warning .
i had indeed one comrade whose fate went very near me for a good while , though i wore it off too in time .
that case was indeed very unhappy .
i had made a prize of a piece of very good damask in a mercer 's shop , and went clear off myself , but had conveyed the piece to this companion of mine when we went out of the shop , and she went one way and i went another .
we had not been long out of the shop but the mercer missed his piece of stuff , and sent his messengers , one one way and one another , and they presently seized her that had the piece , with the damask upon her . as for me , i had very luckily stepped into a house where there was a lace chamber , up one pair of stairs , and had the satisfaction , or the terror indeed , of looking out of the window upon the noise they made , and seeing the poor creature dragged away in triumph to the justice , who immediately committed her to newgate .
i was careful to attempt nothing in the lace chamber , but tumbled their goods pretty much to spend time ; then bought a few yards of edging and paid for it , and came away very sad-hearted indeed for the poor woman , who was in tribulation for what i only had stolen .
here again my old caution stood me in good stead ; namely , that though i often robbed with these people , yet i never let them know who i was , or where i lodged , nor could they ever find out my lodging , though they often endeavoured to watch me to it .
they all knew me by the name of moll flanders , though even some of them rather believed i was she than knew me to be so . my name was public among them indeed , but how to find me out they knew not , nor so much as how to guess at my quarters , whether they were at the east end of the town or the west ; and this wariness was my safety upon all these occasions . i kept close a great while upon the occasion of this woman 's disaster .
i knew that if i should do anything that should miscarry , and should be carried to prison , she would be there and ready to witness against me , and perhaps save her life at my expense . i considered that i began to be very well known by name at the old bailey , though they did not know my face , and that if i should fall into their hands , i should be treated as an old offender ; and for this reason i was resolved to see what this poor creature 's fate should be before i stirred abroad , though several times in her distress i conveyed money to her for her relief .
at length she came to her trial .
she pleaded she did not steal the thing , but that one mrs. flanders , as she heard her called ( for she did not know her ) , gave the bundle to her after they came out of the shop , and bade her carry it home to her lodging .
they asked her where this mrs. flanders was , but she could not produce her , neither could she give the least account of me ; and the mercer 's men swearing positively that she was in the shop when the goods were stolen , that they immediately missed them , and pursued her , and found them upon her , thereupon the jury brought her in guilty ; but the court , considering that she was really not the person that stole the goods , an inferior assistant , and that it was very possible she could not find out this mrs. flanders , meaning me , though it would save her life , which indeed was true--i say , considering all this , they allowed her to be transported , which was the utmost favour she could obtain , only that the court told her that if she could in the meantime produce the said mrs. flanders , they would intercede for her pardon ; that is to say , if she could find me out , and hand me , she should not be transported .
this i took care to make impossible to her , and so she was shipped off in pursuance of her sentence a little while after .
i must repeat it again , that the fate of this poor woman troubled me exceedingly , and i began to be very pensive , knowing that i was really the instrument of her disaster ; but the preservation of my own life , which was so evidently in danger , took off all my tenderness ; and seeing that she was not put to death , i was very easy at her transportation , because she was then out of the way of doing me any mischief , whatever should happen .
the disaster of this woman was some months before that of the last-recited story , and was indeed partly occasion of my governess proposing to dress me up in men 's clothes , that i might go about unobserved , as indeed i did ; but i was soon tired of that disguise , as i have said , for indeed it exposed me to too many difficulties .
i was now easy as to all fear of witnesses against me , for all those that had either been concerned with me , or that knew me by the name of moll flanders , were either hanged or transported ; and if i should have had the misfortune to be taken , i might call myself anything else , as well as moll flanders , and no old sins could be placed into my account ; so i began to run a-tick again with the more freedom , and several successful adventures i made , though not such as i had made before .
we had at that time another fire happened not a great way off from the place where my governess lived , and i made an attempt there , as before , but as i was not soon enough before the crowd of people came in , and could not get to the house i aimed at , instead of a prize , i got a mischief , which had almost put a period to my life and all my wicked doings together ; for the fire being very furious , and the people in a great fright in removing their goods , and throwing them out of window , a wench from out of a window threw a feather-bed just upon me . it is true , the bed being soft , it broke no bones ; but as the weight was great , and made greater by the fall , it beat me down , and laid me dead for a while . nor did the people concern themselves much to deliver me from it , or to recover me at all ; but i lay like one dead and neglected a good while , till somebody going to remove the bed out of the way , helped me up . it was indeed a wonder the people in the house had not thrown other goods out after it , and which might have fallen upon it , and then i had been inevitably killed ; but i was reserved for further afflictions .
this accident , however , spoiled my market for that time , and i came home to my governess very much hurt and bruised , and frighted to the last degree , and it was a good while before she could set me upon my feet again .
it was now a merry time of the year , and bartholomew fair was begun . i had never made any walks that way , nor was the common part of the fair of much advantage to me ; but i took a turn this year into the cloisters , and among the rest i fell into one of the raffling shops .
it was a thing of no great consequence to me , nor did i expect to make much of it ; but there came a gentleman extremely well dressed and very rich , and as ' tis frequent to talk to everybody in those shops , he singled me out , and was very particular with me . first he told me he would put in for me to raffle , and did so ; and some small matter coming to his lot , he presented it to me ( i think it was a feather muff ) ; then he continued to keep talking to me with a more than common appearance of respect , but still very civil , and much like a gentleman .
he held me in talk so long , till at last he drew me out of the raffling place to the shop-door , and then to a walk in the cloister , still talking of a thousand things cursorily without anything to the purpose . at last he told me that , without compliment , he was charmed with my company , and asked me if i durst trust myself in a coach with him ; he told me he was a man of honour , and would not offer anything to me unbecoming him as such .
i seemed to decline it a while , but suffered myself to be importuned a little , and then yielded .
i was at a loss in my thoughts to conclude at first what this gentleman designed ; but i found afterwards he had had some drink in his head , and that he was not very unwilling to have some more .
he carried me in the coach to the spring garden , at knightsbridge , where we walked in the gardens , and he treated me very handsomely ; but i found he drank very freely . he pressed me also to drink , but i declined it .
hitherto he kept his word with me , and offered me nothing amiss . we came away in the coach again , and he brought me into the streets , and by this time it was near ten o 'clock at night , and he stopped the coach at a house where , it seems , he was acquainted , and where they made no scruple to show us upstairs into a room with a bed in it . at first i seemed to be unwilling to go up , but after a few words i yielded to that too , being willing to see the end of it , and in hope to make something of it at last . as for the bed , etc . , i was not much concerned about that part .
here he began to be a little freer with me than he had promised ; and i by little and little yielded to everything , so that , in a word , he did what he pleased with me ; i need say no more .
all this while he drank freely too , and about one in the morning we went into the coach again . the air and the shaking of the coach made the drink he had get more up in his head than it was before , and he grew uneasy in the coach , and was for acting over again what he had been doing before ; but as i thought my game now secure , i resisted him , and brought him to be a little still , which had not lasted five minutes but he fell fast asleep .
i took this opportunity to search him to a nicety . i took a gold watch , with a silk purse of gold , his fine full-bottom periwig and silver-fringed gloves , his sword and fine snuff-box , and gently opening the coach door , stood ready to jump out while the coach was going on ; but the coach stopped in the narrow street beyond temple bar to let another coach pass , i got softly out , fastened the door again , and gave my gentleman and the coach the slip both together , and never heard more of them .
this was an adventure indeed unlooked for , and perfectly undesigned by me ; though i was not so past the merry part of life , as to forget how to behave , when a fop so blinded by his appetite should not know an old woman from a young .
i did not indeed look so old as i was by ten or twelve years ; yet i was not a young wench of seventeen , and it was easy enough to be distinguished .
there is nothing so absurd , so surfeiting , so ridiculous , as a man heated by wine in his head , and wicked gust in his inclination together ; he is in the possession of two devils at once , and can no more govern himself by his reason than a mill can grind without water ; his vice tramples upon all that was in him that had any good in it , if any such thing there was ; nay , his very sense is blinded by its own rage , and he acts absurdities even in his views ; such a drinking more , when he is drunk already ; picking up a common woman , without regard to what she is or who she is , whether sound or rotten , clean or unclean , whether ugly or handsome , whether old or young , and so blinded as not really to distinguish .
such a man is worse than a lunatic ; prompted by his vicious , corrupted head , he no more knows what he is doing than this wretch of mine knew when i picked his pocket of his watch and his purse of gold .
these are the men of whom solomon says , ' they go like an ox to the slaughter , till a dart strikes through their liver ' ; an admirable description , by the way , of the foul disease , which is a poisonous deadly contagion mingling with the blood , whose centre or foundation is in the liver ; from whence , by the swift circulation of the whole mass , that dreadful nauseous plague strikes immediately through his liver , and his spirits are infected , his vitals stabbed through as with a dart .
it is true this poor unguarded wretch was in no danger from me , though i was greatly apprehensive at first of what danger i might be in from him ; but he was really to be pitied in one respect , that he seemed to be a good sort of man in himself ; a gentleman that had no harm in his design ; a man of sense , and of a fine behaviour , a comely handsome person , a sober solid countenance , a charming beautiful face , and everything that could be agreeable ; only had unhappily had some drink the night before , had not been in bed , as he told me when we were together ; was hot , and his blood fired with wine , and in that condition his reason , as it were asleep , had given him up .
as for me , my business was his money , and what i could make of him ; and after that , if i could have found out any way to have done it , i would have sent him safe home to his house and to his family , for ' twas ten to one but he had an honest , virtuous wife and innocent children , that were anxious for his safety , and would have been glad to have gotten him home , and have taken care of him till he was restored to himself .
and then with what shame and regret would he look back upon himself ! how would he reproach himself with associating himself with a whore ! picked up in the worst of all holes , the cloister , among the dirt and filth of all the town ! how would he be trembling for fear he had got the pox , for fear a dart had struck through his liver , and hate himself every time he looked back upon the madness and brutality of his debauch ! how would he , if he had any principles of honour , as i verily believe he had--i say , how would he abhor the thought of giving any ill distemper , if he had it , as for aught he knew he might , to his modest and virtuous wife , and thereby sowing the contagion in the life-blood of his posterity .
would such gentlemen but consider the contemptible thoughts which the very women they are concerned with , in such cases as these , have of them , it would be a surfeit to them .
as i said above , they value not the pleasure , they are raised by no inclination to the man , the passive jade thinks of no pleasure but the money ; and when he is , as it were , drunk in the ecstasies of his wicked pleasure , her hands are in his pockets searching for what she can find there , and of which he can no more be sensible in the moment of his folly that he can forethink of it when he goes about it .
i knew a woman that was so dexterous with a fellow , who indeed deserved no better usage , that while he was busy with her another way , conveyed his purse with twenty guineas in it out of his fob-pocket , where he had put it for fear of her , and put another purse with gilded counters in it into the room of it .
after he had done , he says to her , ' now han 't you picked my pocket ? '
she jested with him , and told him she supposed he had not much to lose ; he put his hand to his fob , and with his fingers felt that his purse was there , which fully satisfied him , and so she brought off his money .
and this was a trade with her ; she kept a sham gold watch , that is , a watch of silver gilt , and a purse of counters in her pocket to be ready on all such occasions , and i doubt not practiced it with success .
i came home with this last booty to my governess , and really when i told her the story , it so affected her that she was hardly able to forbear tears , to know how such a gentleman ran a daily risk of being undone every time a glass of wine got into his head .
but as to the purchase i got , and how entirely i stripped him , she told me it pleased her wonderfully .
'nay child , ' says she , ' the usage may , for aught i know , do more to reform him than all the sermons that ever he will hear in his life . '
and if the remainder of the story be true , so it did .
i found the next day she was wonderful inquisitive about this gentleman ; the description i had given her of him , his dress , his person , his face , everything concurred to make her think of a gentleman whose character she knew , and family too .
she mused a while , and i going still on with the particulars , she starts up ; says she , ' i 'll lay # 100 i know the gentleman . '
'i am sorry you do , ' says i , ' for i would not have him exposed on any account in the world ; he has had injury enough already by me , and i would not be instrumental to do him any more . '
'no , no , ' says she , ' i will do him no injury , i assure you , but you may let me satisfy my curiosity a little , for if it is he , i warrant you i find it out . '
i was a little startled at that , and told her , with an apparent concern in my face , that by the same rule he might find me out , and then i was undone .
she returned warmly , ' why , do you think i will betray you , child ?
no , no , ' says she , ' not for all he is worth in the world .
i have kept your counsel in worse things than these ; sure you may trust me in this . '
so i said no more at that time .
she laid her scheme another way , and without acquainting me of it , but she was resolved to find it out if possible . so she goes to a certain friend of hers who was acquainted in the family that she guessed at , and told her friend she had some extraordinary business with such a gentleman ( who , by the way , was no less than a baronet , and of a very good family ) , and that she knew not how to come at him without somebody to introduce her .
her friend promised her very readily to do it , and accordingly goes to the house to see if the gentleman was in town .
the next day she come to my governess and tells her that sir ---- was at home , but that he had met with a disaster and was very ill , and there was no speaking with him .
'what disaster ? ' says my governess hastily , as if she was surprised at it .
'why , ' says her friend , ' he had been at hampstead to visit a gentleman of his acquaintance , and as he came back again he was set upon and robbed ; and having got a little drink too , as they suppose , the rogues abused him , and he is very ill . '
'robbed ! ' says my governess , ' and what did they take from him ? '
'why , ' says her friend , ' they took his gold watch and his gold snuff-box , his fine periwig , and what money he had in his pocket , which was considerable , to be sure , for sir ---- never goes without a purse of guineas about him . '
'pshaw ! ' says my old governess , jeering , ' i warrant you he has got drunk now and got a whore , and she has picked his pocket , and so he comes home to his wife and tells her he has been robbed . that 's an old sham ; a thousand such tricks are put upon the poor women every day . '
'fie ! ' says her friend , ' i find you don 't know sir ---- ; why he is as civil a gentleman , there is not a finer man , nor a soberer , graver , modester person in the whole city ; he abhors such things ; there 's nobody that knows him will think such a thing of him . '
'well , well , ' says my governess , ' that 's none of my business ; if it was , i warrant i should find there was something of that kind in it ; your modest men in common opinion are sometimes no better than other people , only they keep a better character , or , if you please , are the better hypocrites . '
'no , no , ' says her friend , ' i can assure you sir ---- is no hypocrite , he is really an honest , sober gentleman , and he has certainly been robbed . '
'nay , ' says my governess , ' it may be he has ; it is no business of mine , i tell you ; i only want to speak with him ; my business is of another nature . '
'but , ' says her friend , ' let your business be of what nature it will , you cannot see him yet , for he is not fit to be seen , for he is very ill , and bruised very much , ' ' ay , ' says my governess , ' nay , then he has fallen into bad hands , to be sure , ' and then she asked gravely , ' pray , where is he bruised ? '
'why , in the head , ' says her friend , ' and one of his hands , and his face , for they used him barbarously . '
'poor gentleman , ' says my governess , ' i must wait , then , till he recovers ' ; and adds , ' i hope it will not be long , for i want very much to speak with him . '
away she comes to me and tells me this story .
'i have found out your fine gentleman , and a fine gentleman he was , ' says she ; ' but , mercy on him , he is in a sad pickle now . i wonder what the d--l you have done to him ; why , you have almost killed him . '
i looked at her with disorder enough .
'i killed him ! ' says i ; ' you must mistake the person ; i am sure i did nothing to him ; he was very well when i left him , ' said i , ' only drunk and fast asleep . '
'i know nothing of that , ' says she , ' but he is in a sad pickle now ' ; and so she told me all that her friend had said to her .
'well , then , ' says i , ' he fell into bad hands after i left him , for i am sure i left him safe enough . '
about ten days after , or a little more , my governess goes again to her friend , to introduce her to this gentleman ; she had inquired other ways in the meantime , and found that he was about again , if not abroad again , so she got leave to speak with him .
she was a woman of a admirable address , and wanted nobody to introduce her ; she told her tale much better than i shall be able to tell it for her , for she was a mistress of her tongue , as i have said already .
she told him that she came , though a stranger , with a single design of doing him a service and he should find she had no other end in it ; that as she came purely on so friendly an account , she begged promise from him , that if he did not accept what she should officiously propose he would not take it ill that she meddled with what was not her business . she assured him that as what she had to say was a secret that belonged to him only , so whether he accepted her offer or not , it should remain a secret to all the world , unless he exposed it himself ; nor should his refusing her service in it make her so little show her respect as to do him the least injury , so that he should be entirely at liberty to act as he thought fit .
he looked very shy at first , and said he knew nothing that related to him that required much secrecy ; that he had never done any man any wrong , and cared not what anybody might say of him ; that it was no part of his character to be unjust to anybody , nor could he imagine in what any man could render him any service ; but that if it was so disinterested a service as she said , he could not take it ill from any one that they should endeavour to serve him ; and so , as it were , left her a liberty either to tell him or not to tell , as she thought fit .
she found him so perfectly indifferent , that she was almost afraid to enter into the point with him ; but , however , after some other circumlocutions she told him that by a strange and unaccountable accident she came to have a particular knowledge of the late unhappy adventure he had fallen into , and that in such a manner , that there was nobody in the world but herself and him that were acquainted with it , no , not the very person that was with him .
he looked a little angrily at first .
'what adventure ? ' said he .
'why , ' said she , ' of your being robbed coming from knightbr---- ; hampstead , sir , i should say , ' says she .
'be not surprised , sir , ' says she , ' that i am able to tell you every step you took that day from the cloister in smithfield to the spring garden at knightsbridge , and thence to the ---- in the strand , and how you were left asleep in the coach afterwards .
i say , let not this surprise you , for , sir , i do not come to make a booty of you , i ask nothing of you , and i assure you the woman that was with you knows nothing who you are , and never shall ; and yet perhaps i may serve you further still , for i did not come barely to let you know that i was informed of these things , as if i wanted a bribe to conceal them ; assure yourself , sir , ' said she , ' that whatever you think fit to do or say to me , it shall be all a secret as it is , as much as if i were in my grave . '
he was astonished at her discourse , and said gravely to her , ' madam , you are a stranger to me , but it is very unfortunate that you should be let into the secret of the worst action of my life , and a thing that i am so justly ashamed of , that the only satisfaction of it to me was , that i thought it was known only to god and my own conscience . '
'pray , sir , ' says she , ' do not reckon the discovery of it to me to be any part of your misfortune .
it was a thing , i believe , you were surprised into , and perhaps the woman used some art to prompt you to it ; however , you will never find any just cause , ' said she , ' to repent that i came to hear of it ; nor can your own mouth be more silent in it that i have been , and ever shall be . '
'well , ' says he , ' but let me do some justice to the woman too ; whoever she is , i do assure you she prompted me to nothing , she rather declined me .
it was my own folly and madness that brought me into it all , ay , and brought her into it too ; i must give her her due so far .
as to what she took from me , i could expect no less from her in the condition i was in , and to this hour i know not whether she robbed me or the coachman ; if she did it , i forgive her , and i think all gentlemen that do so should be used in the same manner ; but i am more concerned for some other things that i am for all that she took from me . '
my governess now began to come into the whole matter , and he opened himself freely to her .
first she said to him , in answer to what he had said about me , ' i am glad , sir , you are so just to the person that you were with ; i assure you she is a gentlewoman , and no woman of the town ; and however you prevailed with her so far as you did , i am sure ' tis not her practice .
you ran a great venture indeed , sir ; but if that be any part of your care , i am persuaded you may be perfectly easy , for i dare assure you no man has touched her , before you , since her husband , and he has been dead now almost eight years . '
it appeared that this was his grievance , and that he was in a very great fright about it ; however , when my governess said this to him , he appeared very well pleased , and said , ' well , madam , to be plain with you , if i was satisfied of that , i should not so much value what i lost ; for , as to that , the temptation was great , and perhaps she was poor and wanted it . '
'if she had not been poor , sir ---- , ' says my governess , ' i assure you she would never have yielded to you ; and as her poverty first prevailed with her to let you do as you did , so the same poverty prevailed with her to pay herself at last , when she saw you were in such a condition , that if she had not done it , perhaps the next coachman might have done it . '
'well , ' says he , ' much good may it do her .
i say again , all the gentlemen that do so ought to be used in the same manner , and then they would be cautious of themselves .
i have no more concern about it , but on the score which you hinted at before , madam . '
here he entered into some freedoms with her on the subject of what passed between us , which are not so proper for a woman to write , and the great terror that was upon his mind with relation to his wife , for fear he should have received any injury from me , and should communicate if farther ; and asked her at last if she could not procure him an opportunity to speak with me .
my governess gave him further assurances of my being a woman clear from any such thing , and that he was as entirely safe in that respect as he was with his own lady ; but as for seeing me , she said it might be of dangerous consequence ; but , however , that she would talk with me , and let him know my answer , using at the same time some arguments to persuade him not to desire it , and that it could be of no service to him , seeing she hoped he had no desire to renew a correspondence with me , and that on my account it was a kind of putting my life in his hands .
he told her he had a great desire to see me , that he would give her any assurances that were in his power , not to take any advantages of me , and that in the first place he would give me a general release from all demands of any kind .
she insisted how it might tend to a further divulging the secret , and might in the end be injurious to him , entreating him not to press for it ; so at length he desisted .
they had some discourse upon the subject of the things he had lost , and he seemed to be very desirous of his gold watch , and told her if she could procure that for him , he would willingly give as much for it as it was worth . she told him she would endeavour to procure it for him , and leave the valuing it to himself .
accordingly the next day she carried the watch , and he gave her thirty guineas for it , which was more than i should have been able to make of it , though it seems it cost much more .
he spoke something of his periwig , which it seems cost him threescore guineas , and his snuff-box , and in a few days more she carried them too ; which obliged him very much , and he gave her thirty more .
the next day i sent him his fine sword and cane gratis , and demanded nothing of him , but i had no mind to see him , unless it had been so that he might be satisfied i knew who he was , which he was not willing to .
then he entered into a long talk with her of the manner how she came to know all this matter .
she formed a long tale of that part ; how she had it from one that i had told the whole story to , and that was to help me dispose of the goods ; and this confidante brought the things to her , she being by profession a pawnbroker ; and she hearing of his worship 's disaster , guessed at the thing in general ; that having gotten the things into her hands , she had resolved to come and try as she had done .
she then gave him repeated assurances that it should never go out of her mouth , and though she knew the woman very well , yet she had not let her know , meaning me , anything of it ; that is to say , who the person was , which , by the way , was false ; but , however , it was not to his damage , for i never opened my mouth of it to anybody .
i had a great many thoughts in my head about my seeing him again , and was often sorry that i had refused it .
i was persuaded that if i had seen him , and let him know that i knew him , i should have made some advantage of him , and perhaps have had some maintenance from him ; and though it was a life wicked enough , yet it was not so full of danger as this i was engaged in .
however , those thoughts wore off , and i declined seeing him again , for that time ; but my governess saw him often , and he was very kind to her , giving her something almost every time he saw her .
one time in particular she found him very merry , and as she thought he had some wine in his head , and he pressed her again very earnestly to let him see that woman that , as he said , had bewitched him so that night , my governess , who was from the beginning for my seeing him , told him he was so desirous of it that she could almost yield of it , if she could prevail upon me ; adding that if he would please to come to her house in the evening , she would endeavour it , upon his repeated assurances of forgetting what was past .
accordingly she came to me , and told me all the discourse ; in short , she soon biassed me to consent , in a case which i had some regret in my mind for declining before ; so i prepared to see him .
i dressed me to all the advantage possible , i assure you , and for the first time used a little art ; i say for the first time , for i had never yielded to the baseness of paint before , having always had vanity enough to believe i had no need of it .
at the hour appointed he came ; and as she observed before , so it was plain still , that he had been drinking , though very far from what we call being in drink .
he appeared exceeding pleased to see me , and entered into a long discourse with me upon the old affair . i begged his pardon very often for my share of it , protested i had not any such design when first i met him , that i had not gone out with him but that i took him for a very civil gentleman , and that he made me so many promises of offering no uncivility to me .
he alleged the wine he drank , and that he scarce knew what he did , and that if it had not been so , i should never have let him take the freedom with me that he had done .
he protested to me that he never touched any woman but me since he was married to his wife , and it was a surprise upon him ; complimented me upon being so particularly agreeable to him , and the like ; and talked so much of that kind , till i found he had talked himself almost into a temper to do the same thing over again . but i took him up short .
i protested i had never suffered any man to touch me since my husband died , which was near eight years . he said he believed it to be so truly ; and added that madam had intimated as much to him , and that it was his opinion of that part which made his desire to see me again ; and that since he had once broke in upon his virtue with me , and found no ill consequences , he could be safe in venturing there again ; and so , in short , it went on to what i expected , and to what will not bear relating .
my old governess had foreseen it , as well as i , and therefore led him into a room which had not a bed in it , and yet had a chamber within it which had a bed , whither we withdrew for the rest of the night ; and , in short , after some time being together , he went to bed , and lay there all night . i withdrew , but came again undressed in the morning , before it was day , and lay with him the rest of the time . thus , you see , having committed a crime once is a sad handle to the committing of it again ; whereas all the regret and reflections wear off when the temptation renews itself .
when he went away , i told him i hoped he was satisfied he had not been robbed again .
he told me he was satisfied in that point , and could trust me again , and putting his hand in his pocket , gave me five guineas , which was the first money i had gained that way for many years .
i had several visits of the like kind from him , but he never came into a settled way of maintenance , which was what i would have best pleased with .
but this affair had its end too ; for after about a year , i found that he did not come so often as usual , and at last he left if off altogether without any dislike to bidding adieu ; and so there was an end of that short scene of life , which added no great store to me , only to make more work for repentance .
however , during this interval i confined myself pretty much at home ; at least , being thus provided for , i made no adventures , no , not for a quarter of a year after he left me ; but then finding the fund fail , and being loth to spend upon the main stock , i began to think of my old trade , and to look abroad into the street again ; and my first step was lucky enough .
i had dressed myself up in a very mean habit , for as i had several shapes to appear in , i was now in an ordinary stuff-gown , a blue apron , and a straw hat and i placed myself at the door of the three cups inn in st. john street .
there were several carriers used the inn , and the stage-coaches for barnet , for totteridge , and other towns that way stood always in the street in the evening , when they prepared to set out , so that i was ready for anything that offered , for either one or other .
the meaning was this ; people come frequently with bundles and small parcels to those inns , and call for such carriers or coaches as they want , to carry them into the country ; and there generally attend women , porters ' wives or daughters , ready to take in such things for their respective people that employ them .
it happened very oddly that i was standing at the inn gate , and a woman that had stood there before , and which was the porter 's wife belonging to the barnet stage-coach , having observed me , asked if i waited for any of the coaches . i told her yes , i waited for my mistress , that was coming to go to barnet . she asked me who was my mistress , and i told her any madam 's name that came next me ; but as it seemed , i happened upon a name , a family of which name lived at hadley , just beyond barnet .
i said no more to her , or she to me , a good while ; but by and by , somebody calling her at a door a little way off , she desired me that if anybody called for the barnet coach , i would step and call her at the house , which it seems was an alehouse . i said yes , very readily , and away she went .
she was no sooner gone but comes a wench and a child , puffing and sweating , and asks for the barnet coach .
i answered presently , ' here . '
'do you belong to the barnet coach ? ' says she .
'yes , sweetheart , ' said i ; ' what do ye want ? '
'i want room for two passengers , ' says she .
'where are they , sweetheart ? ' said i .
'here 's this girl , pray let her go into the coach , ' says she , ' and i 'll go and fetch my mistress . '
'make haste , then , sweetheart , ' says i , ' for we may be full else . '
the maid had a great bundle under her arm ; so she put the child into the coach , and i said , ' you had best put your bundle into the coach too . '
'no , ' says she , ' i am afraid somebody should slip it away from the child . '
'give to me , then , ' said i , ' and i 'll take care of it . '
'do , then , ' says she , ' and be sure you take of it . '
'i 'll answer for it , ' said i , ' if it were for # 20 value . '
'there , take it , then , ' says she , and away she goes .
as soon as i had got the bundle , and the maid was out of sight , i goes on towards the alehouse , where the porter 's wife was , so that if i had met her , i had then only been going to give her the bundle , and to call her to her business , as if i was going away , and could stay no longer ; but as i did not meet her , i walked away , and turning into charterhouse lane , then crossed into batholomew close , so into little britain , and through the bluecoat hospital , into newgate street .
to prevent my being known , i pulled off my blue apron , and wrapped the bundle in it , which before was made up in a piece of painted calico , and very remarkable ; i also wrapped up my straw hat in it , and so put the bundle upon my head ; and it was very well that i did thus , for coming through the bluecoat hospital , who should i meet but the wench that had given me the bundle to hold .
it seems she was going with her mistress , whom she had been gone to fetch , to the barnet coaches .
i saw she was in haste , and i had no business to stop her ; so away she went , and i brought my bundle safe home to my governess .
there was no money , nor plate , or jewels in the bundle , but a very good suit of indian damask , a gown and a petticoat , a laced-head and ruffles of very good flanders lace , and some linen and other things , such as i knew very well the value of .
this was not indeed my own invention , but was given me by one that had practised it with success , and my governess liked it extremely ; and indeed i tried it again several times , though never twice near the same place ; for the next time i tried it in white chapel , just by the corner of petticoat lane , where the coaches stand that go out to stratford and bow , and that side of the country , and another time at the flying horse , without bishopgate , where the cheston coaches then lay ; and i had always the good luck to come off with some booty .
another time i placed myself at a warehouse by the waterside , where the coasting vessels from the north come , such as from newcastle-upon-tyne , sunderland , and other places .
here , the warehouses being shut , comes a young fellow with a letter ; and he wanted a box and a hamper that was come from newcastle-upon-tyne .
i asked him if he had the marks of it ; so he shows me the letter , by virtue of which he was to ask for it , and which gave an account of the contents , the box being full of linen , and the hamper full of glass ware .
i read the letter , and took care to see the name , and the marks , the name of the person that sent the goods , the name of the person that they were sent to ; then i bade the messenger come in the morning , for that the warehouse-keeper would not be there any more that night .
away went i , and getting materials in a public house , i wrote a letter from mr. john richardson of newcastle to his dear cousin jemmy cole , in london , with an account that he sent by such a vessel ( for i remembered all the particulars to a title ) , so many pieces of huckaback linen , so many ells of dutch holland and the like , in a box , and a hamper of flint glasses from mr. henzill 's glasshouse ; and that the box was marked i. c. no. 1 , and the hamper was directed by a label on the cording .
about an hour after , i came to the warehouse , found the warehouse-keeper , and had the goods delivered me without any scruple ; the value of the linen being about # 22 .
i could fill up this whole discourse with the variety of such adventures , which daily invention directed to , and which i managed with the utmost dexterity , and always with success .
at length--as when does the pitcher come safe home that goes so very often to the well ? --i fell into some small broils , which though they could not affect me fatally , yet made me known , which was the worst thing next to being found guilty that could befall me .
i had taken up the disguise of a widow 's dress ; it was without any real design in view , but only waiting for anything that might offer , as i often did .
it happened that while i was going along the street in covent garden , there was a great cry of ' stop thief !
stop thief ! ' some artists had , it seems , put a trick upon a shopkeeper , and being pursued , some of them fled one way , and some another ; and one of them was , they said , dressed up in widow 's weeds , upon which the mob gathered about me , and some said i was the person , others said no .
immediately came the mercer 's journeyman , and he swore aloud i was the person , and so seized on me . however , when i was brought back by the mob to the mercer 's shop , the master of the house said freely that i was not the woman that was in his shop , and would have let me go immediately ; but another fellow said gravely , ' pray stay till mr. ---- ' ( meaning the journeyman ) ' comes back , for he knows her . '
so they kept me by force near half an hour . they had called a constable , and he stood in the shop as my jailer ; and in talking with the constable i inquired where he lived , and what trade he was ; the man not apprehending in the least what happened afterwards , readily told me his name , and trade , and where he lived ; and told me as a jest , that i might be sure to hear of his name when i came to the old bailey .
some of the servants likewise used me saucily , and had much ado to keep their hands off me ; the master indeed was civiller to me than they , but he would not yet let me go , though he owned he could not say i was in his shop before .
i began to be a little surly with him , and told him i hoped he would not take it ill if i made myself amends upon him in a more legal way another time ; and desired i might send for friends to see me have right done me .
no , he said , he could give no such liberty ; i might ask it when i came before the justice of peace ; and seeing i threatened him , he would take care of me in the meantime , and would lodge me safe in newgate .
i told him it was his time now , but it would be mine by and by , and governed my passion as well as i was able . however , i spoke to the constable to call me a porter , which he did , and then i called for pen , ink , and paper , but they would let me have none .
i asked the porter his name , and where he lived , and the poor man told it me very willingly .
i bade him observe and remember how i was treated there ; that he saw i was detained there by force .
i told him i should want his evidence in another place , and it should not be the worse for him to speak . the porter said he would serve me with all his heart .
'but , madam , ' says he , ' let me hear them refuse to let you go , then i may be able to speak the plainer . '
with that i spoke aloud to the master of the shop , and said , ' sir , you know in your own conscience that i am not the person you look for , and that i was not in your shop before , therefore i demand that you detain me here no longer , or tell me the reason of your stopping me . '
the fellow grew surlier upon this than before , and said he would do neither till he thought fit .
'very well , ' said i to the constable and to the porter ; ' you will be pleased to remember this , gentlemen , another time . '
the porter said , ' yes , madam ' ; and the constable began not to like it , and would have persuaded the mercer to dismiss him , and let me go , since , as he said , he owned i was not the person .
'good , sir , ' says the mercer to him tauntingly , ' are you a justice of peace or a constable ?
i charged you with her ; pray do you do your duty . '
the constable told him , a little moved , but very handsomely , ' i know my duty , and what i am , sir ; i doubt you hardly know what you are doing . '
they had some other hard words , and in the meantime the journeyman , impudent and unmanly to the last degree , used me barbarously , and one of them , the same that first seized upon me , pretended he would search me , and began to lay hands on me .
i spit in his face , called out to the constable , and bade him to take notice of my usage . ' and pray , mr. constable , ' said i , ' ask that villain 's name , ' pointing to the man .
the constable reproved him decently , told him that he did not know what he did , for he knew that his master acknowledged i was not the person that was in his shop ; ' and , ' says the constable , ' i am afraid your master is bringing himself , and me too , into trouble , if this gentlewoman comes to prove who she is , and where she was , and it appears that she is not the woman you pretend to . '
'damn her , ' says the fellow again , with a impudent , hardened face , ' she is the lady , you may depend upon it ; i 'll swear she is the same body that was in the shop , and that i gave the pieces of satin that is lost into her own hand . you shall hear more of it when mr. william and mr. anthony ( those were other journeymen ) come back ; they will know her again as well as i . '
just as the insolent rogue was talking thus to the constable , comes back mr. william and mr. anthony , as he called them , and a great rabble with them , bringing along with them the true widow that i was pretended to be ; and they came sweating and blowing into the shop , and with a great deal of triumph , dragging the poor creature in the most butcherly manner up towards their master , who was in the back shop , and cried out aloud , ' here 's the widow , sir ; we have catcher her at last . '
'what do ye mean by that ? ' says the master .
'why , we have her already ; there she sits , ' says he , ' and mr. ---- , ' says he , ' can swear this is she . '
the other man , whom they called mr. anthony , replied , ' mr. ---- may say what he will , and swear what he will , but this is the woman , and there 's the remnant of satin she stole ; i took it out of her clothes with my own hand . '
i sat still now , and began to take a better heart , but smiled and said nothing ; the master looked pale ; the constable turned about and looked at me .
'let ' em alone , mr. constable , ' said i ; ' let ' em go on . '
the case was plain and could not be denied , so the constable was charged with the right thief , and the mercer told me very civilly he was sorry for the mistake , and hoped i would not take it ill ; that they had so many things of this nature put upon them every day , that they could not be blamed for being very sharp in doing themselves justice .
'not take it ill , sir ! ' said i ; ' how can i take it well !
if you had dismissed me when your insolent fellow seized on me it the street , and brought me to you , and when you yourself acknowledged i was not the person , i would have put it by , and not taken it ill , because of the many ill things i believe you have put upon you daily ; but your treatment of me since has been insufferable , and especially that of your servant ; i must and will have reparation for that . '
then he began to parley with me , said he would make me any reasonable satisfaction , and would fain have had me tell him what it was i expected . i told him that i should not be my own judge , the law should decide it for me ; and as i was to be carried before a magistrate , i should let him hear there what i had to say .
he told me there was no occasion to go before the justice now , i was at liberty to go where i pleased ; and so , calling to the constable , told him he might let me go , for i was discharged . the constable said calmly to him , ' sir , you asked me just now if i knew whether i was a constable or justice , and bade me do my duty , and charged me with this gentlewoman as a prisoner .
now , sir , i find you do not understand what is my duty , for you would make me a justice indeed ; but i must tell you it is not in my power .
i may keep a prisoner when i am charged with him , but ' tis the law and the magistrate alone that can discharge that prisoner ; therefore ' tis a mistake , sir ; i must carry her before a justice now , whether you think well of it or not . '
the mercer was very high with the constable at first ; but the constable happening to be not a hired officer , but a good , substantial kind of man ( i think he was a corn-handler ) , and a man of good sense , stood to his business , would not discharge me without going to a justice of the peace ; and i insisted upon it too .
when the mercer saw that , ' well , ' says he to the constable , ' you may carry her where you please ; i have nothing to say to her . '
'but , sir , ' says the constable , ' you will go with us , i hope , for ' tis you that charged me with her . '
'no , not i , ' says the mercer ; ' i tell you i have nothing to say to her . '
'but pray , sir , do , ' says the constable ; ' i desire it of you for your own sake , for the justice can do nothing without you . '
'prithee , fellow , ' says the mercer , ' go about your business ; i tell you i have nothing to say to the gentlewoman . i charge you in the king 's name to dismiss her . '
'sir , ' says the constable , ' i find you don 't know what it is to be constable ; i beg of you don 't oblige me to be rude to you . '
'i think i need not ; you are rude enough already , ' says the mercer .
'no , sir , ' says the constable , ' i am not rude ; you have broken the peace in bringing an honest woman out of the street , when she was about her lawful occasion , confining her in your shop , and ill-using her here by your servants ; and now can you say i am rude to you ?
i think i am civil to you in not commanding or charging you in the king 's name to go with me , and charging every man i see that passes your door to aid and assist me in carrying you by force ; this you cannot but know i have power to do , and yet i forbear it , and once more entreat you to go with me . '
well , he would not for all this , and gave the constable ill language .
however , the constable kept his temper , and would not be provoked ; and then i put in and said , ' come , mr. constable , let him alone ; i shall find ways enough to fetch him before a magistrate , i don 't fear that ; but there 's the fellow , ' says i , ' he was the man that seized on me as i was innocently going along the street , and you are a witness of the violence with me since ; give me leave to charge you with him , and carry him before the justice . '
'yes , madam , ' says the constable ; and turning to the fellow ' come , young gentleman , ' says he to the journeyman , ' you must go along with us ; i hope you are not above the constable 's power , though your master is . '
the fellow looked like a condemned thief , and hung back , then looked at his master , as if he could help him ; and he , like a fool , encourage the fellow to be rude , and he truly resisted the constable , and pushed him back with a good force when he went to lay hold on him , at which the constable knocked him down , and called out for help ; and immediately the shop was filled with people , and the constable seized the master and man , and all his servants .
this first ill consequence of this fray was , that the woman they had taken , who was really the thief , made off , and got clear away in the crowd ; and two other that they had stopped also ; whether they were really guilty or not , that i can say nothing to .
by this time some of his neighbours having come in , and , upon inquiry , seeing how things went , had endeavoured to bring the hot-brained mercer to his senses , and he began to be convinced that he was in the wrong ; and so at length we went all very quietly before the justice , with a mob of about five hundred people at our heels ; and all the way i went i could hear the people ask what was the matter , and other reply and say , a mercer had stopped a gentlewoman instead of a thief , and had afterwards taken the thief , and now the gentlewoman had taken the mercer , and was carrying him before the justice .
this pleased the people strangely , and made the crowd increase , and they cried out as they went , ' which is the rogue ? which is the mercer ? ' and especially the women .
then when they saw him they cried out , ' that 's he , that 's he ' ; and every now and then came a good dab of dirt at him ; and thus we marched a good while , till the mercer thought fit to desire the constable to call a coach to protect himself from the rabble ; so we rode the rest of the way , the constable and i , and the mercer and his man .
when we came to the justice , which was an ancient gentleman in bloomsbury , the constable giving first a summary account of the matter , the justice bade me speak , and tell what i had to say . and first he asked my name , which i was very loth to give , but there was no remedy , so i told him my name was mary flanders , that i was a widow , my husband being a sea captain , died on a voyage to virginia ; and some other circumstances i told which he could never contradict , and that i lodged at present in town with such a person , naming my governess ; but that i was preparing to go over to america , where my husband 's effects lay , and that i was going that day to buy some clothes to put myself into second mourning , but had not yet been in any shop , when that fellow , pointing to the mercer 's journeyman , came rushing upon me with such fury as very much frighted me , and carried me back to his master 's shop , where , though his master acknowledged i was not the person , yet he would not dismiss me , but charged a constable with me .
then i proceeded to tell how the journeyman treated me ; how they would not suffer me to send for any of my friends ; how afterwards they found the real thief , and took the very goods they had lost upon her , and all the particulars as before .
then the constable related his case : his dialogue with the mercer about discharging me , and at last his servant 's refusing to go with him , when he had charged him with him , and his master encouraging him to do so , and at last his striking the constable , and the like , all as i have told it already .
the justice then heard the mercer and his man .
the mercer indeed made a long harangue of the great loss they have daily by lifters and thieves ; that it was easy for them to mistake , and that when he found it he would have dismissed me , etc . , as above .
as to the journeyman , he had very little to say , but that he pretended other of the servants told him that i was really the person .
upon the whole , the justice first of all told me very courteously i was discharged ; that he was very sorry that the mercer 's man should in his eager pursuit have so little discretion as to take up an innocent person for a guilty person ; that if he had not been so unjust as to detain me afterward , he believed i would have forgiven the first affront ; that , however , it was not in his power to award me any reparation for anything , other than by openly reproving them , which he should do ; but he supposed i would apply to such methods as the law directed ; in the meantime he would bind him over .
but as to the breach of the peace committed by the journeyman , he told me he should give me some satisfaction for that , for he should commit him to newgate for assaulting the constable , and for assaulting me also .
accordingly he sent the fellow to newgate for that assault , and his master gave bail , and so we came away ; but i had the satisfaction of seeing the mob wait upon them both , as they came out , hallooing and throwing stones and dirt at the coaches they rode in ; and so i came home to my governess .
after this hustle , coming home and telling my governess the story , she falls a-laughing at me .
'why are you merry ? ' says i ; ' the story has not so much laughing room in it as you imagine ; i am sure i have had a great deal of hurry and fright too , with a pack of ugly rogues . '
'laugh ! ' says my governess ; ' i laugh , child , to see what a lucky creature you are ; why , this job will be the best bargain to you that ever you made in your life , if you manage it well .
i warrant you , ' says she , ' you shall make the mercer pay you # 500 for damages , besides what you shall get out of the journeyman . '
i had other thoughts of the matter than she had ; and especially , because i had given in my name to the justice of peace ; and i knew that my name was so well known among the people at hick 's hall , the old bailey , and such places , that if this cause came to be tried openly , and my name came to be inquired into , no court would give much damages , for the reputation of a person of such a character .
however , i was obliged to begin a prosecution in form , and accordingly my governess found me out a very creditable sort of a man to manage it , being an attorney of very good business , and of a good reputation , and she was certainly in the right of this ; for had she employed a pettifogging hedge solicitor , or a man not known , and not in good reputation , i should have brought it to but little .
it was not long after the affair with the mercer was made up , that i went out in an equipage quite different from any i had ever appeared in before .
i dressed myself like a beggar woman , in the coarsest and most despicable rags i could get , and i walked about peering and peeping into every door and window i came near ; and indeed i was in such a plight now that i knew as ill how to behave in as ever i did in any .
i naturally abhorred dirt and rags ; i had been bred up tight and cleanly , and could be no other , whatever condition i was in ; so that this was the most uneasy disguise to me that ever i put on .
i said presently to myself that this would not do , for this was a dress that everybody was shy and afraid of ; and i thought everybody looked at me , as if they were afraid i should come near them , lest i should take something from them , or afraid to come near me , lest they should get something from me .
i wandered about all the evening the first time i went out , and made nothing of it , but came home again wet , draggled , and tired . however , i went out again the next night , and then i met with a little adventure , which had like to have cost me dear .
as i was standing near a tavern door , there comes a gentleman on horseback , and lights at the door , and wanting to go into the tavern , he calls one of the drawers to hold his horse .
he stayed pretty long in the tavern , and the drawer heard his master call , and thought he would be angry with him .
seeing me stand by him , he called to me , ' here , woman , ' says he , ' hold this horse a while , till i go in ; if the gentleman comes , he 'll give you something . '
'yes , ' says i , and takes the horse , and walks off with him very soberly , and carried him to my governess .
this had been a booty to those that had understood it ; but never was poor thief more at a loss to know what to do with anything that was stolen ; for when i came home , my governess was quite confounded , and what to do with the creature , we neither of us knew . to send him to a stable was doing nothing , for it was certain that public notice would be given in the gazette , and the horse described , so that we durst not go to fetch it again .
all the remedy we had for this unlucky adventure was to go and set up the horse at an inn , and send a note by a porter to the tavern , that the gentleman 's horse that was lost such a time was left at such an inn , and that he might be had there ; that the poor woman that held him , having led him about the street , not being able to lead him back again , had left him there .
we might have waited till the owner had published and offered a reward , but we did not care to venture the receiving the reward .
so this was a robbery and no robbery , for little was lost by it , and nothing was got by it , and i was quite sick of going out in a beggar 's dress ; it did not answer at all , and besides , i thought it was ominous and threatening .
while i was in this disguise , i fell in with a parcel of folks of a worse kind than any i ever sorted with , and i saw a little into their ways too . these were coiners of money , and they made some very good offers to me , as to profit ; but the part they would have had me have embarked in was the most dangerous part . i mean that of the very working the die , as they call it , which , had i been taken , had been certain death , and that at a stake--i say , to be burnt to death at a stake ; so that though i was to appearance but a beggar , and they promised mountains of gold and silver to me to engage , yet it would not do . it is true , if i had been really a beggar , or had been desperate as when i began , i might perhaps have closed with it ; for what care they to die that can 't tell how to live ? but at present this was not my condition , at least i was for no such terrible risks as those ; besides , the very thoughts of being burnt at a stake struck terror into my very soul , chilled my blood , and gave me the vapours to such a degree , as i could not think of it without trembling .
this put an end to my disguise too , for as i did not like the proposal , so i did not tell them so , but seemed to relish it , and promised to meet again .
but i durst see them no more ; for if i had seen them , and not complied , though i had declined it with the greatest assurance of secrecy in the world , they would have gone near to have murdered me , to make sure work , and make themselves easy , as they call it . what kind of easiness that is , they may best judge that understand how easy men are that can murder people to prevent danger .
but at length i met with a woman that had often told me what adventures she had made , and with success , at the waterside , and i closed with her , and we drove on our business pretty well .
one day we came among some dutch people at st. catherine 's , where we went on pretence to buy goods that were privately got on shore .
i was two or three times in a house where we saw a good quantity of prohibited goods , and my companion once brought away three pieces of dutch black silk that turned to good account , and i had my share of it ; but in all the journeys i made by myself , i could not get an opportunity to do anything , so i laid it aside , for i had been so often , that they began to suspect something , and were so shy , that i saw nothing was to be done .
this baulked me a little , and i resolved to push at something or other , for i was not used to come back so often without purchase ; so the next day i dressed myself up fine , and took a walk to the other end of the town .
i passed through the exchange in the strand , but had no notion of finding anything to do there , when on a sudden i saw a great cluttering in the place , and all the people , shopkeepers as well as others , standing up and staring ; and what should it be but some great duchess come into the exchange , and they said the queen was coming .
i set myself close up to a shop-side with my back to the counter , as if to let the crowd pass by , when keeping my eye upon a parcel of lace which the shopkeeper was showing to some ladies that stood by me , the shopkeeper and her maid were so taken up with looking to see who was coming , and what shop they would go to , that i found means to slip a paper of lace into my pocket and come clear off with it ; so the lady-milliner paid dear enough for her gaping after the queen .
i went off from the shop , as if driven along by the throng , and mingling myself with the crowd , went out at the other door of the exchange , and so got away before they missed their lace ; and because i would not be followed , i called a coach and shut myself up in it .
i had scarce shut the coach doors up , but i saw the milliner 's maid and five or six more come running out into the street , and crying out as if they were frightened .
they did not cry ' stop thief ! ' because nobody ran away , but i could hear the word ' robbed , ' and ' lace , ' two or three times , and saw the wench wringing her hands , and run staring to and again , like one scared .
the coachman that had taken me up was getting up into the box , but was not quite up , so that the horse had not begun to move ; so that i was terrible uneasy , and i took the packet of lace and laid it ready to have dropped it out at the flap of the coach , which opens before , just behind the coachman ; but to my great satisfaction , in less than a minute the coach began to move , that is to say , as soon as the coachman had got up and spoken to his horses ; so he drove away without any interruption , and i brought off my purchase , which was work near # 20 .
the next day i dressed up again , but in quite different clothes , and walked the same way again , but nothing offered till i came into st. james 's park , where i saw abundance of fine ladies in the park , walking in the mall , and among the rest there was a little miss , a young lady of about twelve or thirteen years old , and she had a sister , as i suppose it was , with her , that might be about nine years old .
i observed the biggest had a fine gold watch on , and a good necklace of pearl , and they had a footman in livery with them ; but as it is not usual for the footman to go behind the ladies in the mall , so i observed the footman stopped at their going into the mall , and the biggest of the sisters spoke to him , which i perceived was to bid him be just there when they came back .
when i heard her dismiss the footman , i stepped up to him and asked him , what little lady that was ? and held a little chat with him about what a pretty child it was with her , and how genteel and well-carriaged the lady , the eldest , would be : how womanish , and how grave ; and the fool of a fellow told me presently who she was ; that she was sir thomas ---- ' s eldest daughter , of essex , and that she was a great fortune ; that her mother was not come to town yet ; but she was with sir william ---- ' s lady , of suffolk , at her lodging in suffolk street , and a great deal more ; that they had a maid and a woman to wait on them , besides sir thomas 's coach , the coachman , and himself ; and that young lady was governess to the whole family , as well here as at home too ; and , in short , told me abundance of things enough for my business .
i was very well dressed , and had my gold watch as well as she ; so i left the footman , and i puts myself in a rank with this young lady , having stayed till she had taken one double turn in the mall , and was going forward again ; by and by i saluted her by her name , with the title of lady betty .
i asked her when she heard from her father ; when my lady her mother would be in town , and how she did .
i talked so familiarly to her of her whole family that she could not suspect but that i knew them all intimately . i asked her why she would come abroad without mrs. chime with her ( that was the name of her woman ) to take of mrs. judith , that was her sister .
then i entered into a long chat with her about her sister , what a fine little lady she was , and asked her if she had learned french , and a thousand such little things to entertain her , when on a sudden we saw the guards come , and the crowd ran to see the king go by to the parliament house .
the ladies ran all to the side of the mall , and i helped my lady to stand upon the edge of the boards on the side of the mall , that she might be high enough to see ; and took the little one and lifted her quite up ; during which , i took care to convey the gold watch so clean away from the lady betty , that she never felt it , nor missed it , till all the crowd was gone , and she was gotten into the middle of the mall among the other ladies .
i took my leave of her in the very crowd , and said to her , as if in haste , ' dear lady betty , take care of your little sister . '
and so the crowd did as it were thrust me away from her , and that i was obliged unwillingly to take my leave .
the hurry in such cases is immediately over , and the place clear as soon as the king is gone by ; but as there is always a great running and clutter just as the king passes , so having dropped the two little ladies , and done my business with them without any miscarriage , i kept hurrying on among the crowd , as if i ran to see the king , and so i got before the crowd and kept so till i came to the end of the mall , when the king going on towards the horse guards , i went forward to the passage , which went then through against the lower end of the haymarket , and there i bestowed a coach upon myself , and made off , and i confess i have not yet been so good as my word , viz. to go and visit my lady betty .
i was once of the mind to venture staying with lady betty till she missed the watch , and so have made a great outcry about it with her , and have got her into the coach , and put myself in the coach with her , and have gone home with her ; for she appeared so fond of me , and so perfectly deceived by my so readily talking to her of all her relations and family , that i thought it was very easy to push the thing farther , and to have got at least the necklace of pearl ; but when i considered that though the child would not perhaps have suspected me , other people might , and that if i was searched i should be discovered , i thought it was best to go off with what i had got , and be satisfied .
i came accidentally afterwards to hear , that when the young lady missed her watch , she made a great outcry in the park , and sent her footman up and down to see if he could find me out , she having described me so perfectly that he knew presently that it was the same person that had stood and talked so long with him , and asked him so many questions about them ; but i gone far enough out of their reach before she could come at her footman to tell him the story .
i am drawing now towards a new variety of the scenes of life .
upon my return , being hardened by along race of crime , and success unparalleled , at least in the reach of my own knowledge , i had , as i have said , no thoughts of laying down a trade which , if i was to judge by the example of other , must , however , end at last in misery and sorrow .
it was on the christmas day following , in the evening , that , to finish a long train of wickedness , i went abroad to see what might offer in my way ; when going by a working silversmith 's in foster lane , i saw a tempting bait indeed , and not be resisted by one of my occupation , for the shop had nobody in it , as i could see , and a great deal of loose plate lay in the window , and at the seat of the man , who usually , as i suppose , worked at one side of the shop .
i went boldly in , and was just going to lay my hand upon a piece of plate , and might have done it , and carried it clear off , for any care that the men who belonged to the shop had taken of it ; but an officious fellow in a house , not a shop , on the other side of the way , seeing me go in , and observing that there was nobody in the shop , comes running over the street , and into the shop , and without asking me what i was , or who , seizes upon me , an cries out for the people of the house .
i had not , as i said above , touched anything in the shop , and seeing a glimpse of somebody running over to the shop , i had so much presence of mind as to knock very hard with my foot on the floor of the house , and was just calling out too , when the fellow laid hands on me .
however , as i had always most courage when i was in most danger , so when the fellow laid hands on me , i stood very high upon it , that i came in to buy half a dozen of silver spoons ; and to my good fortune , it was a silversmith 's that sold plate , as well as worked plate for other shops .
the fellow laughed at that part , and put such a value upon the service that he had done his neighbour , that he would have it be that i came not to buy , but to steal ; and raising a great crowd .
i said to the master of the shop , who by this time was fetched home from some neighbouring place , that it was in vain to make noise , and enter into talk there of the case ; the fellow had insisted that i came to steal , and he must prove it , and i desired we might go before a magistrate without any more words ; for i began to see i should be too hard for the man that had seized me .
the master and mistress of the shop were really not so violent as the man from t 'other side of the way ; and the man said , ' mistress , you might come into the shop with a good design for aught i know , but it seemed a dangerous thing for you to come into such a shop as mine is , when you see nobody there ; and i cannot do justice to my neighbour , who was so kind to me , as not to acknowledge he had reason on his side ; though , upon the whole , i do not find you attempted to take anything , and i really know not what to do in it . '
i pressed him to go before a magistrate with me , and if anything could be proved on me that was like a design of robbery , i should willingly submit , but if not , i expected reparation .
just while we were in this debate , and a crowd of people gathered about the door , came by sir t. b. , an alderman of the city , and justice of the peace , and the goldsmith hearing of it , goes out , and entreated his worship to come in and decide the case .
give the goldsmith his due , he told his story with a great deal of justice and moderation , and the fellow that had come over , and seized upon me , told his with as much heat and foolish passion , which did me good still , rather than harm .
it came then to my turn to speak , and i told his worship that i was a stranger in london , being newly come out of the north ; that i lodged in such a place , that i was passing this street , and went into the goldsmith 's shop to buy half a dozen of spoons .
by great luck i had an old silver spoon in my pocket , which i pulled out , and told him i had carried that spoon to match it with half a dozen of new ones , that it might match some i had in the country .
that seeing nobody i the shop , i knocked with my foot very hard to make the people hear , and had also called aloud with my voice ; ' tis true , there was loose plate in the shop , but that nobody could say i had touched any of it , or gone near it ; that a fellow came running into the shop out of the street , and laid hands on me in a furious manner , in the very moments while i was calling for the people of the house ; that if he had really had a mind to have done his neighbour any service , he should have stood at a distance , and silently watched to see whether i had touched anything or no , and then have clapped in upon me , and taken me in the fact .
'that is very true , ' says mr. alderman , and turning to the fellow that stopped me , he asked him if it was true that i knocked with my foot ?
he said , yes , i had knocked , but that might be because of his coming .
'nay , ' says the alderman , taking him short , ' now you contradict yourself , for just now you said she was in the shop with her back to you , and did not see you till you came upon her . '
now it was true that my back was partly to the street , but yet as my business was of a kind that required me to have my eyes every way , so i really had a glance of him running over , as i said before , though he did not perceive it .
after a full hearing , the alderman gave it as his opinion that his neighbour was under a mistake , and that i was innocent , and the goldsmith acquiesced in it too , and his wife , and so i was dismissed ; but as i was going to depart , mr. alderman said , ' but hold , madam , if you were designing to buy spoons , i hope you will not let my friend here lose his customer by the mistake . '
i readily answered , ' no , sir , i 'll buy the spoons still , if he can match my odd spoon , which i brought for a pattern ' ; and the goldsmith showed me some of the very same fashion .
so he weighed the spoons , and they came to five-and-thirty shillings , so i pulls out my purse to pay him , in which i had near twenty guineas , for i never went without such a sum about me , whatever might happen , and i found it of use at other times as well as now .
when mr. alderman saw my money , he said , ' well , madam , now i am satisfied you were wronged , and it was for this reason that i moved you should buy the spoons , and stayed till you had bought them , for if you had not had money to pay for them , i should have suspected that you did not come into the shop with an intent to buy , for indeed the sort of people who come upon these designs that you have been charged with , are seldom troubled with much gold in their pockets , as i see you are . '
i smiled , and told his worship , that then i owed something of his favour to my money , but i hoped he saw reason also in the justice he had done me before .
he said , yes , he had , but this had confirmed his opinion , and he was fully satisfied now of my having been injured .
so i came off with flying colours , though from an affair in which i was at the very brink of destruction .
it was but three days after this , that not at all made cautious by my former danger , as i used to be , and still pursuing the art which i had so long been employed in , i ventured into a house where i saw the doors open , and furnished myself , as i though verily without being perceived , with two pieces of flowered silks , such as they call brocaded silk , very rich .
it was not a mercer 's shop , nor a warehouse of a mercer , but looked like a private dwelling-house , and was , it seems , inhabited by a man that sold goods for the weavers to the mercers , like a broker or factor .
that i may make short of this black part of this story , i was attacked by two wenches that came open-mouthed at me just as i was going out at the door , and one of them pulled me back into the room , while the other shut the door upon me .
i would have given them good words , but there was no room for it , two fiery dragons could not have been more furious than they were ; they tore my clothes , bullied and roared as if they would have murdered me ; the mistress of the house came next , and then the master , and all outrageous , for a while especially .
i gave the master very good words , told him the door was open , and things were a temptation to me , that i was poor and distressed , and poverty was when many could not resist , and begged him with tears to have pity on me .
the mistress of the house was moved with compassion , and inclined to have let me go , and had almost persuaded her husband to it also , but the saucy wenches were run , even before they were sent , and had fetched a constable , and then the master said he could not go back , i must go before a justice , and answered his wife that he might come into trouble himself if he should let me go .
the sight of the constable , indeed , struck me with terror , and i thought i should have sunk into the ground . i fell into faintings , and indeed the people themselves thought i would have died , when the woman argued again for me , and entreated her husband , seeing they had lost nothing , to let me go .
i offered him to pay for the two pieces , whatever the value was , though i had not got them , and argued that as he had his goods , and had really lost nothing , it would be cruel to pursue me to death , and have my blood for the bare attempt of taking them .
i put the constable in mind that i had broke no doors , nor carried anything away ; and when i came to the justice , and pleaded there that i had neither broken anything to get in , nor carried anything out , the justice was inclined to have released me ; but the first saucy jade that stopped me , affirming that i was going out with the goods , but that she stopped me and pulled me back as i was upon the threshold , the justice upon that point committed me , and i was carried to newgate .
that horrid place ! my very blood chills at the mention of its name ; the place where so many of my comrades had been locked up , and from whence they went to the fatal tree ; the place where my mother suffered so deeply , where i was brought into the world , and from whence i expected no redemption but by an infamous death : to conclude , the place that had so long expected me , and which with so much art and success i had so long avoided .
i was not fixed indeed ; ' tis impossible to describe the terror of my mind , when i was first brought in , and when i looked around upon all the horrors of that dismal place . i looked on myself as lost , and that i had nothing to think of but of going out of the world , and that with the utmost infamy : the hellish noise , the roaring , swearing , and clamour , the stench and nastiness , and all the dreadful crowd of afflicting things that i saw there , joined together to make the place seem an emblem of hell itself , and a kind of an entrance into it .
i got no sleep for several nights or days after i came into that wretched place , and glad i would have been for some time to have died there , though i did not consider dying as it ought to be considered neither ; indeed , nothing could be filled with more horror to my imagination than the very place , nothing was more odious to me than the company that was there .
oh ! if i had but been sent to any place in the world , and not to newgate , i should have thought myself happy .
in the next place , how did the hardened wretches that were there before me triumph over me ! what !
what !
mrs. mary , mrs. molly , and after that plain moll flanders ?
they thought the devil had helped me , they said , that i had reigned so long ; they expected me there many years ago , and was i come at last ?
then they flouted me with my dejections , welcomed me to the place , wished me joy , bid me have a good heart , not to be cast down , things might not be so bad as i feared , and the like ; then called for brandy , and drank to me , but put it all up to my score , for they told me i was but just come to the college , as they called it , and sure i had money in my pocket , though they had none .
i asked one of this crew how long she had been there .
she said four months .
i asked her how the place looked to her when she first came into it .
'just as it did now to you , ' says she , dreadful and frightful ' ; that she thought she was in hell ; ' and i believe so still , ' adds she , ' but it is natural to me now , i don 't disturb myself about it . '
'i suppose , ' says i , ' you are in no danger of what is to follow ? '
'nay , ' says she , ' for you are mistaken there , i assure you , for i am under sentence , only i pleaded my belly , but i am no more with child than the judge that tried me , and i expect to be called down next sessions . '
this ' calling down ' is calling down to their former judgment , when a woman has been respited for her belly , but proves not to be with child , or if she has been with child , and has been brought to bed .
'well , ' says i , ' are you thus easy ? '
'ay , ' says she , ' i can 't help myself ; what signifies being sad ?
if i am hanged , there 's an end of me , ' says she ; and away she turns dancing , and sings as she goes the following piece of newgate wit ----
'if i swing by the string i shall hear the bell ring and then there 's an end of poor jenny . '
i cannot say , as some do , this devil is not so black as he is painted ; for indeed no colours can represent the place to the life , not any soul conceive aright of it but those who have been suffers there .
but how hell should become by degree so natural , and not only tolerable , but even agreeable , is a thing unintelligible but by those who have experienced it , as i have .
the same night that i was sent to newgate , i sent the news of it to my old governess , who was surprised at it , you may be sure , and spent the night almost as ill out of newgate , as i did in it .
the next morning she came to see me ; she did what she could to comfort me , but she saw that was to no purpose ; however , as she said , to sink under the weight was but to increase the weight ; she immediately applied herself to all the proper methods to prevent the effects of it , which we feared , and first she found out the two fiery jades that had surprised me . she tampered with them , offered them money , and , in a word , tried all imaginable ways to prevent a prosecution ; she offered one of the wenches # 100 to go away from her mistress , and not to appear against me , but she was so resolute , that though she was but a servant maid at # 3 a year wages or thereabouts , she refused it , and would have refused it , as my governess said she believed , if she had offered her # 500 .
then she attacked the other maid ; she was not so hard-hearted in appearance as the other , and sometimes seemed inclined to be merciful ; but the first wench kept her up , and changed her mind , and would not so much as let my governess talk with her , but threatened to have her up for tampering with the evidence .
then she applied to the master , that is to say , the man whose goods had been stolen , and particularly to his wife , who , as i told you , was inclined at first to have some compassion for me ; she found the woman the same still , but the man alleged he was bound by the justice that committed me , to prosecute , and that he should forfeit his recognisance .
my governess offered to find friends that should get his recognisances off of the file , as they call it , and that he should not suffer ; but it was not possible to convince him that could be done , or that he could be safe any way in the world but by appearing against me ; so i was to have three witnesses of fact against me , the master and his two maids ; that is to say , i was as certain to be cast for my life as i was certain that i was alive , and i had nothing to do but to think of dying , and prepare for it .
i lived many days here under the utmost horror of soul ; i had death , as it were , in view , and thought of nothing night and day , but of gibbets and halters , evil spirits and devils ; it is not to be expressed by words how i was harassed , between the dreadful apprehensions of death and the terror of my conscience reproaching me with my past horrible life .
the ordinary of newgate came to me , and talked a little in his way , but all his divinity ran upon confessing my crime , as he called it ( though he knew not what i was in for ) , making a full discovery , and the like , without which he told me god would never forgive me ; and he said so little to the purpose , that i had no manner of consolation from him ; and then to observe the poor creature preaching confession and repentance to me in the morning , and find him drunk with brandy and spirits by noon , this had something in it so shocking , that i began to nauseate the man more than his work , and his work too by degrees , for the sake of the man ; so that i desired him to trouble me no more .
i know not how it was , but by the indefatigable application of my diligent governess i had no bill preferred against me the first sessions , i mean to the grand jury , at guildhall ; so i had another month or five weeks before me , and without doubt this ought to have been accepted by me , as so much time given me for reflection upon what was past , and preparation for what was to come ; or , in a word , i ought to have esteemed it as a space given me for repentance , and have employed it as such , but it was not in me .
i was sorry ( as before ) for being in newgate , but had very few signs of repentance about me .
on the contrary , like the waters in the cavities and hollows of mountains , which petrify and turn into stone whatever they are suffered to drop on , so the continual conversing with such a crew of hell-hounds as i was , had the same common operation upon me as upon other people . i degenerated into stone ; i turned first stupid and senseless , then brutish and thoughtless , and at last raving mad as any of them were ; and , in short , i became as naturally pleased and easy with the place , as if indeed i had been born there .
it is scarce possible to imagine that our natures should be capable of so much degeneracy , as to make that pleasant and agreeable that in itself is the most complete misery .
here was a circumstance that i think it is scarce possible to mention a worse : i was as exquisitely miserable as , speaking of common cases , it was possible for any one to be that had life and health , and money to help them , as i had .
i had weight of guilt upon me enough to sink any creature who had the least power of reflection left , and had any sense upon them of the happiness of this life , of the misery of another ; then i had at first remorse indeed , but no repentance ; i had now neither remorse nor repentance .
i had a crime charged on me , the punishment of which was death by our law ; the proof so evident , that there was no room for me so much as to plead not guilty . i had the name of an old offender , so that i had nothing to expect but death in a few weeks ' time , neither had i myself any thoughts of escaping ; and yet a certain strange lethargy of soul possessed me . i had no trouble , no apprehensions , no sorrow about me , the first surprise was gone ; i was , i may well say , i know not how ; my senses , my reason , nay , my conscience , were all asleep ; my course of life for forty years had been a horrid complication of wickedness , whoredom , adultery , incest , lying , theft ; and , in a word , everything but murder and treason had been my practice from the age of eighteen , or thereabouts , to three-score ; and now i was engulfed in the misery of punishment , and had an infamous death just at the door , and yet i had no sense of my condition , no thought of heaven or hell at least , that went any farther than a bare flying touch , like the stitch or pain that gives a hint and goes off . i neither had a heart to ask god 's mercy , nor indeed to think of it .
and in this , i think , i have given a brief description of the completest misery on earth .
all my terrifying thoughts were past , the horrors of the place were become familiar , and i felt no more uneasiness at the noise and clamours of the prison , than they did who made that noise ; in a word , i was become a mere newgate-bird , as wicked and as outrageous as any of them ; nay , i scarce retained the habit and custom of good breeding and manners , which all along till now ran through my conversation ; so thorough a degeneracy had possessed me , that i was no more the same thing that i had been , than if i had never been otherwise than what i was now .
in the middle of this hardened part of my life i had another sudden surprise , which called me back a little to that thing called sorrow , which indeed i began to be past the sense of before .
they told me one night that there was brought into the prison late the night before three highwaymen , who had committed robbery somewhere on the road to windsor , hounslow heath , i think it was , and were pursued to uxbridge by the country , and were taken there after a gallant resistance , in which i know not how many of the country people were wounded , and some killed .
it is not to be wondered that we prisoners were all desirous enough to see these brave , topping gentlemen , that were talked up to be such as their fellows had not been known , and especially because it was said they would in the morning be removed into the press-yard , having given money to the head master of the prison , to be allowed the liberty of that better part of the prison .
so we that were women placed ourselves in the way , that we would be sure to see them ; but nothing could express the amazement and surprise i was in , when the very first man that came out i knew to be my lancashire husband , the same who lived so well at dunstable , and the same who i afterwards saw at brickhill , when i was married to my last husband , as has been related .
i was struck dumb at the sight , and knew neither what to say nor what to do ; he did not know me , and that was all the present relief i had . i quitted my company , and retired as much as that dreadful place suffers anybody to retire , and i cried vehemently for a great while .
'dreadful creature that i am , ' said i , ' how may poor people have i made miserable ?
how many desperate wretches have i sent to the devil ? '
he had told me at chester he was ruined by that match , and that his fortunes were made desperate on my account ; for that thinking i had been a fortune , he was run into debt more than he was able to pay , and that he knew not what course to take ; that he would go into the army and carry a musket , or buy a horse and take a tour , as he called it ; and though i never told him that i was a fortune , and so did not actually deceive him myself , yet i did encourage the having it thought that i was so , and by that means i was the occasion originally of his mischief .
the surprise of the thing only struck deeper into my thoughts , any gave me stronger reflections than all that had befallen me before . i grieved day and night for him , and the more for that they told me he was the captain of the gang , and that he had committed so many robberies , that hind , or whitney , or the golden farmer were fools to him ; that he would surely be hanged if there were no more men left in the country he was born in ; and that there would abundance of people come in against him .
i was overwhelmed with grief for him ; my own case gave me no disturbance compared to this , and i loaded myself with reproaches on his account . i bewailed his misfortunes , and the ruin he was now come to , at such a rate , that i relished nothing now as i did before , and the first reflections i made upon the horrid , detestable life i had lived began to return upon me , and as these things returned , my abhorrence of the place i was in , and of the way of living in it , returned also ; in a word , i was perfectly changed , and become another body .
while i was under these influences of sorrow for him , came notice to me that the next sessions approaching there would be a bill preferred to the grand jury against me , and that i should be certainly tried for my life at the old bailey .
my temper was touched before , the hardened , wretched boldness of spirit which i had acquired abated , and conscious in the prison , guilt began to flow in upon my mind .
in short , i began to think , and to think is one real advance from hell to heaven . all that hellish , hardened state and temper of soul , which i have said so much of before , is but a deprivation of thought ; he that is restored to his power of thinking , is restored to himself .
as soon as i began , i say , to think , the first think that occurred to me broke out thus : ' lord ! what will become of me ?
i shall certainly die !
i shall be cast , to be sure , and there is nothing beyond that but death !
i have no friends ; what shall i do ?
i shall be certainly cast !
lord , have mercy upon me ! what will become of me ? '
this was a sad thought , you will say , to be the first , after so long a time , that had started into my soul of that kind , and yet even this was nothing but fright at what was to come ; there was not a word of sincere repentance in it all .
however , i was indeed dreadfully dejected , and disconsolate to the last degree ; and as i had no friend in the world to communicate my distressed thoughts to , it lay so heavy upon me , that it threw me into fits and swoonings several times a day .
i sent for my old governess , and she , give her her due , acted the part of a true friend . she left no stone unturned to prevent the grand jury finding the bill . she sought out one or two of the jurymen , talked with them , and endeavoured to possess them with favourable dispositions , on account that nothing was taken away , and no house broken , etc . ; but all would not do , they were over-ruled by the rest ; the two wenches swore home to the fact , and the jury found the bill against me for robbery and house-breaking , that is , for felony and burglary .
i sunk down when they brought me news of it , and after i came to myself again , i thought i should have died with the weight of it .
my governess acted a true mother to me ; she pitied me , she cried with me , and for me , but she could not help me ; and to add to the terror of it , ' twas the discourse all over the house that i should die for it . i could hear them talk it among themselves very often , and see them shake their heads and say they were sorry for it , and the like , as is usual in the place .
but still nobody came to tell me their thoughts , till at last one of the keepers came to me privately , and said with a sigh , ' well , mrs. flanders , you will be tried on friday ' ( this was but a wednesday ) ; ' what do you intend to do ? '
i turned as white as a clout , and said , ' god knows what i shall do ; for my part , i know not what to do . '
'why , ' says he , ' i won 't flatter you , i would have you prepare for death , for i doubt you will be cast ; and as they say you are an old offender , i doubt you will find but little mercy .
they say , ' added he , ' your case is very plain , and that the witnesses swear so home against you , there will be no standing it . '
this was a stab into the very vitals of one under such a burthen as i was oppressed with before , and i could not speak to him a word , good or bad , for a great while ; but at last i burst out into tears , and said to him , ' lord !
mr. ---- , what must i do ? '
'do ! ' says he , ' send for the ordinary ; send for a minister and talk with him ; for , indeed , mrs. flanders , unless you have very good friends , you are no woman for this world . '
this was plain dealing indeed , but it was very harsh to me , at least i thought it so . he left me in the greatest confusion imaginable , and all that night i lay awake .
and now i began to say my prayers , which i had scarce done before since my last husband 's death , or from a little while after . and truly i may well call it saying my prayers , for i was in such a confusion , and had such horror upon my mind , that though i cried , and repeated several times the ordinary expression of ' lord , have mercy upon me ! ' i never brought myself to any sense of my being a miserable sinner , as indeed i was , and of confessing my sins to god , and begging pardon for the sake of jesus christ . i was overwhelmed with the sense of my condition , being tried for my life , and being sure to be condemned , and then i was as sure to be executed , and on this account i cried out all night , ' lord , what will become of me ?
lord ! what shall i do ?
lord ! i shall be hanged !
lord , have mercy upon me ! ' and the like .
my poor afflicted governess was now as much concerned as i , and a great deal more truly penitent , though she had no prospect of being brought to trial and sentence . not but that she deserved it as much as i , and so she said herself ; but she had not done anything herself for many years , other than receiving what i and others stole , and encouraging us to steal it .
but she cried , and took on like a distracted body , wringing her hands , and crying out that she was undone , that she believed there was a curse from heaven upon her , that she should be damned , that she had been the destruction of all her friends , that she had brought such a one , and such a one , and such a one to the gallows ; and there she reckoned up ten or eleven people , some of which i have given account of , that came to untimely ends ; and that now she was the occasion of my ruin , for she had persuaded me to go on , when i would have left off .
i interrupted her there .
'no , mother , no , ' said i , ' don 't speak of that , for you would have had me left off when i got the mercer 's money again , and when i came home from harwich , and i would not hearken to you ; therefore you have not been to blame ; it is i only have ruined myself , i have brought myself to this misery ' ; and thus we spent many hours together .
well , there was no remedy ; the prosecution went on , and on the thursday i was carried down to the sessions-house , where i was arraigned , as they called it , and the next day i was appointed to be tried .
at the arraignment i pleaded ' not guilty , ' and well i might , for i was indicted for felony and burglary ; that is , for feloniously stealing two pieces of brocaded silk , value # 46 , the goods of anthony johnson , and for breaking open his doors ; whereas i knew very well they could not pretend to prove i had broken up the doors , or so much as lifted up a latch .
on the friday i was brought to my trial .
i had exhausted my spirits with crying for two or three days before , so that i slept better the thursday night than i expected , and had more courage for my trial than indeed i thought possible for me to have .
when the trial began , the indictment was read , i would have spoke , but they told me the witnesses must be heard first , and then i should have time to be heard .
the witnesses were the two wenches , a couple of hard-mouthed jades indeed , for though the thing was truth in the main , yet they aggravated it to the utmost extremity , and swore i had the goods wholly in my possession , that i had hid them among my clothes , that i was going off with them , that i had one foot over the threshold when they discovered themselves , and then i put t ' other over , so that i was quite out of the house in the street with the goods before they took hold of me , and then they seized me , and brought me back again , and they took the goods upon me .
the fact in general was all true , but i believe , and insisted upon it , that they stopped me before i had set my foot clear of the threshold of the house . but that did not argue much , for certain it was that i had taken the goods , and i was bringing them away , if i had not been taken .
but i pleaded that i had stole nothing , they had lost nothing , that the door was open , and i went in , seeing the goods lie there , and with design to buy . if , seeing nobody in the house , i had taken any of them up in my hand it could not be concluded that i intended to steal them , for that i never carried them farther than the door to look on them with the better light .
the court would not allow that by any means , and made a kind of a jest of my intending to buy the goods , that being no shop for the selling of anything , and as to carrying them to the door to look at them , the maids made their impudent mocks upon that , and spent their wit upon it very much ; told the court i had looked at them sufficiently , and approved them very well , for i had packed them up under my clothes , and was a-going with them .
in short , i was found guilty of felony , but acquitted of the burglary , which was but small comfort to me , the first bringing me to a sentence of death , and the last would have done no more .
the next day i was carried down to receive the dreadful sentence , and when they came to ask me what i had to say why sentence should not pass , i stood mute a while , but somebody that stood behind me prompted me aloud to speak to the judges , for that they could represent things favourably for me .
this encouraged me to speak , and i told them i had nothing to say to stop the sentence , but that i had much to say to bespeak the mercy of the court ; that i hoped they would allow something in such a case for the circumstances of it ; that i had broken no doors , had carried nothing off ; that nobody had lost anything ; that the person whose goods they were was pleased to say he desired mercy might be shown ( which indeed he very honestly did ) ; that , at the worst , it was the first offence , and that i had never been before any court of justice before ; and , in a word , i spoke with more courage that i thought i could have done , and in such a moving tone , and though with tears , yet not so many tears as to obstruct my speech , that i could see it moved others to tears that heard me .
the judges sat grave and mute , gave me an easy hearing , and time to say all that i would , but , saying neither yes nor no to it , pronounced the sentence of death upon me , a sentence that was to me like death itself , which , after it was read , confounded me . i had no more spirit left in me , i had no tongue to speak , or eyes to look up either to god or man .
my poor governess was utterly disconsolate , and she that was my comforter before , wanted comfort now herself ; and sometimes mourning , sometimes raging , was as much out of herself , as to all outward appearance , as any mad woman in bedlam .
it is rather to be thought of than expressed what was now my condition . i had nothing before me but present death ; and as i had no friends to assist me , or to stir for me , i expected nothing but to find my name in the dead warrant , which was to come down for the execution , the friday afterwards , of five more and myself .
in the meantime my poor distressed governess sent me a minister , who at her request first , and at my own afterwards , came to visit me .
he exhorted me seriously to repent of all my sins , and to dally no longer with my soul ; not flattering myself with hopes of life , which , he said , he was informed there was no room to expect , but unfeignedly to look up to god with my whole soul , and to cry for pardon in the name of jesus christ .
he backed his discourses with proper quotations of scripture , encouraging the greatest sinner to repent , and turn from their evil way , and when he had done , he kneeled down and prayed with me .
it was now that , for the first time , i felt any real signs of repentance . i now began to look back upon my past life with abhorrence , and having a kind of view into the other side of time , and things of life , as i believe they do with everybody at such a time , began to look with a different aspect , and quite another shape , than they did before .
the greatest and best things , the views of felicity , the joy , the griefs of life , were quite other things ; and i had nothing in my thoughts but what was so infinitely superior to what i had known in life , that it appeared to me to be the greatest stupidity in nature to lay any weight upon anything , though the most valuable in this world .
the word eternity represented itself with all its incomprehensible additions , and i had such extended notions of it , that i know not how to express them .
the good gentleman was so moved also in my behalf with a view of the influence which he saw these things had on me , that he blessed god he had come to visit me , and resolved not to leave me till the last moment ; that is , not to leave visiting me .
it was no less than twelve days after our receiving sentence before any were ordered for execution , and then upon a wednesday the dead warrant , as they call it , came down , and i found my name was among them .
a terrible blow this was to my new resolutions ; indeed my heart sank within me , and i swooned away twice , one after another , but spoke not a word .
the good minister was sorely afflicted for me , and did what he could to comfort me with the same arguments , and the same moving eloquence that he did before , and left me not that evening so long as the prisonkeepers would suffer him to stay in the prison , unless he would be locked up with me all night , which he was not willing to be .
i wondered much that i did not see him all the next day , it being the day before the time appointed for execution ; and i was greatly discouraged , and dejected in my mind , and indeed almost sank for want of the comfort which he had so often , and with such success , yielded me on his former visits .
i waited with great impatience , and under the greatest oppressions of spirits imaginable , till about four o 'clock he came to my apartment ; for i had obtained the favour , by the help of money , nothing being to be done in that place without it , not to be kept in the condemned hole , as they call it , among the rest of the prisoners who were to die , but to have a little dirty chamber to myself .
my heart leaped within me for joy when i heard his voice at the door , even before i saw him ; but let any one judge what kind of motion i found in my soul , when after having made a short excuse for his not coming , he showed me that his time had been employed on my account ; that he had obtained a favourable report from the recorder to the secretary of state in my particular case , and , in short , that he had brought me a reprieve .
he used all the caution that he was able in letting me know a thing which it would have been a double cruelty to have concealed ; and yet it was too much for me ; for as grief had overset me before , so did joy overset me now , and i fell into a much more dangerous swooning than i did at first , and it was not without a great difficulty that i was recovered at all .
the next morning there was a sad scene indeed in the prison .
the first thing i was saluted with in the morning was the tolling of the great bell at st. sepulchre 's , as they call it , which ushered in the day .
as soon as it began to toll , a dismal groaning and crying was heard from the condemned hole , where there lay six poor souls who were to be executed that day , some from one crime , some for another , and two of them for murder .
this was followed by a confused clamour in the house , among the several sorts of prisoners , expressing their awkward sorrows for the poor creatures that were to die , but in a manner extremely differing one from another . some cried for them ; some huzzaed , and wished them a good journey ; some damned and cursed those that had brought them to it--that is , meaning the evidence , or prosecutors--many pitying them , and some few , but very few , praying for them .
there was hardly room for so much composure of mind as was required for me to bless the merciful providence that had , as it were , snatched me out of the jaws of this destruction . i remained , as it were , dumb and silent , overcome with the sense of it , and not able to express what i had in my heart ; for the passions on such occasions as these are certainly so agitated as not to be able presently to regulate their own motions .
all the while the poor condemned creatures were preparing to their death , and the ordinary , as they call him , was busy with them , disposing them to submit to their sentence--i say , all this while i was seized with a fit of trembling , as much as i could have been if i had been in the same condition , as to be sure the day before i expected to be ; i was so violently agitated by this surprising fit , that i shook as if it had been in the cold fit of an ague , so that i could not speak or look but like one distracted .
as soon as they were all put into carts and gone , which , however , i had not courage enough to see--i say , as soon as they were gone , i fell into a fit of crying involuntarily , and without design , but as a mere distemper , and yet so violent , and it held me so long , that i knew not what course to take , nor could i stop , or put a check to it , no , not with all the strength and courage i had .
this fit of crying held me near two hours , and , as i believe , held me till they were all out of the world , and then a most humble , penitent , serious kind of joy succeeded ; a real transport it was , or passion of joy and thankfulness , but still unable to give vent to it by words , and in this i continued most part of the day .
it was about a fortnight after this that i had some just apprehensions that i should be included in the next dead warrant at the ensuing sessions ; and it was not without great difficulty , and at last a humble petition for transportation , that i avoided it , so ill was i beholding to fame , and so prevailing was the fatal report of being an old offender ; though in that they did not do me strict justice , for i was not in the sense of the law an old offender , whatever i was in the eye of the judge , for i had never been before them in a judicial way before ; so the judges could not charge me with being an old offender , but the recorder was pleased to represent my case as he thought fit .
i had now a certainty of life indeed , but with the hard conditions of being ordered for transportation , which indeed was hard condition in itself , but not when comparatively considered ; and therefore i shall make no comments upon the sentence , nor upon the choice i was put to .
we shall all choose anything rather than death , especially when ' tis attended with an uncomfortable prospect beyond it , which was my case . the good minister , whose interest , though a stranger to me , had obtained me the reprieve , mourned sincerely for this part .
i have not for a good while mentioned my governess , who had during most , if not all , of this part been dangerously sick , and being in as near a view of death by her disease as i was by my sentence , was a great penitent--i say , i have not mentioned her , nor indeed did i see her in all this time ; but being now recovering , and just able to come abroad , she came to see me .
i told her my condition , and what a different flux and reflux of tears and hopes i had been agitated with ; i told her what i had escaped , and upon what terms ; and she was present when the minister expressed his fears of my relapsing into wickedness upon my falling into the wretched companies that are generally transported .
indeed i had a melancholy reflection upon it in my own mind , for i knew what a dreadful gang was always sent away together , and i said to my governess that the good minister 's fears were not without cause .
'well , well , ' says she , ' but i hope you will not be tempted with such a horrid example as that . '
and as soon as the minister was gone , she told me she would not have me discouraged , for perhaps ways and means might be found out to dispose of me in a particular way , by myself , of which she would talk further to me afterward .
i looked earnestly at her , and i thought she looked more cheerful than she usually had done , and i entertained immediately a thousand notions of being delivered , but could not for my life image the methods , or think of one that was in the least feasible ; but i was too much concerned in it to let her go from me without explaining herself , which , though she was very loth to do , yet my importunity prevailed , and , while i was still pressing , she answered me in a few words , thus : ' why , you have money , have you not ?
did you ever know one in your life that was transported and had a hundred pounds in his pocket , i 'll warrant you , child ? ' says she .
i understood her presently , but told her i would leave all that to her , but i saw no room to hope for anything but a strict execution of the order , and as it was a severity that was esteemed a mercy , there was no doubt but it would be strictly observed .
she said no more but this : ' we will try what can be done , ' and so we parted for that night .
i lay in the prison near fifteen weeks after this order for transportation was signed . what the reason of it was , i know not , but at the end of this time i was put on board of a ship in the thames , and with me a gang of thirteen as hardened vile creatures as ever newgate produced in my time ; and it would really well take up a history longer than mine to describe the degrees of impudence and audacious villainy that those thirteen were arrived to , and the manner of their behaviour in the voyage ; of which i have a very diverting account by me , which the captain of the ship who carried them over gave me the minutes of , and which he caused his mate to write down at large .
it may perhaps be thought trifling to enter here into a relation of all the little incidents which attended me in this interval of my circumstances ; i mean , between the final order of my transportation and the time of my going on board the ship ; and i am too near the end of my story to allow room for it ; but something relating to me and my lancashire husband i must not omit .
he had , as i have observed already , been carried from the master 's side of the ordinary prison into the press-yard , with three of his comrades , for they found another to add to them after some time ; here , for what reason i knew not , they were kept in custody without being brought to trial almost three months .
it seems they found means to bribe or buy off some of those who were expected to come in against them , and they wanted evidence for some time to convict them .
after some puzzle on this account , at first they made a shift to get proof enough against two of them to carry them off ; but the other two , of which my lancashire husband was one , lay still in suspense .
they had , i think , one positive evidence against each of them , but the law strictly obliging them to have two witnesses , they could make nothing of it . yet it seems they were resolved not to part with the men neither , not doubting but a further evidence would at last come in ; and in order to this , i think publication was made , that such prisoners being taken , any one that had been robbed by them might come to the prison and see them .
i took this opportunity to satisfy my curiosity , pretending that i had been robbed in the dunstable coach , and that i would go to see the two highwaymen . but when i came into the press-yard , i so disguised myself , and muffled my face up so , that he could see little of me , and consequently knew nothing of who i was ; and when i came back , i said publicly that i knew them very well .
immediately it was rumoured all over the prison that moll flanders would turn evidence against one of the highwaymen , and that i was to come off by it from the sentence of transportation .
they heard of it , and immediately my husband desired to see this mrs. flanders that knew him so well , and was to be an evidence against him ; and accordingly i had leave given to go to him .
i dressed myself up as well as the best clothes that i suffered myself ever to appear in there would allow me , and went to the press-yard , but had for some time a hood over my face . he said little to me at first , but asked me if i knew him . i told him , yes , very well ; but as i concealed my face , so i counterfeited my voice , that he had not the least guess at who i was .
he asked me where i had seen him . i told him between dunstable and brickhill ; but turning to the keeper that stood by , i asked if i might not be admitted to talk with him alone .
he said yes , yes , as much as i pleased , and so very civilly withdrew .
as soon as he was gone , i had shut the door , i threw off my hood , and bursting out into tears , ' my dear , ' says i , ' do you not know me ? '
he turned pale , and stood speechless , like one thunderstruck , and , not able to conquer the surprise , said no more but this , ' let me sit down ' ; and sitting down by a table , he laid his elbow upon the table , and leaning his head on his hand , fixed his eyes on the ground as one stupid .
i cried so vehemently , on the other hand , that it was a good while ere i could speak any more ; but after i had given some vent to my passion by tears , i repeated the same words , ' my dear , do you not know me ? '
at which he answered , yes , and said no more a good while .
after some time continuing in the surprise , as above , he cast up his eyes towards me and said , ' how could you be so cruel ? '
i did not readily understand what he meant ; and i answered , ' how can you call me cruel ?
what have i been cruel to you in ? '
'to come to me , ' says he , ' in such a place as this , is it not to insult me ?
i have not robbed you , at least not on the highway . '
i perceived by this that he knew nothing of the miserable circumstances i was in , and thought that , having got some intelligence of his being there , i had come to upbraid him with his leaving me .
but i had too much to say to him to be affronted , and told him in few words , that i was far from coming to insult him , but at best i came to condole mutually ; that he would be easily satisfied that i had no such view , when i should tell him that my condition was worse than his , and that many ways .
he looked a little concerned at the general expression of my condition being worse than his , but , with a kind smile , looked a little wildly , and said , ' how can that be ?
when you see me fettered , and in newgate , and two of my companions executed already , can you can your condition is worse than mine ? '
'come , my dear , ' says i , ' we have a long piece of work to do , if i should be to relate , or you to hear , my unfortunate history ; but if you are disposed to hear it , you will soon conclude with me that my condition is worse than yours . '
'how is that possible , ' says he again , ' when i expect to be cast for my life the very next sessions ? '
'yes , says i , " tis very possible , when i shall tell you that i have been cast for my life three sessions ago , and am under sentence of death ; is not my case worse than yours ? '
then indeed , he stood silent again , like one struck dumb , and after a while he starts up .
'unhappy couple ! ' says he . ' how can this be possible ? '
i took him by the hand .
'come , my dear , ' said i , ' sit down , and let us compare our sorrows . i am a prisoner in this very house , and in much worse circumstances than you , and you will be satisfied i do not come to insult you , when i tell you the particulars . '
any with this we sat down together , and i told him so much of my story as i thought was convenient , bringing it at last to my being reduced to great poverty , and representing myself as fallen into some company that led me to relieve my distresses by way that i had been utterly unacquainted with , and that they making an attempt at a tradesman 's house , i was seized upon for having been but just at the door , the maid-servant pulling me in ; that i neither had broke any lock nor taken anything away , and that notwithstanding that , i was brought in guilty and sentenced to die ; but that the judges , having been made sensible of the hardship of my circumstances , had obtained leave to remit the sentence upon my consenting to be transported .
i told him i fared the worse for being taken in the prison for one moll flanders , who was a famous successful thief , that all of them had heard of , but none of them had ever seen ; but that , as he knew well , was none of my name .
but i placed all to the account of my ill fortune , and that under this name i was dealt with as an old offender , though this was the first thing they had ever known of me .
i gave him a long particular of things that had befallen me since i saw him , but i told him if i had seen him since he might think i had , and then gave him an account how i had seen him at brickhill ; how furiously he was pursued , and how , by giving an account that i knew him , and that he was a very honest gentleman , one mr. ---- , the hue-and-cry was stopped , and the high constable went back again .
he listened most attentively to all my story , and smiled at most of the particulars , being all of them petty matters , and infinitely below what he had been at the head of ; but when i came to the story of brickhill , he was surprised .
'and was it you , my dear , ' said he , ' that gave the check to the mob that was at our heels there , at brickhill ? '
'yes , ' said i , ' it was i indeed . ' and then i told him the particulars which i had observed him there .
'why , then , ' said he , ' it was you that saved my life at that time , and i am glad i owe my life to you , for i will pay the debt to you now , and i 'll deliver you from the present condition you are in , or i will die in the attempt . '
i told him , by no means ; it was a risk too great , not worth his running the hazard of , and for a life not worth his saving .
'twas no matter for that , he said , it was a life worth all the world to him ; a life that had given him a new life ; ' for , ' says he , ' i was never in real danger of being taken , but that time , till the last minute when i was taken . '
indeed , he told me his danger then lay in his believing he had not been pursued that way ; for they had gone from hockey quite another way , and had come over the enclosed country into brickhill , not by the road , and were sure they had not been seen by anybody .
here he gave me a long history of his life , which indeed would make a very strange history , and be infinitely diverting . he told me he took to the road about twelve years before he married me ; that the woman which called him brother was not really his sister , or any kin to him , but one that belonged to their gang , and who , keeping correspondence with him , lived always in town , having good store of acquaintance ; that she gave them a perfect intelligence of persons going out of town , and that they had made several good booties by her correspondence ; that she thought she had fixed a fortune for him when she brought me to him , but happened to be disappointed , which he really could not blame her for ; that if it had been his good luck that i had had the estate , which she was informed i had , he had resolved to leave off the road and live a retired , sober live but never to appear in public till some general pardon had been passed , or till he could , for money , have got his name into some particular pardon , that so he might have been perfectly easy ; but that , as it had proved otherwise , he was obliged to put off his equipage and take up the old trade again .
he gave me a long account of some of his adventures , and particularly one when he robbed the west chester coaches near lichfield , when he got a very great booty ; and after that , how he robbed five graziers , in the west , going to burford fair in wiltshire to buy sheep . he told me he got so much money on those two occasions , that if he had known where to have found me , he would certainly have embraced my proposal of going with me to virginia , or to have settled in a plantation on some other parts of the english colonies in america .
he told me he wrote two or three letters to me , directed according to my order , but heard nothing from me .
this i indeed knew to be true , but the letters coming to my hand in the time of my latter husband , i could do nothing in it , and therefore chose to give no answer , that so he might rather believe they had miscarried .
i then inquired into the circumstances of his present case at that time , and what it was he expected when he came to be tried .
he told me that they had no evidence against him , or but very little ; for that of three robberies , which they were all charged with , it was his good fortune that he was but in one of them , and that there was but one witness to be had for that fact , which was not sufficient , but that it was expected some others would come in against him ; that he thought indeed , when he first saw me , that i had been one that came of that errand ; but that if somebody came in against him , he hoped he should be cleared ; that he had had some intimation , that if he would submit to transport himself , he might be admitted to it without a trial , but that he could not think of it with any temper , and thought he could much easier submit to be hanged .
i blamed him for that , and told him i blamed him on two accounts ; first , because if he was transported , there might be a hundred ways for him that was a gentleman , and a bold enterprising man , to find his way back again , and perhaps some ways and means to come back before he went .
he smiled at that part , and said he should like the last the best of the two , for he had a kind of horror upon his mind at his being sent over to the plantations , as romans sent condemned slaves to work in the mines ; that he thought the passage into another state , let it be what it would , much more tolerable at the gallows , and that this was the general notion of all the gentlemen who were driven by the exigence of their fortunes to take the road ; that at the place of execution there was at least an end of all the miseries of the present state , and as for what was to follow , a man was , in his opinion , as likely to repent sincerely in the last fortnight of his life , under the pressures and agonies of a jail and the condemned hole , as he would ever be in the woods and wilderness of america ; that servitude and hard labour were things gentlemen could never stoop to ; that it was but the way to force them to be their own executioners afterwards , which was much worse ; and that therefore he could not have any patience when he did but think of being transported .
i used the utmost of my endeavour to persuade him , and joined that known woman 's rhetoric to it--i mean , that of tears .
i told him the infamy of a public execution was certainly a greater pressure upon the spirits of a gentleman than any of the mortifications that he could meet with abroad could be ; that he had at least in the other a chance for his life , whereas here he had none at all ; that it was the easiest thing in the world for him to manage the captain of a ship , who were , generally speaking , men of good-humour and some gallantry ; and a small matter of conduct , especially if there was any money to be had , would make way for him to buy himself off when he came to virginia .
he looked wistfully at me , and i thought i guessed at what he meant , that is to say , that he had no money ; but i was mistaken , his meaning was another way .
'you hinted just now , my dear , ' said he , ' that there might be a way of coming back before i went , by which i understood you that it might be possible to buy it off here .
i had rather give # 200 to prevent going , than # 100 to be set at liberty when i came there . '
'that is , my dear , ' said i , ' because you do not know the place so well as i do . '
'that may be , ' said he ; ' and yet i believe , as well as you know it , you would do the same , unless it is because , as you told me , you have a mother there . '
i told him , as to my mother , it was next to impossible but that she must be dead many years before ; and as for any other relations that i might have there , i knew them not now ; that since the misfortunes i had been under had reduced me to the condition i had been in for some years , i had not kept up any correspondence with them ; and that he would easily believe , i should find but a cold reception from them if i should be put to make my first visit in the condition of a transported felon ; that therefore , if i went thither , i resolved not to see them ; but that i had many views in going there , if it should be my fate , which took off all the uneasy part of it ; and if he found himself obliged to go also , i should easily instruct him how to manage himself , so as never to go a servant at all , especially since i found he was not destitute of money , which was the only friend in such a condition .
he smiled , and said he did not tell me he had money .
i took him up short , and told him i hoped he did not understand by my speaking , that i should expect any supply from him if he had money ; that , on the other hand , though i had not a great deal , yet i did not want , and while i had any i would rather add to him than weaken him in that article , seeing , whatever he had , i knew in the case of transportation he would have occasion of it all .
he expressed himself in a most tender manner upon that head .
he told me what money he had was not a great deal , but that he would never hide any of it from me if i wanted it , and that he assured me he did not speak with any such apprehensions ; that he was only intent upon what i had hinted to him before he went ; that here he knew what to do with himself , but that there he should be the most ignorant , helpless wretch alive .
i told him he frighted and terrified himself with that which had no terror in it ; that if he had money , as i was glad to hear he had , he might not only avoid the servitude supposed to be the consequence of transportation , but begin the world upon a new foundation , and that such a one as he could not fail of success in , with the common application usual in such cases ; that he could not but call to mind that is was what i had recommended to him many years before and had proposed it for our mutual subsistence and restoring our fortunes in the world ; and i would tell him now , that to convince him both of the certainty of it and of my being fully acquainted with the method , and also fully satisfied in the probability of success , he should first see me deliver myself from the necessity of going over at all , and then that i would go with him freely , and of my own choice , and perhaps carry enough with me to satisfy him that i did not offer it for want of being able to live without assistance from him , but that i thought our mutual misfortunes had been such as were sufficient to reconcile us both to quitting this part of the world , and living where nobody could upbraid us with what was past , or we be in any dread of a prison , and without agonies of a condemned hole to drive us to it ; this where we should look back on all our past disasters with infinite satisfaction , when we should consider that our enemies should entirely forget us , and that we should live as new people in a new world , nobody having anything to say to us , or we to them .
i pressed this home to him with so many arguments , and answered all his own passionate objections so effectually that he embraced me , and told me i treated him with such sincerity and affection as overcame him ; that he would take my advice , and would strive to submit to his fate in hope of having the comfort of my assistance , and of so faithful a counsellor and such a companion in his misery . but still he put me in mind of what i had mentioned before , namely , that there might be some way to get off before he went , and that it might be possible to avoid going at all , which he said would be much better .
we parted after this long conference with such testimonies of kindness and affection as i thought were equal , if not superior , to that at our parting at dunstable ; and now i saw more plainly than before , the reason why he declined coming at that time any farther with me toward london than dunstable , and why , when we parted there , he told me it was not convenient for him to come part of the way to london to bring me going , as he would otherwise have done .
at last , with much difficulty , he gave his consent ; and as he was not therefore admitted to transportation in court , and on his petition , as i was , so he found himself under a difficulty to avoid embarking himself as i had said he might have done ; his great friend , who was his intercessor for the favour of that grant , having given security for him that he should transport himself , and not return within the term .
the time of my being transported according to my sentence was near at hand ; my governess , who continued my fast friend , had tried to obtain a pardon , but it could not be done unless with an expense too heavy for my purse , considering that to be left naked and empty , unless i had resolved to return to my old trade again , had been worse than my transportation , because there i knew i could live , here i could not .
it was in the month of february that i was , with seven other convicts , as they called us , delivered to a merchant that traded to virginia , on board a ship , riding , as they called it , in deptford reach . the officer of the prison delivered us on board , and the master of the vessel gave a discharge for us .
we were for that night clapped under hatches , and kept so close that i thought i should have been suffocated for want of air ; and the next morning the ship weighed , and fell down the river to a place they call bugby 's hole , which was done , as they told us , by the agreement of the merchant , that all opportunity of escape should be taken from us .
however , when the ship came thither and cast anchor , we were allowed more liberty , and particularly were permitted to come up on the deck , but not up on the quarter-deck , that being kept particularly for the captain and for passengers .
when by the noise of the men over my head , and the motion of the ship , i perceived that they were under sail , i was at first greatly surprised , fearing we should go away directly , and that our friends would not be admitted to see us any more ; but i was easy soon after , when i found they had come to an anchor again , and soon after that we had notice given by some of the men where we were , that the next morning we should have the liberty to come up on deck , and to have our friends come and see us if we had any .
all that night i lay upon the hard boards of the deck , as the passengers did , but we had afterwards the liberty of little cabins for such of us as had any bedding to lay in them , and room to stow any box or trunk for clothes and linen , if we had it ( which might well be put in ) , for some of them had neither shirt nor shift or a rag of linen or woollen , but what was on their backs , or a farthing of money to help themselves ; and yet i did not find but they fared well enough in the ship , especially the women , who got money from the seamen for washing their clothes , sufficient to purchase any common things that they wanted .
when the next morning we had the liberty to come up on the deck , i asked one of the officers of the ship , whether i might not have the liberty to send a letter on shore , to let my friends know where the ship lay , and to get some necessary things sent to me .
this was , it seems , the boatswain , a very civil , courteous sort of man , who told me i should have that , or any other liberty that i desired , that he could allow me with safety . i told him i desired no other ; and he answered that the ship 's boat would go up to london the next tide , and he would order my letter to be carried .
accordingly , when the boat went off , the boatswain came to me and told me the boat was going off , and that he went in it himself , and asked me if my letter was ready he would take care of it .
i had prepared myself , you may be sure , pen , ink , and paper beforehand , and i had gotten a letter ready directed to my governess , and enclosed another for my fellow-prisoner , which , however , i did not let her know was my husband , not to the last .
in that to my governess , i let her know where the ship lay , and pressed her earnestly to send me what things i knew she had got ready for me for my voyage .
when i gave the boatswain the letter , i gave him a shilling with it , which i told him was for the charge of a messenger or porter , which i entreated him to send with the letter as soon as he came on shore , that if possible i might have an answer brought back by the same hand , that i might know what was become of my things ; ' for sir , ' says i , ' if the ship should go away before i have them on board , i am undone . '
i took care , when i gave him the shilling , to let him see that i had a little better furniture about me than the ordinary prisoners , for he saw that i had a purse , and in it a pretty deal of money ; and i found that the very sight of it immediately furnished me with very different treatment from what i should otherwise have met with in the ship ; for though he was very courteous indeed before , in a kind of natural compassion to me , as a woman in distress , yet he was more than ordinarily so afterwards , and procured me to be better treated in the ship than , i say , i might otherwise have been ; as shall appear in its place .
he very honestly had my letter delivered to my governess 's own hands , and brought me back an answer from her in writing ; and when he gave me the answer , gave me the shilling again .
'there , ' says he , ' there 's your shilling again too , for i delivered the letter myself . '
i could not tell what to say , i was so surprised at the thing ; but after some pause , i said , ' sir , you are too kind ; it had been but reasonable that you had paid yourself coach-hire , then . '
'no , no , ' says he , ' i am overpaid .
what is the gentlewoman ?
your sister . '
'no , sir , ' says i , ' she is no relation to me , but she is a dear friend , and all the friends i have in the world . '
'well , ' says he , ' there are few such friends in the world .
why , she cried after you like a child , ' ' ay , ' says i again , ' she would give a hundred pounds , i believe , to deliver me from this dreadful condition i am in . '
'would she so ? ' says he . ' for half the money i believe i could put you in a way how to deliver yourself . '
but this he spoke softly , that nobody could hear .
'alas ! sir , ' said i , ' but then that must be such a deliverance as , if i should be taken again , would cost me my life . '
'nay , ' said he , ' if you were once out of the ship , you must look to yourself afterwards ; that i can say nothing to . '
so we dropped the discourse for that time .
in the meantime , my governess , faithful to the last moment , conveyed my letter to the prison to my husband , and got an answer to it , and the next day came down herself to the ship , bringing me , in the first place , a sea-bed as they call it , and all its furniture , such as was convenient , but not to let the people think it was extraordinary . she brought with her a sea-chest--that is , a chest , such as are made for seamen , with all the conveniences in it , and filled with everything almost that i could want ; and in one of the corners of the chest , where there was a private drawer , was my bank of money--this is to say , so much of it as i had resolved to carry with me ; for i ordered a part of my stock to be left behind me , to be sent afterwards in such goods as i should want when i came to settle ; for money in that country is not of much use where all things are brought for tobacco , much more is it a great loss to carry it from hence .
but my case was particular ; it was by no means proper to me to go thither without money or goods , and for a poor convict , that was to be sold as soon as i came on shore , to carry with me a cargo of goods would be to have notice taken of it , and perhaps to have them seized by the public ; so i took part of my stock with me thus , and left the other part with my governess .
my governess brought me a great many other things , but it was not proper for me to look too well provided in the ship , at least till i knew what kind of a captain we should have .
when she came into the ship , i thought she would have died indeed ; her heart sank at the sight of me , and at the thoughts of parting with me in that condition , and she cried so intolerably , i could not for a long time have any talk with her .
i took that time to read my fellow-prisoner 's letter , which , however , greatly perplexed me .
he told me was determined to go , but found it would be impossible for him to be discharged time enough for going in the same ship , and which was more than all , he began to question whether they would give him leave to go in what ship he pleased , though he did voluntarily transport himself ; but that they would see him put on board such a ship as they should direct , and that he would be charged upon the captain as other convict prisoners were ; so that he began to be in despair of seeing me till he came to virginia , which made him almost desperate ; seeing that , on the other hand , if i should not be there , if any accident of the sea or of mortality should take me away , he should be the most undone creature there in the world .
this was very perplexing , and i knew not what course to take . i told my governess the story of the boatswain , and she was mighty eager with me treat with him ; but i had no mind to it , till i heard whether my husband , or fellow-prisoner , so she called him , could be at liberty to go with me or no .
at last i was forced to let her into the whole matter , except only that of his being my husband . i told her i had made a positive bargain or agreement with him to go , if he could get the liberty of going in the same ship , and that i found he had money .
then i read a long lecture to her of what i proposed to do when we came there , how we could plant , settle , and , in short , grow rich without any more adventures ; and , as a great secret , i told her that we were to marry as soon as he came on board .
she soon agreed cheerfully to my going when she heard this , and she made it her business from that time to get him out of the prison in time , so that he might go in the same ship with me , which at last was brought to pass , though with great difficulty , and not without all the forms of a transported prisoner-convict , which he really was not yet , for he had not been tried , and which was a great mortification to him .
as our fate was now determined , and we were both on board , actually bound to virginia , in the despicable quality of transported convicts destined to be sold for slaves , i for five years , and he under bonds and security not to return to england any more , as long as he lived , he was very much dejected and cast down ; the mortification of being brought on board , as he was , like a prisoner , piqued him very much , since it was first told him he should transport himself , and so that he might go as a gentleman at liberty . it is true he was not ordered to be sold when he came there , as we were , and for that reason he was obliged to pay for his passage to the captain , which we were not ; as to the rest , he was as much at a loss as a child what to do with himself , or with what he had , but by directions .
our first business was to compare our stock . he was very honest to me , and told me his stock was pretty good when he came into the prison , but the living there as he did in a figure like a gentleman , and , which was ten times as much , the making of friends , and soliciting his case , had been very expensive ; and , in a word , all his stock that he had left was # 108 , which he had about him all in gold .
i gave him an account of my stock as faithfully , that is to say , of what i had taken to carry with me , for i was resolved , whatever should happen , to keep what i had left with my governess in reserve ; that in case i should die , what i had with me was enough to give him , and that which was left in my governess 's hands would be her own , which she had well deserved of me indeed .
my stock which i had with me was # 246 some odd shillings ; so that we had # 354 between us , but a worse gotten estate was scarce ever put together to being the world with .
our greatest misfortune as to our stock was that it was all in money , which every one knows is an unprofitable cargo to be carried to the plantations . i believe his was really all he had left in the world , as he told me it was ; but i , who had between # 700 and # 800 in bank when this disaster befell me , and who had one of the faithfullest friends in the world to manage it for me , considering she was a woman of manner of religious principles , had still # 300 left in her hand , which i reserved as above ; besides , some very valuable things , as particularly two gold watches , some small pieces of plate , and some rings--all stolen goods .
the plate , rings , and watches were put in my chest with the money , and with this fortune , and in the sixty-first year of my age , i launched out into a new world , as i may call it , in the condition ( as to what appeared ) only of a poor , naked convict , ordered to be transported in respite from the gallows . my clothes were poor and mean , but not ragged or dirty , and none knew in the whole ship that i had anything of value about me .
however , as i had a great many very good clothes and linen in abundance , which i had ordered to be packed up in two great boxes , i had them shipped on board , not as my goods , but as consigned to my real name in virginia ; and had the bills of loading signed by a captain in my pocket ; and in these boxes was my plate and watches , and everything of value except my money , which i kept by itself in a private drawer in my chest , which could not be found , or opened , if found , with splitting the chest to pieces .
the ship began now to fill ; several passengers came on board , who were embarked on no criminal account , and these had accommodations assigned them in the great cabin , and other parts of the ship , whereas we , as convicts , were thrust down below , i know not where .
but when my husband came on board , i spoke to the boatswain , who had so early given me hints of his friendship in carrying my letter . i told him he had befriended me in many things , and i had not made any suitable return to him , and with that i put a guinea into his hand . i told him that my husband was now come on board ; that though we were both under the present misfortune , yet we had been persons of a different character from the wretched crew that we came with , and desired to know of him , whether the captain might not be moved to admit us to some conveniences in the ship , for which we would make him what satisfaction he pleased , and that we would gratify him for his pains in procuring this for us .
he took the guinea , as i could see , with great satisfaction , and assured me of his assistance .
then he told us he did not doubt but that the captain , who was one of the best-humoured gentlemen in the world , would be easily brought to accommodate us as well as we could desire , and , to make me easy , told me he would go up the next tide on purpose to speak to the captain about it .
the next morning , happening to sleep a little longer than ordinary , when i got up , and began to look abroad , i saw the boatswain among the men in his ordinary business . i was a little melancholy at seeing him there , and going forward to speak to him , he saw me , and came towards me , but not giving him time to speak first , i said , smiling , ' i doubt , sir , you have forgot us , for i see you are very busy . '
he returned presently , ' come along with me , and you shall see . '
so he took me into the great cabin , and there sat a good sort of a gentlemanly man for a seaman , writing , and with a great many papers before him .
'here , ' says the boatswain to him that was a-writing , ' is the gentlewoman that the captain spoke to you of ' ; and turning to me , he said , ' i have been so far from forgetting your business , that i have been up at the captain 's house , and have represented faithfully to the captain what you said , relating to you being furnished with better conveniences for yourself and your husband ; and the captain has sent this gentleman , who is made of the ship , down with me , on purpose to show you everything , and to accommodate you fully to your content , and bid me assure you that you shall not be treated like what you were at first expected to be , but with the same respect as other passengers are treated . '
the mate then spoke to me , and , not giving me time to thank the boatswain for his kindness , confirmed what the boatswain had said , and added that it was the captain 's delight to show himself kind and charitable , especially to those that were under any misfortunes , and with that he showed me several cabins built up , some in the great cabin , and some partitioned off , out of the steerage , but opening into the great cabin on purpose for the accommodation of passengers , and gave me leave to choose where i would .
however , i chose a cabin which opened into the steerage , in which was very good conveniences to set our chest and boxes , and a table to eat on .
the mate then told me that the boatswain had given so good a character of me and my husband , as to our civil behaviour , that he had orders to tell me we should eat with him , if we thought fit , during the whole voyage , on the common terms of passengers ; that we might lay in some fresh provisions , if we pleased ; or if not , he should lay in his usual store , and we should have share with him .
this was very reviving news to me , after so many hardships and afflictions as i had gone through of late . i thanked him , and told him the captain should make his own terms with us , and asked him leave to go and tell my husband of it , who was not very well , and was not yet out of his cabin .
accordingly i went , and my husband , whose spirits were still so much sunk with the indignity ( as he understood it ) offered him , that he was scare yet himself , was so revived with the account that i gave him of the reception we were like to have in the ship , that he was quite another man , and new vigour and courage appeared in his very countenance . so true is it , that the greatest of spirits , when overwhelmed by their afflictions , are subject to the greatest dejections , and are the most apt to despair and give themselves up .
after some little pause to recover himself , my husband came up with me , and gave the mate thanks for the kindness , which he had expressed to us , and sent suitable acknowledgment by him to the captain , offering to pay him by advance , whatever he demanded for our passage , and for the conveniences he had helped us to .
the mate told him that the captain would be on board in the afternoon , and that he would leave all that till he came .
accordingly , in the afternoon the captain came , and we found him the same courteous , obliging man that the boatswain had represented him to be ; and he was so well pleased with my husband 's conversation , that , in short , he would not let us keep the cabin we had chosen , but gave us one that , as i said before , opened into the great cabin . nor were his conditions exorbitant , or the man craving and eager to make a prey of us , but for fifteen guineas we had our whole passage and provisions and cabin , ate at the captain 's table , and were very handsomely entertained .
all this while i had provided nothing for our assistance when we should come to the place and begin to call ourselves planters ; and i was far from being ignorant of what was needful on that occasion ; particularly all sorts of tools for the planter 's work , and for building ; and all kinds of furniture for our dwelling , which , if to be bought in the country , must necessarily cost double the price .
so i discoursed that point with my governess , and she went and waited upon the captain , and told him that she hoped ways might be found out for her two unfortunate cousins , as she called us , to obtain our freedom when we came into the country , and so entered into a discourse with him about the means and terms also , of which i shall say more in its place ; and after thus sounding the captain , she let him know , though we were unhappy in the circumstances that occasioned our going , yet that we were not unfurnished to set ourselves to work in the country , and we resolved to settle and live there as planters , if we might be put in a way how to do it .
the captain readily offered his assistance , told her the method of entering upon such business , and how easy , nay , how certain it was for industrious people to recover their fortunes in such a manner . ' madam , ' says he , " tis no reproach to any many in that country to have been sent over in worse circumstances than i perceive your cousins are in , provided they do but apply with diligence and good judgment to the business of that place when they come there . '
and then she begged his assistance in it . she told him she would furnish us with everything that was convenient whatever it cost her . he accordingly gave her a long particular of things necessary for a planter , which , by his account , came to about fourscore or a hundred pounds .
and , in short , she went about as dexterously to buy them , as if she had been an old virginia merchant ; only that she bought , by my direction , above twice as much of everything as he had given her a list of .
these she put on board in her own name , took his bills of loading for them , and endorsed those bills of loading to my husband , insuring the cargo afterwards in her own name , by our order ; so that we were provided for all events , and for all disasters .
i should have told you that my husband gave her all his whole stock of # 108 , which , as i have said , he had about him in gold , to lay out thus , and i gave her a good sum besides ; so that i did not break into the stock which i had left in her hands at all , but after we had sorted out our whole cargo , we had yet near # 200 in money , which was more than enough for our purpose .
in this condition , very cheerful , and indeed joyful at being so happily accommodated as we were , we set sail from bugby 's hole to gravesend , where the ship lay about ten more days , and where the captain came on board for good and all .
here the captain offered us a civility , which indeed we had no reason to expect , namely , to let us go on shore and refresh ourselves , upon giving our words in a solemn manner that we would not go from him , and that we would return peaceably on board again .
indeed , the captain had assurance enough of our resolutions to go , for that having made such provision to settle there , it did not seem rational that we would choose to remain here at the expense and peril of life , for such it must have been if we had been taken again .
in a word , we went all on shore with the captain , and supped together in gravesend , where we were very merry , stayed all night , lay at the house where we supped , and came all very honestly on board again with him in the morning .
here we bought ten dozen bottles of good beer , some wine , some fowls , and such things as we thought might be acceptable on board .
my governess was with us all this while , and went with us round into the downs , as did also the captain 's wife , with whom she went back .
i was never so sorrowful at parting with my own mother as i was at parting with her , and i never saw her more .
we had a fair easterly wind sprung up the third day after we came to the downs , and we sailed from thence the 10th of april . nor did we touch any more at any place , till , being driven on the coast of ireland by a very hard gale of wind , the ship came to an anchor in a little bay , near the mouth of a river , whose name i remember not , but they said the river came down from limerick , and that it was the largest river in ireland .
here , being detained by bad weather for some time , the captain , who continued the same kind , good-humoured man as at first , took us two on shore with him again .
he did it now in kindness to my husband indeed , who bore the sea very ill , and was very sick , especially when it blew so hard .
here we bought in again a store of fresh provisions , especially beef , pork , mutton , and fowls , and the captain stayed to pickle up five or six barrels of beef to lengthen out the ship 's store .
we were here not above five days , when the weather turning mild , and a fair wind , we set sail again , and in two-and-forty days came safe to the coast of virginia .
when we drew near to the shore , the captain called me to him , and told me that he found by my discourse i had some relations in the place , and that i had been there before , and so he supposed i understood the custom in their disposing the convict prisoners when they arrived .
i told him i did not , and that as to what relations i had in the place , he might be sure i would make myself known to none of them while i was in the circumstances of a prisoner , and that as to the rest , we left ourselves entirely to him to assist us , as he was pleased to promise us he would do .
he told me i must get somebody in the place to come and buy us as servants , and who must answer for us to the governor of the country , if he demanded us .
i told him we should do as he should direct ; so he brought a planter to treat with him , as it were , for the purchase of these two servants , my husband and me , and there we were formally sold to him , and went ashore with him .
the captain went with us , and carried us to a certain house , whether it was to be called a tavern or not i know not , but we had a bowl of punch there made of rum , etc . , and were very merry .
after some time the planter gave us a certificate of discharge , and an acknowledgment of having served him faithfully , and we were free from him the next morning , to go wither we would .
for this piece of service the captain demanded of us six thousand weight of tabacco , which he said he was accountable for to his freighter , and which we immediately bought for him , and made him a present of twenty guineas besides , with which he was abundantly satisfied .
it is not proper to enter here into the particulars of what part of the colony of virginia we settled in , for divers reasons ; it may suffice to mention that we went into the great river potomac , the ship being bound thither ; and there we intended to have settled first , though afterwards we altered our minds .
the first thing i did of moment after having gotten all our goods on shore , and placed them in a storehouse , or warehouse , which , with a lodging , we hired at the small place or village where we landed--i say , the first thing was to inquire after my mother , and after my brother ( that fatal person whom i married as a husband , as i have related at large ) .
a little inquiry furnished me with information that mrs. ---- , that is , my mother , was dead ; that my brother ( or husband ) was alive , which i confess i was not very glad to hear ; but which was worse , i found he was removed from the plantation where he lived formerly , and where i lived with him , and lived with one of his sons in a plantation just by the place where we landed , and where we had hired a warehouse .
i was a little surprised at first , but as i ventured to satisfy myself that he could not know me , i was not only perfectly easy , but had a great mind to see him , if it was possible to so do without his seeing me .
in order to that i found out by inquiry the plantation where he lived , and with a woman of that place whom i got to help me , like what we call a chairwoman , i rambled about towards the place as if i had only a mind to see the country and look about me .
at last i came so near that i saw the dwellinghouse .
i asked the woman whose plantation that was ; she said it belonged to such a man , and looking out a little to our right hands , ' there , ' says she , is the gentleman that owns the plantation , and his father with him . '
'what are their christian names ? ' said i .
'i know not , ' says she , ' what the old gentleman 's name is , but the son 's name is humphrey ; and i believe , ' says she , ' the father 's is so too . '
you may guess , if you can , what a confused mixture of joy and fight possessed my thoughts upon this occasion , for i immediately knew that this was nobody else but my own son , by that father she showed me , who was my own brother .
i had no mask , but i ruffled my hood so about my face , that i depended upon it that after above twenty years ' absence , and withal not expecting anything of me in that part of the world , he would not be able to know anything of me .
but i need not have used all that caution , for the old gentleman was grown dim-sighted by some distemper which had fallen upon his eyes , and could but just see well enough to walk about , and not run against a tree or into a ditch .
the woman that was with me had told me that by a mere accident , knowing nothing of what importance it was to me .
as they drew near to us , i said , ' does he know you , mrs. owen ? ' ( so they called the woman ) .
'yes , ' said she , ' if he hears me speak , he will know me ; but he can 't see well enough to know me or anybody else ' ; and so she told me the story of his sight , as i have related .
this made me secure , and so i threw open my hoods again , and let them pass by me .
it was a wretched thing for a mother thus to see her own son , a handsome , comely young gentleman in flourishing circumstances , and durst not make herself known to him , and durst not take any notice of him .
let any mother of children that reads this consider it , and but think with what anguish of mind i restrained myself ; what yearnings of soul i had in me to embrace him , and weep over him ; and how i thought all my entrails turned within me , that my very bowels moved , and i knew not what to do , as i now know not how to express those agonies !
when he went from me i stood gazing and trembling , and looking after him as long as i could see him ; then sitting down to rest me , but turned from her , and lying on my face , wept , and kissed the ground that he had set his foot on .
i could not conceal my disorder so much from the woman but that she perceived it , and thought i was not well , which i was obliged to pretend was true ; upon which she pressed me to rise , the ground being damp and dangerous , which i did accordingly , and walked away .
as i was going back again , and still talking of this gentleman and his son , a new occasion of melancholy offered itself thus .
the woman began , as if she would tell me a story to divert me : ' there goes , ' says she , ' a very odd tale among the neighbours where this gentleman formerly live . '
'what was that ? ' said i .
'why , ' says she , ' that old gentleman going to england , when he was a young man , fell in love with a young lady there , one of the finest women that ever was seen , and married her , and brought her over hither to his mother who was then living .
he lived here several years with her , ' continued she , ' and had several children by her , of which the young gentleman that was with him now was one ; but after some time , the old gentlewoman , his mother , talking to her of something relating to herself when she was in england , and of her circumstances in england , which were bad enough , the daughter-in-law began to be very much surprised and uneasy ; and , in short , examining further into things , it appeared past all contradiction that the old gentlewoman was her own mother , and that consequently that son was his wife 's own brother , which struck the whole family with horror , and put them into such confusion that it had almost ruined them all . the young woman would not live with him ; the son , her brother and husband , for a time went distracted ; and at last the young woman went away for england , and has never been heard of since . '
it is easy to believe that i was strangely affected with this story , but ' tis impossible to describe the nature of my disturbance . i seemed astonished at the story , and asked her a thousand questions about the particulars , which i found she was thoroughly acquainted with .
at last i began to inquire into the circumstances of the family , how the old gentlewoman , i mean my mother , died , and how she left what she had ; for my mother had promised me very solemnly , that when she died she would do something for me , and leave it so , as that , if i was living , i should one way or other come at it , without its being in the power of her son , my brother and husband , to prevent it .
she told me she did not know exactly how it was ordered , but she had been told that my mother had left a sum of money , and had tied her plantation for the payment of it , to be made good to the daughter , if ever she could be heard of , either in england or elsewhere ; and that the trust was left with this son , who was the person that we saw with his father .
this was news too good for me to make light of , and , you may be sure , filled my heart with a thousand thoughts , what course i should take , how , and when , and in what manner i should make myself known , or whether i should ever make myself know or no .
here was a perplexity that i had not indeed skill to manage myself in , neither knew i what course to take . it lay heavy upon my mind night and day . i could neither sleep nor converse , so that my husband perceived it , and wondered what ailed me , strove to divert me , but it was all to no purpose . he pressed me to tell him what it was troubled me , but i put it off , till at last , importuning me continually , i was forced to form a story , which yet had a plain truth to lay it upon too . i told him i was troubled because i found we must shift our quarters and alter our scheme of settling , for that i found i should be known if i stayed in that part of the country ; for that my mother being dead , several of my relations were come into that part where we then was , and that i must either discover myself to them , which in our present circumstances was not proper on many accounts , or remove ; and which to do i knew not , and that this it was that made me so melancholy and so thoughtful .
he joined with me in this , that it was by no means proper for me to make myself known to anybody in the circumstances in which we then were ; and therefore he told me he would be willing to remove to any other part of the country , or even to any other country if i thought fit .
but now i had another difficulty , which was , that if i removed to any other colony , i put myself out of the way of ever making a due search after those effects which my mother had left . again i could never so much as think of breaking the secret of my former marriage to my new husband ; it was not a story , as i thought , that would bear telling , nor could i tell what might be the consequences of it ; and it was impossible to search into the bottom of the thing without making it public all over the country , as well who i was , as what i now was also .
in this perplexity i continued a great while , and this made my spouse very uneasy ; for he found me perplexed , and yet thought i was not open with him , and did not let him into every part of my grievance ; and he would often say , he wondered what he had done that i would not trust him with whatever it was , especially if it was grievous and afflicting .
the truth is , he ought to have been trusted with everything , for no man in the world could deserve better of a wife ; but this was a thing i knew not how to open to him , and yet having nobody to disclose any part of it to , the burthen was too heavy for my mind ; for let them say what they please of our sex not being able to keep a secret , my life is a plain conviction to me of the contrary ; but be it our sex , or the man 's sex , a secret of moment should always have a confidant , a bosom friend , to whom we may communicate the joy of it , or the grief of it , be it which it will , or it will be a double weight upon the spirits , and perhaps become even insupportable in itself ; and this i appeal to all human testimony for the truth of .
under the certain oppression of this weight upon my mind , i laboured in the case i have been naming ; and the only relief i found for it was to let my husband into so much of it as i thought would convince him of the necessity there was for us to think of settling in some other part of the world ; and the next consideration before us was , which part of the english settlements we should go to .
my husband was a perfect stranger to the country , and had not yet so much as a geographical knowledge of the situation of the several places ; and i , that , till i wrote this , did not know what the word geographical signified , had only a general knowledge from long conversation with people that came from or went to several places ; but this i knew , that maryland , pennsylvania , east and west jersey , new york , and new england lay all north of virginia , and that they were consequently all colder climates , to which for that very reason , i had an aversion . for that as i naturally loved warm weather , so now i grew into years i had a stronger inclination to shun a cold climate .
i therefore considered of going to caroline , which is the only southern colony of the english on the continent of america , and hither i proposed to go ; and the rather because i might with great ease come from thence at any time , when it might be proper to inquire after my mother 's effects , and to make myself known enough to demand them .
but now i found a new difficulty upon me . the main affair grew heavy upon my mind still , and i could not think of going out of the country without somehow or other making inquiry into the grand affair of what my mother had done for me ; nor could i with any patience bear the thought of going away , and not make myself known to my old husband ( brother ) , or to my child , his son ; only i would fain have had this done without my new husband having any knowledge of it , or they having any knowledge of him , or that i had such a thing as a husband .
i cast about innumerable ways in my thoughts how this might be done .
i would gladly have sent my husband away to caroline with all our goods , and have come after myself , but this was impracticable ; he would never stir without me , being himself perfectly unacquainted with the country , and with the methods of settling there or anywhere else .
then i thought we would both go first with part of our goods , and that when we were settled i should come back to virginia and fetch the remainder ; but even then i knew he would never part with me , and be left there to go on alone . the case was plain ; he was bred a gentleman , and by consequence was not only unacquainted , but indolent , and when we did settle , would much rather go out into the woods with his gun , which they call there hunting , and which is the ordinary work of the indians , and which they do as servants ; i say , he would rather do that than attend the natural business of his plantation .
these were therefore difficulties insurmountable , and such as i knew not what to do in . i had such strong impressions on my mind about discovering myself to my brother , formerly my husband , that i could not withstand them ; and the rather , because it ran constantly in my thoughts , that if i did not do it while he lived , i might in vain endeavour to convince my son afterward that i was really the same person , and that i was his mother , and so might both lose the assistance and comfort of the relation , and the benefit of whatever it was my mother had left me ; and yet , on the other hand , i could never think it proper to discover myself to them in the circumstances i was in , as well relating to the having a husband with me as to my being brought over by a legal transportation as a criminal ; on both which accounts it was absolutely necessary to me to remove from the place where i was , and come again to him , as from another place and in another figure .
upon those considerations , i went on with telling my husband the absolute necessity there was of our not settling in potomac river , at least that we should be presently made public there ; whereas if we went to any other place in the world , we should come in with as much reputation as any family that came to plant ; that , as it was always agreeable to the inhabitants to have families come among them to plant , who brought substance with them , either to purchase plantations or begin new ones , so we should be sure of a kind , agreeable reception , and that without any possibility of a discovery of our circumstances .
i told him in general , too , that as i had several relations in the place where we were , and that i durst not now let myself be known to them , because they would soon come into a knowledge of the occasion and reason of my coming over , which would be to expose myself to the last degree , so i had reason to believe that my mother , who died here , had left me something , and perhaps considerable , which it might be very well worth my while to inquire after ; but that this too could not be done without exposing us publicly , unless we went from hence ; and then , wherever we settled , i might come , as it were , to visit and to see my brother and nephews , make myself known to them , claim and inquire after what was my due , be received with respect , and at the same time have justice done me with cheerfulness and good will ; whereas , if i did it now , i could expect nothing but with trouble , such as exacting it by force , receiving it with curses and reluctance , and with all kinds of affronts , which he would not perhaps bear to see ; that in case of being obliged to legal proofs of being really her daughter , i might be at loss , be obliged to have recourse to england , and it may be to fail at last , and so lose it , whatever it might be .
with these arguments , and having thus acquainted my husband with the whole secret so far as was needful of him , we resolved to go and seek a settlement in some other colony , and at first thoughts , caroline was the place we pitched upon .
in order to this we began to make inquiry for vessels going to carolina , and in a very little while got information , that on the other side the bay , as they call it , namely , in maryland , there was a ship which came from carolina , laden with rice and other goods , and was going back again thither , and from thence to jamaica , with provisions .
on this news we hired a sloop to take in our goods , and taking , as it were , a final farewell of potomac river , we went with all our cargo over to maryland .
this was a long and unpleasant voyage , and my spouse said it was worse to him than all the voyage from england , because the weather was but indifferent , the water rough , and the vessel small and inconvenient . in the next place , we were full a hundred miles up potomac river , in a part which they call westmoreland county , and as that river is by far the greatest in virginia , and i have heard say it is the greatest river in the world that falls into another river , and not directly into the sea , so we had base weather in it , and were frequently in great danger ; for though we were in the middle , we could not see land on either side for many leagues together .
then we had the great river or bay of chesapeake to cross , which is where the river potomac falls into it , near thirty miles broad , and we entered more great vast waters whose names i know not , so that our voyage was full two hundred miles , in a poor , sorry sloop , with all our treasure , and if any accident had happened to us , we might at last have been very miserable ; supposing we had lost our goods and saved our lives only , and had then been left naked and destitute , and in a wild , strange place not having one friend or acquaintance in all that part of the world .
the very thought of it gives me some horror , even since the danger is past .
well , we came to the place in five days ' sailing ; i think they call it philip 's point ; and behold , when we came thither , the ship bound to carolina was loaded and gone away but three days before .
this was a disappointment ; but , however , i , that was to be discouraged with nothing , told my husband that since we could not get passage to caroline , and that the country we was in was very fertile and good , we would , if he liked of it , see if we could find out anything for our tune where we was , and that if he liked things we would settle here .
we immediately went on shore , but found no conveniences just at that place , either for our being on shore or preserving our goods on shore , but was directed by a very honest quaker , whom we found there , to go to a place about sixty miles east ; that is to say , nearer the mouth of the bay , where he said he lived , and where we should be accommodated , either to plant , or to wait for any other place to plant in that might be more convenient ; and he invited us with so much kindness and simple honesty , that we agreed to go , and the quaker himself went with us .
here we bought us two servants , viz. an english woman-servant just come on shore from a ship of liverpool , and a negro man-servant , things absolutely necessary for all people that pretended to settle in that country .
this honest quaker was very helpful to us , and when we came to the place that he proposed to us , found us out a convenient storehouse for our goods , and lodging for ourselves and our servants ; and about two months or thereabouts afterwards , by his direction , we took up a large piece of land from the governor of that country , in order to form our plantation , and so we laid the thoughts of going to caroline wholly aside , having been very well received here , and accommodated with a convenient lodging till we could prepare things , and have land enough cleared , and timber and materials provided for building us a house , all which we managed by the direction of the quaker ; so that in one year 's time we had nearly fifty acres of land cleared , part of it enclosed , and some of it planted with tabacco , though not much ; besides , we had garden ground and corn sufficient to help supply our servants with roots and herbs and bread .
and now i persuaded my husband to let me go over the bay again , and inquire after my friends . he was the willinger to consent to it now , because he had business upon his hands sufficient to employ him , besides his gun to divert him , which they call hunting there , and which he greatly delighted in ; and indeed we used to look at one another , sometimes with a great deal of pleasure , reflecting how much better that was , not than newgate only , but than the most prosperous of our circumstances in the wicked trade that we had been both carrying on .
our affair was in a very good posture ; we purchased of the proprietors of the colony as much land for # 35 , paid in ready money , as would make a sufficient plantation to employ between fifty and sixty servants , and which , being well improved , would be sufficient to us as long as we could either of us live ; and as for children , i was past the prospect of anything of that kind .
but out good fortune did not end here . i went , as i have said , over the bay , to the place where my brother , once a husband , lived ; but i did not go to the same village where i was before , but went up another great river , on the east side of the river potomac , called rappahannock river , and by this means came on the back of his plantation , which was large , and by the help of a navigable creek , or little river , that ran into the rappahannock , i came very near it .
i was now fully resolved to go up point-blank to my brother ( husband ) , and to tell him who i was ; but not knowing what temper i might find him in , or how much out of temper rather , i might make him by such a rash visit , i resolved to write a letter to him first , to let him know who i was , and that i was come not to give him any trouble upon the old relation , which i hoped was entirely forgot , but that i applied to him as a sister to a brother , desiring his assistance in the case of that provision which our mother , at her decease , had left for my support , and which i did not doubt but he would do me justice in , especially considering that i was come thus far to look after it .
i said some very tender , kind things in the letter about his son , which i told him he knew to be my own child , and that as i was guilty of nothing in marrying him , any more than he was in marrying me , neither of us having then known our being at all related to one another , so i hoped he would allow me the most passionate desire of once seeing my one and only child , and of showing something of the infirmities of a mother in preserving a violent affect for him , who had never been able to retain any thought of me one way or other .
i did believe that , having received this letter , he would immediately give it to his son to read , i having understood his eyes being so dim , that he could not see to read it ; but it fell out better than so , for as his sight was dim , so he had allowed his son to open all letters that came to his hand for him , and the old gentleman being from home , or out of the way when my messenger came , my letter came directly to my son 's hand , and he opened and read it .
he called the messenger in , after some little stay , and asked him where the person was who gave him the letter .
the messenger told him the place , which was about seven miles off , so he bid him stay , and ordering a horse to be got ready , and two servants , away he came to me with the messenger .
let any one judge the consternation i was in when my messenger came back , and told me the old gentleman was not at home , but his son was come along with him , and was just coming up to me .
i was perfectly confounded , for i knew not whether it was peace or war , nor could i tell how to behave ; however , i had but a very few moments to think , for my son was at the heels of the messenger , and coming up into my lodgings , asked the fellow at the door something .
i suppose it was , for i did not hear it so as to understand it , which was the gentlewoman that sent him ; for the messenger said , ' there she is , sir ' ; at which he comes directly up to me , kisses me , took me in his arms , and embraced me with so much passion that he could not speak , but i could feel his breast heave and throb like a child , that cries , but sobs , and cannot cry it out .
i can neither express nor describe the joy that touched my very soul when i found , for it was easy to discover that part , that he came not as a stranger , but as a son to a mother , and indeed as a son who had never before known what a mother of his own was ; in short , we cried over one another a considerable while , when at last he broke out first .
'my dear mother , ' says he , ' are you still alive ?
i never expected to have seen your face . '
as for me , i could say nothing a great while .
after we had both recovered ourselves a little , and were able to talk , he told me how things stood .
as to what i had written to his father , he told me he had not showed my letter to his father , or told him anything about it ; that what his grandmother left me was in his hands , and that he would do me justice to my full satisfaction ; that as to his father , he was old and infirm both in body and mind ; that he was very fretful and passionate , almost blind , and capable of nothing ; and he questioned whether he would know how to act in an affair which was of so nice a nature as this ; and that therefore he had come himself , as well to satisfy himself in seeing me , which he could not restrain himself from , as also to put it into my power to make a judgment , after i had seen how things were , whether i would discover myself to his father or no .
this was really so prudently and wisely managed , that i found my son was a man of sense , and needed no direction from me .
i told him i did not wonder that his father was as he had described him , for that his head was a little touched before i went away ; and principally his disturbance was because i could not be persuaded to conceal our relation and to live with him as my husband , after i knew that he was my brother ; that as he knew better than i what his father 's present condition was , i should readily join with him in such measure as he would direct ; that i was indifferent as to seeing his father , since i had seen him first , and he could not have told me better news than to tell me that what his grandmother had left me was entrusted in his hands , who , i doubted not , now he knew who i was , would , as he said , do me justice .
i inquired then how long my mother had been dead , and where she died , and told so many particulars of the family , that i left him no room to doubt the truth of my being really and truly his mother .
my son then inquired where i was , and how i had disposed myself .
i told him i was on the maryland side of the bay , at the plantation of a particular friend who came from england in the same ship with me ; that as for that side of the bay where he was , i had no habitation .
he told me i should go home with him , and live with him , if i pleased , as long as i lived ; that as to his father , he knew nobody , and would never so much as guess at me .
i considered of that a little , and told him , that though it was really no concern to me to live at a distance from him , yet i could not say it would be the most comfortable thing in the world to me to live in the house with him , and to have that unhappy object always before me , which had been such a blow to my peace before ; that though i should be glad to have his company ( my son ) , or to be as near him as possible while i stayed , yet i could not think of being in the house where i should be also under constant restraint for fear of betraying myself in my discourse , nor should i be able to refrain some expressions in my conversing with him as my son , that might discover the whole affair , which would by no means be convenient .
he acknowledged that i was right in all this .
'but then , dear mother , ' says he , ' you shall be as near me as you can . '
so he took me with him on horseback to a plantation next to his own , and where i was as well entertained as i could have been in his own .
having left me there he went away home , telling me we would talk of the main business the next day ; and having first called me his aunt , and given a charge to the people , who it seems were his tenants , to treat me with all possible respect . about two hours after he was gone , he sent me a maid-servant and a negro boy to wait on me , and provisions ready dressed for my supper ; and thus i was as if i had been in a new world , and began secretly now to wish that i had not brought my lancashire husband from england at all .
however , that wish was not hearty neither , for i loved my lancashire husband entirely , as indeed i had ever done from the beginning ; and he merited from me as much as it was possible for a man to do ; but that by the way .
the next morning my son came to visit me again almost as soon as i was up .
after a little discourse , he first of all pulled out a deerskin bag , and gave it me , with five-and-fifty spanish pistoles in it , and told me that was to supply my expenses from england , for though it was not his business to inquire , yet he ought to think i did not bring a great deal of money out with me , it not being usual to bring much money into that country . then he pulled out his grandmother 's will , and read it over to me , whereby it appeared that she had left a small plantation , as he called it , on york river , that is , where my mother lived , to me , with the stock of servants and cattle upon it , and given it in trust to this son of mine for my use , whenever he should hear of my being alive , and to my heirs , if i had any children , and in default of heirs , to whomsoever i should by will dispose of it ; but gave the income of it , till i should be heard of , or found , to my said son ; and if i should not be living , then it was to him , and his heirs .
this plantation , though remote from him , he said he did not let out , but managed it by a head-clerk ( steward ) , as he did another that was his father 's , that lay hard by it , and went over himself three or four times a year to look after it .
i asked him what he thought the plantation might be worth . he said , if i would let it out , he would give me about # 60 a year for it ; but if i would live on it , then it would be worth much more , and , he believed , would bring me in about # 150 a year .
but seeing i was likely either to settle on the other side of the bay , or might perhaps have a mind to go back to england again , if i would let him be my steward he would manage it for me , as he had done for himself , and that he believed he should be able to send me as much tobacco to england from it as would yield me about # 100 a year , sometimes more .
but i leave the reader to improve these thoughts , as no doubt they will see cause , and i go on to the fact . my son 's tender carriage and kind offers fetched tears from me , almost all the while he talked with me .
indeed , i could scarce discourse with him but in the intervals of my passion ; however , at length i began , and expressing myself with wonder at my being so happy to have the trust of what i had left , put into the hands of my own child , i told him , that as to the inheritance of it , i had no child but him in the world , and was now past having any if i should marry , and therefore would desire him to get a writing drawn , which i was ready to execute , by which i would , after me , give it wholly to him and to his heirs .
and in the meantime , smiling , i asked him what made him continue a bachelor so long .
his answer was kind and ready , that virginia did not yield any great plenty of wives , and that since i talked of going back to england , i should send him a wife from london .
this was the substance of our first day 's conversation , the pleasantest day that ever passed over my head in my life , and which gave me the truest satisfaction .
he came every day after this , and spent a great part of his time with me , and carried me about to several of his friends ' houses , where i was entertained with great respect .
also i dined several times at his own house , when he took care always to see his half-dead father so out of the way that i never saw him , or he me . i made him one present , and it was all i had of value , and that was one of the gold watches , of which i mentioned above , that i had two in my chest , and this i happened to have with me , and i gave it him at his third visit . i told him i had nothing of any value to bestow but that , and i desired he would now and then kiss it for my sake .
i did not indeed tell him that i had stole it from a gentlewoman 's side , at a meeting-house in london . that 's by the way .
he stood a little while hesitating , as if doubtful whether to take it or no ; but i pressed it on him , and made him accept it , and it was not much less worth than his leather pouch full of spanish gold ; no , though it were to be reckoned as if at london , whereas it was worth twice as much there , where i gave it him .
at length he took it , kissed it , told me the watch should be a debt upon him that he would be paying as long as i lived .
a few days after he brought the writings of gift , and the scrivener with them , and i signed them very freely , and delivered them to him with a hundred kisses ; for sure nothing ever passed between a mother and a tender , dutiful child with more affection .
the next day he brings me an obligation under his hand and seal , whereby he engaged himself to manage and improve the plantation for my account , and with his utmost skill , and to remit the produce to my order wherever i should be ; and withal , to be obliged himself to make up the produce # 100 a year to me .
when he had done so , he told me that as i came to demand it before the crop was off , i had a right to produce of the current year , and so he paid me # 100 in spanish pieces of eight , and desired me to give him a receipt for it as in full for that year , ending at christmas following ; this being about the latter end of august .
i stayed here about five weeks , and indeed had much ado to get away then . nay , he would have come over the bay with me , but i would by no means allow him to it . however , he would send me over in a sloop of his own , which was built like a yacht , and served him as well for pleasure as business .
this i accepted of , and so , after the utmost expressions both of duty and affection , he let me come away , and i arrived safe in two days at my friend 's the quaker 's .
i brought over with me for the use of our plantation , three horses , with harness and saddles , some hogs , two cows , and a thousand other things , the gift of the kindest and tenderest child that ever woman had .
i related to my husband all the particulars of this voyage , except that i called my son my cousin ; and first i told him that i had lost my watch , which he seemed to take as a misfortune ; but then i told him how kind my cousin had been , that my mother had left me such a plantation , and that he had preserved it for me , in hopes some time or other he should hear from me ; then i told him that i had left it to his management , that he would render me a faithful account of its produce ; and then i pulled him out the # 100 in silver , as the first year 's produce ; and then pulling out the deerskin purse with the pistoles , ' and here , my dear , ' says i , ' is the gold watch . '
my husband--so is heaven 's goodness sure to work the same effects in all sensible minds where mercies touch the heart--lifted up both hands , and with an ecstacy of joy , ' what is god a-doing , ' says he , ' for such an ungrateful dog as i am ! '
then i let him know what i had brought over in the sloop , besides all this ; i mean the horses , hogs , and cows , and other stores for our plantation ; all which added to his surprise , and filled his heart with thankfulness ; and from this time forward i believe he was as sincere a penitent , and as thoroughly a reformed man , as ever god 's goodness brought back from a profligate , a highwayman , and a robber .
we went on with our plantation , and managed it with the help and diversion of such friends as we got there by our obliging behaviour , and especially the honest quaker , who proved a faithful , generous , and steady friend to us ; and we had very good success , for having a flourishing stock to begin with , as i have said , and this being now increased by the addition of # 150 sterling in money , we enlarged our number of servants , built us a very good house , and cured every year a great deal of land .
the second year i wrote to my old governess , giving her part with us of the joy of our success , and order her how to lay out the money i had left with her , which was # 250 as above , and to send it to us in goods , which she performed with her usual kindness and fidelity , and this arrived safe to us .
here we had a supply of all sorts of clothes , as well for my husband as for myself ; and i took especial care to buy for him all those things that i knew he delighted to have ; as two good long wigs , two silver-hilted swords , three or four fine fowling-pieces , a find saddle with holsters and pistols very handsome , with a scarlet cloak ; and , in a word , everything i could think of to oblige him , and to make him appear , as he really was , a very fine gentleman .
i ordered a good quantity of such household stuff as we yet wanted , with linen of all sorts for us both . as for myself , i wanted very little of clothes or linen , being very well furnished before . the rest of my cargo consisted in iron-work of all sorts , harness for horses , tools , clothes for servants , and woollen cloth , stuffs , serges , stockings , shoes , hats , and the like , such as servants wear ; and whole pieces also to make up for servants , all by direction of the quaker ; and all this cargo arrived safe , and in good condition , with three woman-servants , lusty wenches , which my old governess had picked for me , suitable enough to the place , and to the work we had for them to do ; one of which happened to come double , having been got with child by one of the seamen in the ship , as she owned afterwards , before the ship got so far as gravesend ; so she brought us a stout boy , about seven months after her landing .
my husband , you may suppose , was a little surprised at the arriving of all this cargo from england ; and talking with me after he saw the account of this particular , ' my dear , ' says he , ' what is the meaning of all this ?
i fear you will run us too deep in debt : when shall we be able to make return for it all ? '
i smiled , and told him that is was all paid for ; and then i told him , that what our circumstances might expose us to , i had not taken my whole stock with me , that i had reserved so much in my friend 's hands , which now we were come over safe , and was settled in a way to live , i had sent for , as he might see .
he was amazed , and stood a while telling upon his fingers , but said nothing .
at last he began thus : ' hold , let 's see , ' says he , telling upon his fingers still , and first on his thumb ; ' there 's # 246 in money at first , then two gold watches , diamond rings , and plate , ' says he , upon the forefinger . then upon the next finger , ' here 's a plantation on york river , # 100 a year , then # 150 in money , then a sloop load of horses , cows , hogs , and stores ' ; and so on to the thumb again . ' and now , ' says he , ' a cargo cost # 250 in england , and worth here twice the money . '
'well , ' says i , ' what do you make of all that ? '
'make of it ? ' says he ; ' why , who says i was deceived when i married a wife in lancashire ?
i think i have married a fortune , and a very good fortune too , ' says he .
in a word , we were now in very considerable circumstances , and every year increasing ; for our new plantation grew upon our hands insensibly , and in eight years which we lived upon it , we brought it to such pitch , that the produce was at least # 300 sterling a year ; i mean , worth so much in england .
after i had been a year at home again , i went over the bay to see my son , and to receive another year 's income of my plantation ; and i was surprised to hear , just at my landing there , that my old husband was dead , and had not been buried above a fortnight .
this , i confess , was not disagreeable news , because now i could appear as i was , in a married condition ; so i told my son before i came from him , that i believed i should marry a gentleman who had a plantation near mine ; and though i was legally free to marry , as to any obligation that was on me before , yet that i was shy of it , lest the blot should some time or other be revived , and it might make a husband uneasy .
my son , the same kind , dutiful , and obliging creature as ever , treated me now at his own house , paid me my hundred pounds , and sent me home again loaded with presents .
some time after this , i let my son know i was married , and invited him over to see us , and my husband wrote a very obliging letter to him also , inviting him to come and see him ; and he came accordingly some months after , and happened to be there just when my cargo from england came in , which i let him believe belonged all to my husband 's estate , not to me .
it must be observed that when the old wretch my brother ( husband ) was dead , i then freely gave my husband an account of all that affair , and of this cousin , as i had called him before , being my own son by that mistaken unhappy match .
he was perfectly easy in the account , and told me he should have been as easy if the old man , as we called him , had been alive .
'for , ' said he , ' it was no fault of yours , nor of his ; it was a mistake impossible to be prevented . '
he only reproached him with desiring me to conceal it , and to live with him as a wife , after i knew that he was my brother ; that , he said , was a vile part .
thus all these difficulties were made easy , and we lived together with the greatest kindness and comfort imaginable . we are grown old ; i am come back to england , being almost seventy years of age , husband sixty-eight , having performed much more than the limited terms of my transportation ; and now , notwithstanding all the fatigues and all the miseries we have both gone through , we are both of us in good heart and health .
my husband remained there some time after me to settle our affairs , and at first i had intended to go back to him , but at his desire i altered that resolution , and he is come over to england also , where we resolve to spend the remainder of our years in sincere penitence for the wicked lives we have lived .
the life and adventures of robinson crusoe
daniel defoe
i was born in the year 1632 , in the city of york , of a good family , though not of that country , my father being a foreigner of bremen , who settled first at hull .
he got a good estate by merchandise , and leaving off his trade , lived afterwards at york , from whence he had married my mother , whose relations were named robinson , a very good family in that country , and from whom i was called robinson kreutznaer ; but , by the usual corruption of words in england , we are now called - nay we call ourselves and write our name - crusoe ; and so my companions always called me .
i had two elder brothers , one of whom was lieutenant-colonel to an english regiment of foot in flanders , formerly commanded by the famous colonel lockhart , and was killed at the battle near dunkirk against the spaniards . what became of my second brother i never knew , any more than my father or mother knew what became of me .
being the third son of the family and not bred to any trade , my head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts .
my father , who was very ancient , had given me a competent share of learning , as far as house-education and a country free school generally go , and designed me for the law ; but i would be satisfied with nothing but going to sea ; and my inclination to this led me so strongly against the will , nay , the commands of my father , and against all the entreaties and persuasions of my mother and other friends , that there seemed to be something fatal in that propensity of nature , tending directly to the life of misery which was to befall me .
my father , a wise and grave man , gave me serious and excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design .
he called me one morning into his chamber , where he was confined by the gout , and expostulated very warmly with me upon this subject . he asked me what reasons , more than a mere wandering inclination , i had for leaving father 's house and my native country , where i might be well introduced , and had a prospect of raising my fortune by application and industry , with a life of ease and pleasure .
he told me it was men of desperate fortunes on one hand , or of aspiring , superior fortunes on the other , who went abroad upon adventures , to rise by enterprise , and make themselves famous in undertakings of a nature out of the common road ; that these things were all either too far above me or too far below me ; that mine was the middle state , or what might be called the upper station of low life , which he had found , by long experience , was the best state in the world , the most suited to human happiness , not exposed to the miseries and hardships , the labour and sufferings of the mechanic part of mankind , and not embarrassed with the pride , luxury , ambition , and envy of the upper part of mankind .
he told me i might judge of the happiness of this state by this one thing - viz. that this was the state of life which all other people envied ; that kings have frequently lamented the miserable consequence of being born to great things , and wished they had been placed in the middle of the two extremes , between the mean and the great ; that the wise man gave his testimony to this , as the standard of felicity , when he prayed to have neither poverty nor riches .
he bade me observe it , and i should always find that the calamities of life were shared among the upper and lower part of mankind , but that the middle station had the fewest disasters , and was not exposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of mankind ; nay , they were not subjected to so many distempers and uneasinesses , either of body or mind , as those were who , by vicious living , luxury , and extravagances on the one hand , or by hard labour , want of necessaries , and mean or insufficient diet on the other hand , bring distemper upon themselves by the natural consequences of their way of living ; that the middle station of life was calculated for all kind of virtue and all kind of enjoyments ; that peace and plenty were the handmaids of a middle fortune ; that temperance , moderation , quietness , health , society , all agreeable diversions , and all desirable pleasures , were the blessings attending the middle station of life ; that this way men went silently and smoothly through the world , and comfortably out of it , not embarrassed with the labours of the hands or of the head , not sold to a life of slavery for daily bread , nor harassed with perplexed circumstances , which rob the soul of peace and the body of rest , nor enraged with the passion of envy , or the secret burning lust of ambition for great things ; but , in easy circumstances , sliding gently through the world , and sensibly tasting the sweets of living , without the bitter ; feeling that they are happy , and learning by every day 's experience to know it more sensibly .
after this he pressed me earnestly , and in the most affectionate manner , not to play the young man , nor to precipitate myself into miseries which nature , and the station of life i was born in , seemed to have provided against ; that i was under no necessity of seeking my bread ; that he would do well for me , and endeavour to enter me fairly into the station of life which he had just been recommending to me ; and that if i was not very easy and happy in the world , it must be my mere fate or fault that must hinder it ; and that he should have nothing to answer for , having thus discharged his duty in warning me against measures which he knew would be to my hurt ; in a word , that as he would do very kind things for me if i would stay and settle at home as he directed , so he would not have so much hand in my misfortunes as to give me any encouragement to go away ; and to close all , he told me i had my elder brother for an example , to whom he had used the same earnest persuasions to keep him from going into the low country wars , but could not prevail , his young desires prompting him to run into the army , where he was killed ; and though he said he would not cease to pray for me , yet he would venture to say to me , that if i did take this foolish step , god would not bless me , and i should have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his counsel when there might be none to assist in my recovery .
i observed in this last part of his discourse , which was truly prophetic , though i suppose my father did not know it to be so himself - i say , i observed the tears run down his face very plentifully , especially when he spoke of my brother who was killed : and that when he spoke of my having leisure to repent , and none to assist me , he was so moved that he broke off the discourse , and told me his heart was so full he could say no more to me .
i was sincerely affected with this discourse , and , indeed , who could be otherwise ? and i resolved not to think of going abroad any more , but to settle at home according to my father 's desire .
but alas ! a few days wore it all off ; and , in short , to prevent any of my father 's further importunities , in a few weeks after i resolved to run quite away from him .
however , i did not act quite so hastily as the first heat of my resolution prompted ; but i took my mother at a time when i thought her a little more pleasant than ordinary , and told her that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing the world that i should never settle to anything with resolution enough to go through with it , and my father had better give me his consent than force me to go without it ; that i was now eighteen years old , which was too late to go apprentice to a trade or clerk to an attorney ; that i was sure if i did i should never serve out my time , but i should certainly run away from my master before my time was out , and go to sea ; and if she would speak to my father to let me go one voyage abroad , if i came home again , and did not like it , i would go no more ; and i would promise , by a double diligence , to recover the time that i had lost .
this put my mother into a great passion ; she told me she knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon any such subject ; that he knew too well what was my interest to give his consent to anything so much for my hurt ; and that she wondered how i could think of any such thing after the discourse i had had with my father , and such kind and tender expressions as she knew my father had used to me ; and that , in short , if i would ruin myself , there was no help for me ; but i might depend i should never have their consent to it ; that for her part she would not have so much hand in my destruction ; and i should never have it to say that my mother was willing when my father was not .
though my mother refused to move it to my father , yet i heard afterwards that she reported all the discourse to him , and that my father , after showing a great concern at it , said to her , with a sigh , " that boy might be happy if he would stay at home ; but if he goes abroad , he will be the most miserable wretch that ever was born : i can give no consent to it . "
it was not till almost a year after this that i broke loose , though , in the meantime , i continued obstinately deaf to all proposals of settling to business , and frequently expostulated with my father and mother about their being so positively determined against what they knew my inclinations prompted me to .
but being one day at hull , where i went casually , and without any purpose of making an elopement at that time ; but , i say , being there , and one of my companions being about to sail to london in his father 's ship , and prompting me to go with them with the common allurement of seafaring men , that it should cost me nothing for my passage , i consulted neither father nor mother any more , nor so much as sent them word of it ; but leaving them to hear of it as they might , without asking god 's blessing or my father 's , without any consideration of circumstances or consequences , and in an ill hour , god knows , on the 1st of september 1651 , i went on board a ship bound for london .
never any young adventurer 's misfortunes , i believe , began sooner , or continued longer than mine .
the ship was no sooner out of the humber than the wind began to blow and the sea to rise in a most frightful manner ; and , as i had never been at sea before , i was most inexpressibly sick in body and terrified in mind .
i began now seriously to reflect upon what i had done , and how justly i was overtaken by the judgment of heaven for my wicked leaving my father 's house , and abandoning my duty .
all the good counsels of my parents , my father 's tears and my mother 's entreaties , came now fresh into my mind ; and my conscience , which was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to which it has since , reproached me with the contempt of advice , and the breach of my duty to god and my father .
all this while the storm increased , and the sea went very high , though nothing like what i have seen many times since ; no , nor what i saw a few days after ; but it was enough to affect me then , who was but a young sailor , and had never known anything of the matter .
i expected every wave would have swallowed us up , and that every time the ship fell down , as i thought it did , in the trough or hollow of the sea , we should never rise more ; in this agony of mind , i made many vows and resolutions that if it would please god to spare my life in this one voyage , if ever i got once my foot upon dry land again , i would go directly home to my father , and never set it into a ship again while i lived ; that i would take his advice , and never run myself into such miseries as these any more .
now i saw plainly the goodness of his observations about the middle station of life , how easy , how comfortably he had lived all his days , and never had been exposed to tempests at sea or troubles on shore ; and i resolved that i would , like a true repenting prodigal , go home to my father .
these wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the storm lasted , and indeed some time after ; but the next day the wind was abated , and the sea calmer , and i began to be a little inured to it ; however , i was very grave for all that day , being also a little sea-sick still ; but towards night the weather cleared up , the wind was quite over , and a charming fine evening followed ; the sun went down perfectly clear , and rose so the next morning ; and having little or no wind , and a smooth sea , the sun shining upon it , the sight was , as i thought , the most delightful that ever i saw .
i had slept well in the night , and was now no more sea-sick , but very cheerful , looking with wonder upon the sea that was so rough and terrible the day before , and could be so calm and so pleasant in so little a time after .
and now , lest my good resolutions should continue , my companion , who had enticed me away , comes to me ; " well , bob , " says he , clapping me upon the shoulder , " how do you do after it ?
i warrant you were frighted , wer 'n't you , last night , when it blew but a capful of wind ? "
" a capful d 'you call it ? " said i ; " ' twas a terrible storm . " " a storm , you fool you , " replies he ; " do you call that a storm ? why , it was nothing at all ; give us but a good ship and sea-room , and we think nothing of such a squall of wind as that ; but you 're but a fresh-water sailor , bob .
come , let us make a bowl of punch , and we 'll forget all that ; d 'ye see what charming weather ' tis now ? "
to make short this sad part of my story , we went the way of all sailors ; the punch was made and i was made half drunk with it : and in that one night 's wickedness i drowned all my repentance , all my reflections upon my past conduct , all my resolutions for the future .
in a word , as the sea was returned to its smoothness of surface and settled calmness by the abatement of that storm , so the hurry of my thoughts being over , my fears and apprehensions of being swallowed up by the sea being forgotten , and the current of my former desires returned , i entirely forgot the vows and promises that i made in my distress .
i found , indeed , some intervals of reflection ; and the serious thoughts did , as it were , endeavour to return again sometimes ; but i shook them off , and roused myself from them as it were from a distemper , and applying myself to drinking and company , soon mastered the return of those fits - for so i called them ; and i had in five or six days got as complete a victory over conscience as any young fellow that resolved not to be troubled with it could desire .
but i was to have another trial for it still ; and providence , as in such cases generally it does , resolved to leave me entirely without excuse ; for if i would not take this for a deliverance , the next was to be such a one as the worst and most hardened wretch among us would confess both the danger and the mercy of .
the sixth day of our being at sea we came into yarmouth roads ; the wind having been contrary and the weather calm , we had made but little way since the storm .
here we were obliged to come to an anchor , and here we lay , the wind continuing contrary - viz. at south-west - for seven or eight days , during which time a great many ships from newcastle came into the same roads , as the common harbour where the ships might wait for a wind for the river .
we had not , however , rid here so long but we should have tided it up the river , but that the wind blew too fresh , and after we had lain four or five days , blew very hard .
however , the roads being reckoned as good as a harbour , the anchorage good , and our ground-tackle very strong , our men were unconcerned , and not in the least apprehensive of danger , but spent the time in rest and mirth , after the manner of the sea ; but the eighth day , in the morning , the wind increased , and we had all hands at work to strike our topmasts , and make everything snug and close , that the ship might ride as easy as possible .
by noon the sea went very high indeed , and our ship rode forecastle in , shipped several seas , and we thought once or twice our anchor had come home ; upon which our master ordered out the sheet-anchor , so that we rode with two anchors ahead , and the cables veered out to the bitter end .
by this time it blew a terrible storm indeed ; and now i began to see terror and amazement in the faces even of the seamen themselves .
the master , though vigilant in the business of preserving the ship , yet as he went in and out of his cabin by me , i could hear him softly to himself say , several times , " lord be merciful to us ! we shall be all lost ! we shall be all undone ! " and the like .
during these first hurries i was stupid , lying still in my cabin , which was in the steerage , and cannot describe my temper : i could ill resume the first penitence which i had so apparently trampled upon and hardened myself against : i thought the bitterness of death had been past , and that this would be nothing like the first ; but when the master himself came by me , as i said just now , and said we should be all lost , i was dreadfully frighted .
i got up out of my cabin and looked out ; but such a dismal sight i never saw : the sea ran mountains high , and broke upon us every three or four minutes ; when i could look about , i could see nothing but distress round us ; two ships that rode near us , we found , had cut their masts by the board , being deep laden ; and our men cried out that a ship which rode about a mile ahead of us was foundered .
two more ships , being driven from their anchors , were run out of the roads to sea , at all adventures , and that with not a mast standing .
the light ships fared the best , as not so much labouring in the sea ; but two or three of them drove , and came close by us , running away with only their spritsail out before the wind .
towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the master of our ship to let them cut away the fore-mast , which he was very unwilling to do ; but the boatswain protesting to him that if he did not the ship would founder , he consented ; and when they had cut away the fore-mast , the main-mast stood so loose , and shook the ship so much , they were obliged to cut that away also , and make a clear deck .
any one may judge what a condition i must be in at all this , who was but a young sailor , and who had been in such a fright before at but a little . but if i can express at this distance the thoughts i had about me at that time , i was in tenfold more horror of mind upon account of my former convictions , and the having returned from them to the resolutions i had wickedly taken at first , than i was at death itself ; and these , added to the terror of the storm , put me into such a condition that i can by no words describe it .
but the worst was not come yet ; the storm continued with such fury that the seamen themselves acknowledged they had never seen a worse .
we had a good ship , but she was deep laden , and wallowed in the sea , so that the seamen every now and then cried out she would founder . it was my advantage in one respect , that i did not know what they meant by _ founder _ till i inquired .
however , the storm was so violent that i saw , what is not often seen , the master , the boatswain , and some others more sensible than the rest , at their prayers , and expecting every moment when the ship would go to the bottom .
in the middle of the night , and under all the rest of our distresses , one of the men that had been down to see cried out we had sprung a leak ; another said there was four feet water in the hold .
then all hands were called to the pump .
at that word , my heart , as i thought , died within me : and i fell backwards upon the side of my bed where i sat , into the cabin .
however , the men roused me , and told me that i , that was able to do nothing before , was as well able to pump as another ; at which i stirred up and went to the pump , and worked very heartily .
while this was doing the master , seeing some light colliers , who , not able to ride out the storm were obliged to slip and run away to sea , and would come near us , ordered to fire a gun as a signal of distress .
i , who knew nothing what they meant , thought the ship had broken , or some dreadful thing happened . in a word , i was so surprised that i fell down in a swoon .
as this was a time when everybody had his own life to think of , nobody minded me , or what was become of me ; but another man stepped up to the pump , and thrusting me aside with his foot , let me lie , thinking i had been dead ; and it was a great while before i came to myself .
we worked on ; but the water increasing in the hold , it was apparent that the ship would founder ; and though the storm began to abate a little , yet it was not possible she could swim till we might run into any port ; so the master continued firing guns for help ; and a light ship , who had rid it out just ahead of us , ventured a boat out to help us .
it was with the utmost hazard the boat came near us ; but it was impossible for us to get on board , or for the boat to lie near the ship 's side , till at last the men rowing very heartily , and venturing their lives to save ours , our men cast them a rope over the stern with a buoy to it , and then veered it out a great length , which they , after much labour and hazard , took hold of , and we hauled them close under our stern , and got all into their boat .
it was to no purpose for them or us , after we were in the boat , to think of reaching their own ship ; so all agreed to let her drive , and only to pull her in towards shore as much as we could ; and our master promised them , that if the boat was staved upon shore , he would make it good to their master : so partly rowing and partly driving , our boat went away to the northward , sloping towards the shore almost as far as winterton ness .
we were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship till we saw her sink , and then i understood for the first time what was meant by a ship foundering in the sea .
i must acknowledge i had hardly eyes to look up when the seamen told me she was sinking ; for from the moment that they rather put me into the boat than that i might be said to go in , my heart was , as it were , dead within me , partly with fright , partly with horror of mind , and the thoughts of what was yet before me .
while we were in this condition - the men yet labouring at the oar to bring the boat near the shore - we could see ( when , our boat mounting the waves , we were able to see the shore ) a great many people running along the strand to assist us when we should come near ; but we made but slow way towards the shore ; nor were we able to reach the shore till , being past the lighthouse at winterton , the shore falls off to the westward towards cromer , and so the land broke off a little the violence of the wind . here we got in , and though not without much difficulty , got all safe on shore , and walked afterwards on foot to yarmouth , where , as unfortunate men , we were used with great humanity , as well by the magistrates of the town , who assigned us good quarters , as by particular merchants and owners of ships , and had money given us sufficient to carry us either to london or back to hull as we thought fit .
had i now had the sense to have gone back to hull , and have gone home , i had been happy , and my father , as in our blessed saviour 's parable , had even killed the fatted calf for me ; for hearing the ship i went away in was cast away in yarmouth roads , it was a great while before he had any assurances that i was not drowned .
but my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy that nothing could resist ; and though i had several times loud calls from my reason and my more composed judgment to go home , yet i had no power to do it .
i know not what to call this , nor will i urge that it is a secret overruling decree , that hurries us on to be the instruments of our own destruction , even though it be before us , and that we rush upon it with our eyes open . certainly , nothing but some such decreed unavoidable misery , which it was impossible for me to escape , could have pushed me forward against the calm reasonings and persuasions of my most retired thoughts , and against two such visible instructions as i had met with in my first attempt .
my comrade , who had helped to harden me before , and who was the master 's son , was now less forward than i. the first time he spoke to me after we were at yarmouth , which was not till two or three days , for we were separated in the town to several quarters ; i say , the first time he saw me , it appeared his tone was altered ; and , looking very melancholy , and shaking his head , he asked me how i did , and telling his father who i was , and how i had come this voyage only for a trial , in order to go further abroad , his father , turning to me with a very grave and concerned tone " young man , " says he , " you ought never to go to sea any more ; you ought to take this for a plain and visible token that you are not to be a seafaring man . "
" why , sir , " said i , " will you go to sea no more ? " " that is another case , " said he ; " it is my calling , and therefore my duty ; but as you made this voyage on trial , you see what a taste heaven has given you of what you are to expect if you persist .
perhaps this has all befallen us on your account , like jonah in the ship of tarshish .
pray , " continues he , " what are you ; and on what account did you go to sea ? "
upon that i told him some of my story ; at the end of which he burst out into a strange kind of passion : " what had i done , " says he , " that such an unhappy wretch should come into my ship ?
i would not set my foot in the same ship with thee again for a thousand pounds . " this indeed was , as i said , an excursion of his spirits , which were yet agitated by the sense of his loss , and was farther than he could have authority to go .
however , he afterwards talked very gravely to me , exhorting me to go back to my father , and not tempt providence to my ruin , telling me i might see a visible hand of heaven against me . " and , young man , " said he , " depend upon it , if you do not go back , wherever you go , you will meet with nothing but disasters and disappointments , till your father 's words are fulfilled upon you . "
we parted soon after ; for i made him little answer , and i saw him no more ; which way he went i knew not .
as for me , having some money in my pocket , i travelled to london by land ; and there , as well as on the road , had many struggles with myself what course of life i should take , and whether i should go home or to sea .
as to going home , shame opposed the best motions that offered to my thoughts , and it immediately occurred to me how i should be laughed at among the neighbours , and should be ashamed to see , not my father and mother only , but even everybody else ; from whence i have since often observed , how incongruous and irrational the common temper of mankind is , especially of youth , to that reason which ought to guide them in such cases - viz. that they are not ashamed to sin , and yet are ashamed to repent ; not ashamed of the action for which they ought justly to be esteemed fools , but are ashamed of the returning , which only can make them be esteemed wise men .
in this state of life , however , i remained some time , uncertain what measures to take , and what course of life to lead .
an irresistible reluctance continued to going home ; and as i stayed away a while , the remembrance of the distress i had been in wore off , and as that abated , the little motion i had in my desires to return wore off with it , till at last i quite laid aside the thoughts of it , and looked out for a voyage .
that evil influence which carried me first away from my father 's house - which hurried me into the wild and indigested notion of raising my fortune , and that impressed those conceits so forcibly upon me as to make me deaf to all good advice , and to the entreaties and even the commands of my father - i say , the same influence , whatever it was , presented the most unfortunate of all enterprises to my view ; and i went on board a vessel bound to the coast of africa ; or , as our sailors vulgarly called it , a voyage to guinea .
it was my great misfortune that in all these adventures i did not ship myself as a sailor ; when , though i might indeed have worked a little harder than ordinary , yet at the same time i should have learnt the duty and office of a fore-mast man , and in time might have qualified myself for a mate or lieutenant , if not for a master .
but as it was always my fate to choose for the worse , so i did here ; for having money in my pocket and good clothes upon my back , i would always go on board in the habit of a gentleman ; and so i neither had any business in the ship , nor learned to do any .
it was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good company in london , which does not always happen to such loose and misguided young fellows as i then was ; the devil generally not omitting to lay some snare for them very early ; but it was not so with me .
i first got acquainted with the master of a ship who had been on the coast of guinea ; and who , having had very good success there , was resolved to go again . this captain taking a fancy to my conversation , which was not at all disagreeable at that time , hearing me say i had a mind to see the world , told me if i would go the voyage with him i should be at no expense ; i should be his messmate and his companion ; and if i could carry anything with me , i should have all the advantage of it that the trade would admit ; and perhaps i might meet with some encouragement .
i embraced the offer ; and entering into a strict friendship with this captain , who was an honest , plain-dealing man , i went the voyage with him , and carried a small adventure with me , which , by the disinterested honesty of my friend the captain , i increased very considerably ; for i carried about  40 in such toys and trifles as the captain directed me to buy .
these  40 i had mustered together by the assistance of some of my relations whom i corresponded with ; and who , i believe , got my father , or at least my mother , to contribute so much as that to my first adventure .
this was the only voyage which i may say was successful in all my adventures , which i owe to the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain ; under whom also i got a competent knowledge of the mathematics and the rules of navigation , learned how to keep an account of the ship 's course , take an observation , and , in short , to understand some things that were needful to be understood by a sailor ; for , as he took delight to instruct me , i took delight to learn ; and , in a word , this voyage made me both a sailor and a merchant ; for i brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold-dust for my adventure , which yielded me in london , at my return , almost  300 ; and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which have since so completed my ruin .
yet even in this voyage i had my misfortunes too ; particularly , that i was continually sick , being thrown into a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the climate ; our principal trading being upon the coast , from latitude of 15 degrees north even to the line itself .
i was now set up for a guinea trader ; and my friend , to my great misfortune , dying soon after his arrival , i resolved to go the same voyage again , and i embarked in the same vessel with one who was his mate in the former voyage , and had now got the command of the ship .
this was the unhappiest voyage that ever man made ; for though i did not carry quite  100 of my new-gained wealth , so that i had  200 left , which i had lodged with my friend 's widow , who was very just to me , yet i fell into terrible misfortunes .
the first was this : our ship making her course towards the canary islands , or rather between those islands and the african shore , was surprised in the grey of the morning by a turkish rover of sallee , who gave chase to us with all the sail she could make .
we crowded also as much canvas as our yards would spread , or our masts carry , to get clear ; but finding the pirate gained upon us , and would certainly come up with us in a few hours , we prepared to fight ; our ship having twelve guns , and the rogue eighteen .
about three in the afternoon he came up with us , and bringing to , by mistake , just athwart our quarter , instead of athwart our stern , as he intended , we brought eight of our guns to bear on that side , and poured in a broadside upon him , which made him sheer off again , after returning our fire , and pouring in also his small shot from near two hundred men which he had on board .
however , we had not a man touched , all our men keeping close .
he prepared to attack us again , and we to defend ourselves .
but laying us on board the next time upon our other quarter , he entered sixty men upon our decks , who immediately fell to cutting and hacking the sails and rigging .
we plied them with small shot , half-pikes , powder-chests , and such like , and cleared our deck of them twice .
however , to cut short this melancholy part of our story , our ship being disabled , and three of our men killed , and eight wounded , we were obliged to yield , and were carried all prisoners into sallee , a port belonging to the moors .
the usage i had there was not so dreadful as at first i apprehended ; nor was i carried up the country to the emperor 's court , as the rest of our men were , but was kept by the captain of the rover as his proper prize , and made his slave , being young and nimble , and fit for his business . at this surprising change of my circumstances , from a merchant to a miserable slave , i was perfectly overwhelmed ; and now i looked back upon my father 's prophetic discourse to me , that i should be miserable and have none to relieve me , which i thought was now so effectually brought to pass that i could not be worse ; for now the hand of heaven had overtaken me , and i was undone without redemption ; but , alas ! this was but a taste of the misery i was to go through , as will appear in the sequel of this story .
as my new patron , or master , had taken me home to his house , so i was in hopes that he would take me with him when he went to sea again , believing that it would some time or other be his fate to be taken by a spanish or portugal man-of-war ; and that then i should be set at liberty . but this hope of mine was soon taken away ; for when he went to sea , he left me on shore to look after his little garden , and do the common drudgery of slaves about his house ; and when he came home again from his cruise , he ordered me to lie in the cabin to look after the ship .
here i meditated nothing but my escape , and what method i might take to effect it , but found no way that had the least probability in it ; nothing presented to make the supposition of it rational ; for i had nobody to communicate it to that would embark with me - no fellow-slave , no englishman , irishman , or scotchman there but myself ; so that for two years , though i often pleased myself with the imagination , yet i never had the least encouraging prospect of putting it in practice .
after about two years , an odd circumstance presented itself , which put the old thought of making some attempt for my liberty again in my head .
my patron lying at home longer than usual without fitting out his ship , which , as i heard , was for want of money , he used constantly , once or twice a week , sometimes oftener if the weather was fair , to take the ship 's pinnace and go out into the road a-fishing ; and as he always took me and young maresco with him to row the boat , we made him very merry , and i proved very dexterous in catching fish ; insomuch that sometimes he would send me with a moor , one of his kinsmen , and the youth - the maresco , as they called him - to catch a dish of fish for him .
it happened one time , that going a-fishing in a calm morning , a fog rose so thick that , though we were not half a league from the shore , we lost sight of it ; and rowing we knew not whither or which way , we laboured all day , and all the next night ; and when the morning came we found we had pulled off to sea instead of pulling in for the shore ; and that we were at least two leagues from the shore .
however , we got well in again , though with a great deal of labour and some danger ; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morning ; but we were all very hungry .
but our patron , warned by this disaster , resolved to take more care of himself for the future ; and having lying by him the longboat of our english ship that he had taken , he resolved he would not go a-fishing any more without a compass and some provision ; so he ordered the carpenter of his ship , who also was an english slave , to build a little state-room , or cabin , in the middle of the long-boat , like that of a barge , with a place to stand behind it to steer , and haul home the main-sheet ; the room before for a hand or two to stand and work the sails .
she sailed with what we call a shoulder-of-mutton sail ; and the boom jibed over the top of the cabin , which lay very snug and low , and had in it room for him to lie , with a slave or two , and a table to eat on , with some small lockers to put in some bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink ; and his bread , rice , and coffee .
we went frequently out with this boat a-fishing ; and as i was most dexterous to catch fish for him , he never went without me .
it happened that he had appointed to go out in this boat , either for pleasure or for fish , with two or three moors of some distinction in that place , and for whom he had provided extraordinarily , and had , therefore , sent on board the boat overnight a larger store of provisions than ordinary ; and had ordered me to get ready three fusees with powder and shot , which were on board his ship , for that they designed some sport of fowling as well as fishing .
i got all things ready as he had directed , and waited the next morning with the boat washed clean , her ancient and pendants out , and everything to accommodate his guests ; when by-and-by my patron came on board alone , and told me his guests had put off going from some business that fell out , and ordered me , with the man and boy , as usual , to go out with the boat and catch them some fish , for that his friends were to sup at his house , and commanded that as soon as i got some fish i should bring it home to his house ; all which i prepared to do .
this moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my thoughts , for now i found i was likely to have a little ship at my command ; and my master being gone , i prepared to furnish myself , not for fishing business , but for a voyage ; though i knew not , neither did i so much as consider , whither i should steer - anywhere to get out of that place was my desire .
my first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this moor , to get something for our subsistence on board ; for i told him we must not presume to eat of our patron 's bread .
he said that was true ; so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit , and three jars of fresh water , into the boat . i knew where my patron 's case of bottles stood , which it was evident , by the make , were taken out of some english prize , and i conveyed them into the boat while the moor was on shore , as if they had been there before for our master .
i conveyed also a great lump of beeswax into the boat , which weighed about half a hundred-weight , with a parcel of twine or thread , a hatchet , a saw , and a hammer , all of which were of great use to us afterwards , especially the wax , to make candles .
another trick i tried upon him , which he innocently came into also : his name was ismael , which they call muley , or moely ; so i called to him - " moely , " said i , " our patron 's guns are on board the boat ; can you not get a little powder and shot ?
it may be we may kill some alcamies ( a fowl like our curlews ) for ourselves , for i know he keeps the gunner 's stores in the ship . "
" yes , " says he , " i 'll bring some ; " and accordingly he brought a great leather pouch , which held a pound and a half of powder , or rather more ; and another with shot , that had five or six pounds , with some bullets , and put all into the boat . at the same time i had found some powder of my master 's in the great cabin , with which i filled one of the large bottles in the case , which was almost empty , pouring what was in it into another ; and thus furnished with everything needful , we sailed out of the port to fish .
the castle , which is at the entrance of the port , knew who we were , and took no notice of us ; and we were not above a mile out of the port before we hauled in our sail and set us down to fish .
the wind blew from the n.n.e. , which was contrary to my desire , for had it blown southerly i had been sure to have made the coast of spain , and at least reached to the bay of cadiz ; but my resolutions were , blow which way it would , i would be gone from that horrid place where i was , and leave the rest to fate .
after we had fished some time and caught nothing - for when i had fish on my hook i would not pull them up , that he might not see them - i said to the moor , " this will not do ; our master will not be thus served ; we must stand farther off . "
he , thinking no harm , agreed , and being in the head of the boat , set the sails ; and , as i had the helm , i ran the boat out near a league farther , and then brought her to , as if i would fish ; when , giving the boy the helm , i stepped forward to where the moor was , and making as if i stooped for something behind him , i took him by surprise with my arm under his waist , and tossed him clear overboard into the sea .
he rose immediately , for he swam like a cork , and called to me , begged to be taken in , told me he would go all over the world with me .
he swam so strong after the boat that he would have reached me very quickly , there being but little wind ; upon which i stepped into the cabin , and fetching one of the fowling-pieces , i presented it at him , and told him i had done him no hurt , and if he would be quiet i would do him none .
" but , " said i , " you swim well enough to reach to the shore , and the sea is calm ; make the best of your way to shore , and i will do you no harm ; but if you come near the boat i 'll shoot you through the head , for i am resolved to have my liberty ; " so he turned himself about , and swam for the shore , and i make no doubt but he reached it with ease , for he was an excellent swimmer .
i could have been content to have taken this moor with me , and have drowned the boy , but there was no venturing to trust him .
when he was gone , i turned to the boy , whom they called xury , and said to him , " xury , if you will be faithful to me , i 'll make you a great man ; but if you will not stroke your face to be true to me " - that is , swear by mahomet and his father 's beard - " i must throw you into the sea too . "
the boy smiled in my face , and spoke so innocently that i could not distrust him , and swore to be faithful to me , and go all over the world with me .
while i was in view of the moor that was swimming , i stood out directly to sea with the boat , rather stretching to windward , that they might think me gone towards the straits ' mouth ( as indeed any one that had been in their wits must have been supposed to do ) : for who would have supposed we were sailed on to the southward , to the truly barbarian coast , where whole nations of negroes were sure to surround us with their canoes and destroy us ; where we could not go on shore but we should be devoured by savage beasts , or more merciless savages of human kind .
but as soon as it grew dusk in the evening , i changed my course , and steered directly south and by east , bending my course a little towards the east , that i might keep in with the shore ; and having a fair , fresh gale of wind , and a smooth , quiet sea , i made such sail that i believe by the next day , at three o 'clock in the afternoon , when i first made the land , i could not be less than one hundred and fifty miles south of sallee ; quite beyond the emperor of morocco 's dominions , or indeed of any other king thereabouts , for we saw no people .
yet such was the fright i had taken of the moors , and the dreadful apprehensions i had of falling into their hands , that i would not stop , or go on shore , or come to an anchor ; the wind continuing fair till i had sailed in that manner five days ; and then the wind shifting to the southward , i concluded also that if any of our vessels were in chase of me , they also would now give over ; so i ventured to make to the coast , and came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river , i knew not what , nor where , neither what latitude , what country , what nation , or what river .
i neither saw , nor desired to see any people ; the principal thing i wanted was fresh water .
we came into this creek in the evening , resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was dark , and discover the country ; but as soon as it was quite dark , we heard such dreadful noises of the barking , roaring , and howling of wild creatures , of we knew not what kinds , that the poor boy was ready to die with fear , and begged of me not to go on shore till day .
" well , xury , " said i , " then i won 't ; but it may be that we may see men by day , who will be as bad to us as those lions . "
" then we give them the shoot gun , " says xury , laughing , " make them run wey . " such english xury spoke by conversing among us slaves .
however , i was glad to see the boy so cheerful , and i gave him a dram ( out of our patron 's case of bottles ) to cheer him up .
after all , xury 's advice was good , and i took it ; we dropped our little anchor , and lay still all night ; i say still , for we slept none ; for in two or three hours we saw vast great creatures ( we knew not what to call them ) of many sorts , come down to the sea-shore and run into the water , wallowing and washing themselves for the pleasure of cooling themselves ; and they made such hideous howlings and yellings , that i never indeed heard the like .
xury was dreadfully frighted , and indeed so was i too ; but we were both more frighted when we heard one of these mighty creatures come swimming towards our boat ; we could not see him , but we might hear him by his blowing to be a monstrous huge and furious beast .
xury said it was a lion , and it might be so for aught i know ; but poor xury cried to me to weigh the anchor and row away ;
" no , " says i , " xury ; we can slip our cable , with the buoy to it , and go off to sea ; they cannot follow us far . "
i had no sooner said so , but i perceived the creature ( whatever it was ) within two oars ' length , which something surprised me ; however , i immediately stepped to the cabin door , and taking up my gun , fired at him ; upon which he immediately turned about and swam towards the shore again .
but it is impossible to describe the horrid noises , and hideous cries and howlings that were raised , as well upon the edge of the shore as higher within the country , upon the noise or report of the gun , a thing i have some reason to believe those creatures had never heard before : this convinced me that there was no going on shore for us in the night on that coast , and how to venture on shore in the day was another question too ; for to have fallen into the hands of any of the savages had been as bad as to have fallen into the hands of the lions and tigers ; at least we were equally apprehensive of the danger of it .
be that as it would , we were obliged to go on shore somewhere or other for water , for we had not a pint left in the boat ; when and where to get to it was the point .
xury said , if i would let him go on shore with one of the jars , he would find if there was any water , and bring some to me .
i asked him why he would go ? why i should not go , and he stay in the boat ?
the boy answered with so much affection as made me love him ever after .
says he , " if wild mans come , they eat me , you go wey . "
" well , xury , " said i , " we will both go and if the wild mans come , we will kill them , they shall eat neither of us . " so i gave xury a piece of rusk bread to eat , and a dram out of our patron 's case of bottles which i mentioned before ; and we hauled the boat in as near the shore as we thought was proper , and so waded on shore , carrying nothing but our arms and two jars for water .
i did not care to go out of sight of the boat , fearing the coming of canoes with savages down the river ; but the boy seeing a low place about a mile up the country , rambled to it , and by-and-by i saw him come running towards me .
i thought he was pursued by some savage , or frighted with some wild beast , and i ran forward towards him to help him ; but when i came nearer to him i saw something hanging over his shoulders , which was a creature that he had shot , like a hare , but different in colour , and longer legs ; however , we were very glad of it , and it was very good meat ; but the great joy that poor xury came with , was to tell me he had found good water and seen no wild mans .
but we found afterwards that we need not take such pains for water , for a little higher up the creek where we were we found the water fresh when the tide was out , which flowed but a little way up ; so we filled our jars , and feasted on the hare he had killed , and prepared to go on our way , having seen no footsteps of any human creature in that part of the country .
as i had been one voyage to this coast before , i knew very well that the islands of the canaries , and the cape de verde islands also , lay not far off from the coast . but as i had no instruments to take an observation to know what latitude we were in , and not exactly knowing , or at least remembering , what latitude they were in , i knew not where to look for them , or when to stand off to sea towards them ; otherwise i might now easily have found some of these islands .
but my hope was , that if i stood along this coast till i came to that part where the english traded , i should find some of their vessels upon their usual design of trade , that would relieve and take us in .
by the best of my calculation , that place where i now was must be that country which , lying between the emperor of morocco 's dominions and the negroes , lies waste and uninhabited , except by wild beasts ; the negroes having abandoned it and gone farther south for fear of the moors , and the moors not thinking it worth inhabiting by reason of its barrenness ; and indeed , both forsaking it because of the prodigious number of tigers , lions , leopards , and other furious creatures which harbour there ; so that the moors use it for their hunting only , where they go like an army , two or three thousand men at a time ; and indeed for near a hundred miles together upon this coast we saw nothing but a waste , uninhabited country by day , and heard nothing but howlings and roaring of wild beasts by night .
once or twice in the daytime i thought i saw the pico of teneriffe , being the high top of the mountain teneriffe in the canaries , and had a great mind to venture out , in hopes of reaching thither ; but having tried twice , i was forced in again by contrary winds , the sea also going too high for my little vessel ; so , i resolved to pursue my first design , and keep along the shore .
several times i was obliged to land for fresh water , after we had left this place ; and once in particular , being early in morning , we came to an anchor under a little point of land , which was pretty high ; and the tide beginning to flow , we lay still to go farther in .
xury , whose eyes were more about him than it seems mine were , calls softly to me , and tells me that we had best go farther off the shore ; " for , " says he , " look , yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side of that hillock , fast asleep . "
i looked where he pointed , and saw a dreadful monster indeed , for it was a terrible , great lion that lay on the side of the shore , under the shade of a piece of the hill that hung as it were a little over him .
" xury , " says i , " you shall on shore and kill him . "
xury , looked frighted , and said , " me kill ! he eat me at one mouth ! " - one mouthful he meant .
however , i said no more to the boy , but bade him lie still , and i took our biggest gun , which was almost musket-bore , and loaded it with a good charge of powder , and with two slugs , and laid it down ; then i loaded another gun with two bullets ; and the third ( for we had three pieces ) i loaded with five smaller bullets .
i took the best aim i could with the first piece to have shot him in the head , but he lay so with his leg raised a little above his nose , that the slugs hit his leg about the knee and broke the bone .
he started up , growling at first , but finding his leg broken , fell down again ; and then got upon three legs , and gave the most hideous roar that ever i heard .
i was a little surprised that i had not hit him on the head ; however , i took up the second piece immediately , and though he began to move off , fired again , and shot him in the head , and had the pleasure to see him drop and make but little noise , but lie struggling for life .
then xury took heart , and would have me let him go on shore .
" well , go , " said i : so the boy jumped into the water and taking a little gun in one hand , swam to shore with the other hand , and coming close to the creature , put the muzzle of the piece to his ear , and shot him in the head again , which despatched him quite .
this was game indeed to us , but this was no food ; and i was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to us .
however , xury said he would have some of him ; so he comes on board , and asked me to give him the hatchet .
" for what , xury ? " said i. " me cut off his head , " said he .
however , xury could not cut off his head , but he cut off a foot , and brought it with him , and it was a monstrous great one .
i bethought myself , however , that , perhaps the skin of him might , one way or other , be of some value to us ; and i resolved to take off his skin if i could .
so xury and i went to work with him ; but xury was much the better workman at it , for i knew very ill how to do it .
indeed , it took us both up the whole day , but at last we got off the hide of him , and spreading it on the top of our cabin , the sun effectually dried it in two days ' time , and it afterwards served me to lie upon .
after this stop , we made on to the southward continually for ten or twelve days , living very sparingly on our provisions , which began to abate very much , and going no oftener to the shore than we were obliged to for fresh water .
my design in this was to make the river gambia or senegal , that is to say anywhere about the cape de verde , where i was in hopes to meet with some european ship ; and if i did not , i knew not what course i had to take , but to seek for the islands , or perish there among the negroes . i knew that all the ships from europe , which sailed either to the coast of guinea or to brazil , or to the east indies , made this cape , or those islands ; and , in a word , i put the whole of my fortune upon this single point , either that i must meet with some ship or must perish .
when i had pursued this resolution about ten days longer , as i have said , i began to see that the land was inhabited ; and in two or three places , as we sailed by , we saw people stand upon the shore to look at us ; we could also perceive they were quite black and naked .
i was once inclined to have gone on shore to them ; but xury was my better counsellor , and said to me , " no go , no go . "
however , i hauled in nearer the shore that i might talk to them , and i found they ran along the shore by me a good way .
i observed they had no weapons in their hand , except one , who had a long slender stick , which xury said was a lance , and that they could throw them a great way with good aim ; so i kept at a distance , but talked with them by signs as well as i could ; and particularly made signs for something to eat : they beckoned to me to stop my boat , and they would fetch me some meat .
upon this i lowered the top of my sail and lay by , and two of them ran up into the country , and in less than half-an-hour came back , and brought with them two pieces of dried flesh and some corn , such as is the produce of their country ; but we neither knew what the one or the other was ; however , we were willing to accept it , but how to come at it was our next dispute , for i would not venture on shore to them , and they were as much afraid of us ; but they took a safe way for us all , for they brought it to the shore and laid it down , and went and stood a great way off till we fetched it on board , and then came close to us again .
we made signs of thanks to them , for we had nothing to make them amends ; but an opportunity offered that very instant to oblige them wonderfully ; for while we were lying by the shore came two mighty creatures , one pursuing the other ( as we took it ) with great fury from the mountains towards the sea ; whether it was the male pursuing the female , or whether they were in sport or in rage , we could not tell , any more than we could tell whether it was usual or strange , but i believe it was the latter ; because , in the first place , those ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the night ; and , in the second place , we found the people terribly frighted , especially the women .
the man that had the lance or dart did not fly from them , but the rest did ; however , as the two creatures ran directly into the water , they did not offer to fall upon any of the negroes , but plunged themselves into the sea , and swam about , as if they had come for their diversion ; at last one of them began to come nearer our boat than at first i expected ; but i lay ready for him , for i had loaded my gun with all possible expedition , and bade xury load both the others .
as soon as he came fairly within my reach , i fired , and shot him directly in the head ; immediately he sank down into the water , but rose instantly , and plunged up and down , as if he were struggling for life , and so indeed he was ; he immediately made to the shore ; but between the wound , which was his mortal hurt , and the strangling of the water , he died just before he reached the shore .
it is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor creatures at the noise and fire of my gun : some of them were even ready to die for fear , and fell down as dead with the very terror ; but when they saw the creature dead , and sunk in the water , and that i made signs to them to come to the shore , they took heart and came , and began to search for the creature .
i found him by his blood staining the water ; and by the help of a rope , which i slung round him , and gave the negroes to haul , they dragged him on shore , and found that it was a most curious leopard , spotted , and fine to an admirable degree ; and the negroes held up their hands with admiration , to think what it was i had killed him with .
the other creature , frighted with the flash of fire and the noise of the gun , swam on shore , and ran up directly to the mountains from whence they came ; nor could i , at that distance , know what it was .
i found quickly the negroes wished to eat the flesh of this creature , so i was willing to have them take it as a favour from me ; which , when i made signs to them that they might take him , they were very thankful for .
immediately they fell to work with him ; and though they had no knife , yet , with a sharpened piece of wood , they took off his skin as readily , and much more readily , than we could have done with a knife .
they offered me some of the flesh , which i declined , pointing out that i would give it them ; but made signs for the skin , which they gave me very freely , and brought me a great deal more of their provisions , which , though i did not understand , yet i accepted .
i then made signs to them for some water , and held out one of my jars to them , turning it bottom upward , to show that it was empty , and that i wanted to have it filled .
they called immediately to some of their friends , and there came two women , and brought a great vessel made of earth , and burnt , as i supposed , in the sun , this they set down to me , as before , and i sent xury on shore with my jars , and filled them all three .
the women were as naked as the men .
i was now furnished with roots and corn , such as it was , and water ; and leaving my friendly negroes , i made forward for about eleven days more , without offering to go near the shore , till i saw the land run out a great length into the sea , at about the distance of four or five leagues before me ; and the sea being very calm , i kept a large offing to make this point .
at length , doubling the point , at about two leagues from the land , i saw plainly land on the other side , to seaward ; then i concluded , as it was most certain indeed , that this was the cape de verde , and those the islands called , from thence , cape de verde islands .
however , they were at a great distance , and i could not well tell what i had best to do ; for if i should be taken with a fresh of wind , i might neither reach one or other .
in this dilemma , as i was very pensive , i stepped into the cabin and sat down , xury having the helm ; when , on a sudden , the boy cried out , " master , master , a ship with a sail ! " and the foolish boy was frighted out of his wits , thinking it must needs be some of his master 's ships sent to pursue us , but i knew we were far enough out of their reach .
i jumped out of the cabin , and immediately saw , not only the ship , but that it was a portuguese ship ; and , as i thought , was bound to the coast of guinea , for negroes .
but , when i observed the course she steered , i was soon convinced they were bound some other way , and did not design to come any nearer to the shore ; upon which i stretched out to sea as much as i could , resolving to speak with them if possible .
with all the sail i could make , i found i should not be able to come in their way , but that they would be gone by before i could make any signal to them : but after i had crowded to the utmost , and began to despair , they , it seems , saw by the help of their glasses that it was some european boat , which they supposed must belong to some ship that was lost ; so they shortened sail to let me come up .
i was encouraged with this , and as i had my patron 's ancient on board , i made a waft of it to them , for a signal of distress , and fired a gun , both which they saw ; for they told me they saw the smoke , though they did not hear the gun .
upon these signals they very kindly brought to , and lay by for me ; and in about three hours ; time i came up with them .
they asked me what i was , in portuguese , and in spanish , and in french , but i understood none of them ; but at last a scotch sailor , who was on board , called to me : and i answered him , and told him i was an englishman , that i had made my escape out of slavery from the moors , at sallee ; they then bade me come on board , and very kindly took me in , and all my goods .
it was an inexpressible joy to me , which any one will believe , that i was thus delivered , as i esteemed it , from such a miserable and almost hopeless condition as i was in ; and i immediately offered all i had to the captain of the ship , as a return for my deliverance ; but he generously told me he would take nothing from me , but that all i had should be delivered safe to me when i came to the brazils .
" for , " says he , " i have saved your life on no other terms than i would be glad to be saved myself : and it may , one time or other , be my lot to be taken up in the same condition .
besides , " said he , " when i carry you to the brazils , so great a way from your own country , if i should take from you what you have , you will be starved there , and then i only take away that life i have given .
no , no , " says he : " seignior inglese " ( mr. englishman ) , " i will carry you thither in charity , and those things will help to buy your subsistence there , and your passage home again . "
as he was charitable in this proposal , so he was just in the performance to a tittle ; for he ordered the seamen that none should touch anything that i had : then he took everything into his own possession , and gave me back an exact inventory of them , that i might have them , even to my three earthen jars .
as to my boat , it was a very good one ; and that he saw , and told me he would buy it of me for his ship 's use ; and asked me what i would have for it ?
i told him he had been so generous to me in everything that i could not offer to make any price of the boat , but left it entirely to him : upon which he told me he would give me a note of hand to pay me eighty pieces of eight for it at brazil ; and when it came there , if any one offered to give more , he would make it up .
he offered me also sixty pieces of eight more for my boy xury , which i was loth to take ; not that i was unwilling to let the captain have him , but i was very loth to sell the poor boy 's liberty , who had assisted me so faithfully in procuring my own .
however , when i let him know my reason , he owned it to be just , and offered me this medium , that he would give the boy an obligation to set him free in ten years , if he turned christian : upon this , and xury saying he was willing to go to him , i let the captain have him .
we had a very good voyage to the brazils , and i arrived in the bay de todos los santos , or all saints ' bay , in about twenty-two days after .
and now i was once more delivered from the most miserable of all conditions of life ; and what to do next with myself i was to consider .
the generous treatment the captain gave me i can never enough remember : he would take nothing of me for my passage , gave me twenty ducats for the leopard 's skin , and forty for the lion 's skin , which i had in my boat , and caused everything i had in the ship to be punctually delivered to me ; and what i was willing to sell he bought of me , such as the case of bottles , two of my guns , and a piece of the lump of beeswax - for i had made candles of the rest : in a word , i made about two hundred and twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo ; and with this stock i went on shore in the brazils .
i had not been long here before i was recommended to the house of a good honest man like himself , who had an _ ingenio _ , as they call it ( that is , a plantation and a sugar-house ) .
i lived with him some time , and acquainted myself by that means with the manner of planting and making of sugar ; and seeing how well the planters lived , and how they got rich suddenly , i resolved , if i could get a licence to settle there , i would turn planter among them : resolving in the meantime to find out some way to get my money , which i had left in london , remitted to me .
to this purpose , getting a kind of letter of naturalisation , i purchased as much land that was uncured as my money would reach , and formed a plan for my plantation and settlement ; such a one as might be suitable to the stock which i proposed to myself to receive from england .
i had a neighbour , a portuguese , of lisbon , but born of english parents , whose name was wells , and in much such circumstances as i was .
i call him my neighbour , because his plantation lay next to mine , and we went on very sociably together .
my stock was but low , as well as his ; and we rather planted for food than anything else , for about two years .
however , we began to increase , and our land began to come into order ; so that the third year we planted some tobacco , and made each of us a large piece of ground ready for planting canes in the year to come .
but we both wanted help ; and now i found , more than before , i had done wrong in parting with my boy xury .
but , alas ! for me to do wrong that never did right , was no great wonder .
i hail no remedy but to go on : i had got into an employment quite remote to my genius , and directly contrary to the life i delighted in , and for which i forsook my father 's house , and broke through all his good advice . nay , i was coming into the very middle station , or upper degree of low life , which my father advised me to before , and which , if i resolved to go on with , i might as well have stayed at home , and never have fatigued myself in the world as i had done ; and i used often to say to myself , i could have done this as well in england , among my friends , as have gone five thousand miles off to do it among strangers and savages , in a wilderness , and at such a distance as never to hear from any part of the world that had the least knowledge of me .
in this manner i used to look upon my condition with the utmost regret .
i had nobody to converse with , but now and then this neighbour ; no work to be done , but by the labour of my hands ; and i used to say , i lived just like a man cast away upon some desolate island , that had nobody there but himself .
but how just has it been - and how should all men reflect , that when they compare their present conditions with others that are worse , heaven may oblige them to make the exchange , and be convinced of their former felicity by their experience - i say , how just has it been , that the truly solitary life i reflected on , in an island of mere desolation , should be my lot , who had so often unjustly compared it with the life which i then led , in which , had i continued , i had in all probability been exceeding prosperous and rich .
i was in some degree settled in my measures for carrying on the plantation before my kind friend , the captain of the ship that took me up at sea , went back - for the ship remained there , in providing his lading and preparing for his voyage , nearly three months - when telling him what little stock i had left behind me in london , he gave me this friendly and sincere advice : - " seignior inglese , " says he ( for so he always called me ) , " if you will give me letters , and a procuration in form to me , with orders to the person who has your money in london to send your effects to lisbon , to such persons as i shall direct , and in such goods as are proper for this country , i will bring you the produce of them , god willing , at my return ; but , since human affairs are all subject to changes and disasters , i would have you give orders but for one hundred pounds sterling , which , you say , is half your stock , and let the hazard be run for the first ; so that , if it come safe , you may order the rest the same way , and , if it miscarry , you may have the other half to have recourse to for your supply . "
this was so wholesome advice , and looked so friendly , that i could not but be convinced it was the best course i could take ; so i accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman with whom i had left my money , and a procuration to the portuguese captain , as he desired .
i wrote the english captain 's widow a full account of all my adventures - my slavery , escape , and how i had met with the portuguese captain at sea , the humanity of his behaviour , and what condition i was now in , with all other necessary directions for my supply ; and when this honest captain came to lisbon , he found means , by some of the english merchants there , to send over , not the order only , but a full account of my story to a merchant in london , who represented it effectually to her ; whereupon she not only delivered the money , but out of her own pocket sent the portugal captain a very handsome present for his humanity and charity to me .
the merchant in london , vesting this hundred pounds in english goods , such as the captain had written for , sent them directly to him at lisbon , and he brought them all safe to me to the brazils ; among which , without my direction ( for i was too young in my business to think of them ) , he had taken care to have all sorts of tools , ironwork , and utensils necessary for my plantation , and which were of great use to me .
when this cargo arrived i thought my fortune made , for i was surprised with the joy of it ; and my stood steward , the captain , had laid out the five pounds , which my friend had sent him for a present for himself , to purchase and bring me over a servant , under bond for six years ' service , and would not accept of any consideration , except a little tobacco , which i would have him accept , being of my own produce .
neither was this all ; for my goods being all english manufacture , such as cloths , stuffs , baize , and things particularly valuable and desirable in the country , i found means to sell them to a very great advantage ; so that i might say i had more than four times the value of my first cargo , and was now infinitely beyond my poor neighbour - i mean in the advancement of my plantation ; for the first thing i did , i bought me a negro slave , and an european servant also - i mean another besides that which the captain brought me from lisbon .
but as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means of our greatest adversity , so it was with me .
i went on the next year with great success in my plantation : i raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on my own ground , more than i had disposed of for necessaries among my neighbours ; and these fifty rolls , being each of above a hundredweight , were well cured , and laid by against the return of the fleet from lisbon : and now increasing in business and wealth , my head began to be full of projects and undertakings beyond my reach ; such as are , indeed , often the ruin of the best heads in business .
had i continued in the station i was now in , i had room for all the happy things to have yet befallen me for which my father so earnestly recommended a quiet , retired life , and of which he had so sensibly described the middle station of life to be full of ; but other things attended me , and i was still to be the wilful agent of all my own miseries ; and particularly , to increase my fault , and double the reflections upon myself , which in my future sorrows i should have leisure to make , all these miscarriages were procured by my apparent obstinate adhering to my foolish inclination of wandering abroad , and pursuing that inclination , in contradiction to the clearest views of doing myself good in a fair and plain pursuit of those prospects , and those measures of life , which nature and providence concurred to present me with , and to make my duty .
as i had once done thus in my breaking away from my parents , so i could not be content now , but i must go and leave the happy view i had of being a rich and thriving man in my new plantation , only to pursue a rash and immoderate desire of rising faster than the nature of the thing admitted ; and thus i cast myself down again into the deepest gulf of human misery that ever man fell into , or perhaps could be consistent with life and a state of health in the world .
to come , then , by the just degrees to the particulars of this part of my story . you may suppose , that having now lived almost four years in the brazils , and beginning to thrive and prosper very well upon my plantation , i had not only learned the language , but had contracted acquaintance and friendship among my fellow-planters , as well as among the merchants at st. salvador , which was our port ; and that , in my discourses among them , i had frequently given them an account of my two voyages to the coast of guinea : the manner of trading with the negroes there , and how easy it was to purchase upon the coast for trifles - such as beads , toys , knives , scissors , hatchets , bits of glass , and the like - not only gold-dust , guinea grains , elephants ' teeth , & c . , but negroes , for the service of the brazils , in great numbers .
they listened always very attentively to my discourses on these heads , but especially to that part which related to the buying of negroes , which was a trade at that time , not only not far entered into , but , as far as it was , had been carried on by assientos , or permission of the kings of spain and portugal , and engrossed in the public stock : so that few negroes were bought , and these excessively dear .
it happened , being in company with some merchants and planters of my acquaintance , and talking of those things very earnestly , three of them came to me next morning , and told me they had been musing very much upon what i had discoursed with them of the last night , and they came to make a secret proposal to me ; and , after enjoining me to secrecy , they told me that they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to guinea ; that they had all plantations as well as i , and were straitened for nothing so much as servants ; that as it was a trade that could not be carried on , because they could not publicly sell the negroes when they came home , so they desired to make but one voyage , to bring the negroes on shore privately , and divide them among their own plantations ; and , in a word , the question was whether i would go their supercargo in the ship , to manage the trading part upon the coast of guinea ; and they offered me that i should have my equal share of the negroes , without providing any part of the stock .
this was a fair proposal , it must be confessed , had it been made to any one that had not had a settlement and a plantation of his own to look after , which was in a fair way of coming to be very considerable , and with a good stock upon it ; but for me , that was thus entered and established , and had nothing to do but to go on as i had begun , for three or four years more , and to have sent for the other hundred pounds from england ; and who in that time , and with that little addition , could scarce have failed of being worth three or four thousand pounds sterling , and that increasing too - for me to think of such a voyage was the most preposterous thing that ever man in such circumstances could be guilty of .
but i , that was born to be my own destroyer , could no more resist the offer than i could restrain my first rambling designs when my father ' good counsel was lost upon me .
in a word , i told them i would go with all my heart , if they would undertake to look after my plantation in my absence , and would dispose of it to such as i should direct , if i miscarried .
this they all engaged to do , and entered into writings or covenants to do so ; and i made a formal will , disposing of my plantation and effects in case of my death , making the captain of the ship that had saved my life , as before , my universal heir , but obliging him to dispose of my effects as i had directed in my will ; one half of the produce being to himself , and the other to be shipped to england .
in short , i took all possible caution to preserve my effects and to keep up my plantation .
had i used half as much prudence to have looked into my own interest , and have made a judgment of what i ought to have done and not to have done , i had certainly never gone away from so prosperous an undertaking , leaving all the probable views of a thriving circumstance , and gone upon a voyage to sea , attended with all its common hazards , to say nothing of the reasons i had to expect particular misfortunes to myself .
but i was hurried on , and obeyed blindly the dictates of my fancy rather than my reason ; and , accordingly , the ship being fitted out , and the cargo furnished , and all things done , as by agreement , by my partners in the voyage , i went on board in an evil hour , the 1st september 1659 , being the same day eight years that i went from my father and mother at hull , in order to act the rebel to their authority , and the fool to my own interests .
our ship was about one hundred and twenty tons burden , carried six guns and fourteen men , besides the master , his boy , and myself .
we had on board no large cargo of goods , except of such toys as were fit for our trade with the negroes , such as beads , bits of glass , shells , and other trifles , especially little looking-glasses , knives , scissors , hatchets , and the like .
the same day i went on board we set sail , standing away to the northward upon our own coast , with design to stretch over for the african coast when we came about ten or twelve degrees of northern latitude , which , it seems , was the manner of course in those days .
we had very good weather , only excessively hot , all the way upon our own coast , till we came to the height of cape st. augustino ; from whence , keeping further off at sea , we lost sight of land , and steered as if we were bound for the isle fernando de noronha , holding our course n.e. by n. , and leaving those isles on the east .
in this course we passed the line in about twelve days ' time , and were , by our last observation , in seven degrees twenty-two minutes northern latitude , when a violent tornado , or hurricane , took us quite out of our knowledge .
it began from the south-east , came about to the north-west , and then settled in the north-east ; from whence it blew in such a terrible manner , that for twelve days together we could do nothing but drive , and , scudding away before it , let it carry us whither fate and the fury of the winds directed ; and , during these twelve days , i need not say that i expected every day to be swallowed up ; nor , indeed , did any in the ship expect to save their lives .
in this distress we had , besides the terror of the storm , one of our men die of the calenture , and one man and the boy washed overboard .
about the twelfth day , the weather abating a little , the master made an observation as well as he could , and found that he was in about eleven degrees north latitude , but that he was twenty-two degrees of longitude difference west from cape st. augustino ; so that he found he was upon the coast of guiana , or the north part of brazil , beyond the river amazon , toward that of the river orinoco , commonly called the great river ; and began to consult with me what course he should take , for the ship was leaky , and very much disabled , and he was going directly back to the coast of brazil .
i was positively against that ; and looking over the charts of the sea-coast of america with him , we concluded there was no inhabited country for us to have recourse to till we came within the circle of the caribbee islands , and therefore resolved to stand away for barbadoes ; which , by keeping off at sea , to avoid the indraft of the bay or gulf of mexico , we might easily perform , as we hoped , in about fifteen days ' sail ; whereas we could not possibly make our voyage to the coast of africa without some assistance both to our ship and to ourselves .
with this design we changed our course , and steered away n.w. by w. , in order to reach some of our english islands , where i hoped for relief .
but our voyage was otherwise determined ; for , being in the latitude of twelve degrees eighteen minutes , a second storm came upon us , which carried us away with the same impetuosity westward , and drove us so out of the way of all human commerce , that , had all our lives been saved as to the sea , we were rather in danger of being devoured by savages than ever returning to our own country .
in this distress , the wind still blowing very hard , one of our men early in the morning cried out , " land ! " and we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out , in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world we were , than the ship struck upon a sand , and in a moment her motion being so stopped , the sea broke over her in such a manner that we expected we should all have perished immediately ; and we were immediately driven into our close quarters , to shelter us from the very foam and spray of the sea .
it is not easy for any one who has not been in the like condition to describe or conceive the consternation of men in such circumstances .
we knew nothing where we were , or upon what land it was we were driven - whether an island or the main , whether inhabited or not inhabited .
as the rage of the wind was still great , though rather less than at first , we could not so much as hope to have the ship hold many minutes without breaking into pieces , unless the winds , by a kind of miracle , should turn immediately about .
in a word , we sat looking upon one another , and expecting death every moment , and every man , accordingly , preparing for another world ; for there was little or nothing more for us to do in this .
that which was our present comfort , and all the comfort we had , was that , contrary to our expectation , the ship did not break yet , and that the master said the wind began to abate .
now , though we thought that the wind did a little abate , yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand , and sticking too fast for us to expect her getting off , we were in a dreadful condition indeed , and had nothing to do but to think of saving our lives as well as we could .
we had a boat at our stern just before the storm , but she was first staved by dashing against the ship 's rudder , and in the next place she broke away , and either sunk or was driven off to sea ; so there was no hope from her .
we had another boat on board , but how to get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing . however , there was no time to debate , for we fancied that the ship would break in pieces every minute , and some told us she was actually broken already .
in this distress the mate of our vessel laid hold of the boat , and with the help of the rest of the men got her slung over the ship 's side ; and getting all into her , let go , and committed ourselves , being eleven in number , to god 's mercy and the wild sea ; for though the storm was abated considerably , yet the sea ran dreadfully high upon the shore , and might be well called _ den wild zee _ , as the dutch call the sea in a storm .
and now our case was very dismal indeed ; for we all saw plainly that the sea went so high that the boat could not live , and that we should be inevitably drowned .
as to making sail , we had none , nor if we had could we have done anything with it ; so we worked at the oar towards the land , though with heavy hearts , like men going to execution ; for we all knew that when the boat came near the shore she would be dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the sea .
however , we committed our souls to god in the most earnest manner ; and the wind driving us towards the shore , we hastened our destruction with our own hands , pulling as well as we could towards land .
what the shore was , whether rock or sand , whether steep or shoal , we knew not .
the only hope that could rationally give us the least shadow of expectation was , if we might find some bay or gulf , or the mouth of some river , where by great chance we might have run our boat in , or got under the lee of the land , and perhaps made smooth water .
but there was nothing like this appeared ; but as we made nearer and nearer the shore , the land looked more frightful than the sea .
after we had rowed , or rather driven about a league and a half , as we reckoned it , a raging wave , mountain-like , came rolling astern of us , and plainly bade us expect the _ coup de grace _ .
it took us with such a fury , that it overset the boat at once ; and separating us as well from the boat as from one another , gave us no time to say , " o god ! " for we were all swallowed up in a moment .
nothing can describe the confusion of thought which i felt when i sank into the water ; for though i swam very well , yet i could not deliver myself from the waves so as to draw breath , till that wave having driven me , or rather carried me , a vast way on towards the shore , and having spent itself , went back , and left me upon the land almost dry , but half dead with the water i took in .
i had so much presence of mind , as well as breath left , that seeing myself nearer the mainland than i expected , i got upon my feet , and endeavoured to make on towards the land as fast as i could before another wave should return and take me up again ; but i soon found it was impossible to avoid it ; for i saw the sea come after me as high as a great hill , and as furious as an enemy , which i had no means or strength to contend with : my business was to hold my breath , and raise myself upon the water if i could ; and so , by swimming , to preserve my breathing , and pilot myself towards the shore , if possible , my greatest concern now being that the sea , as it would carry me a great way towards the shore when it came on , might not carry me back again with it when it gave back towards the sea .
the wave that came upon me again buried me at once twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body , and i could feel myself carried with a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore - a very great way ; but i held my breath , and assisted myself to swim still forward with all my might .
i was ready to burst with holding my breath , when , as i felt myself rising up , so , to my immediate relief , i found my head and hands shoot out above the surface of the water ; and though it was not two seconds of time that i could keep myself so , yet it relieved me greatly , gave me breath , and new courage .
i was covered again with water a good while , but not so long but i held it out ; and finding the water had spent itself , and began to return , i struck forward against the return of the waves , and felt ground again with my feet .
i stood still a few moments to recover breath , and till the waters went from me , and then took to my heels and ran with what strength i had further towards the shore .
but neither would this deliver me from the fury of the sea , which came pouring in after me again ; and twice more i was lifted up by the waves and carried forward as before , the shore being very flat .
the last time of these two had well-nigh been fatal to me , for the sea having hurried me along as before , landed me , or rather dashed me , against a piece of rock , and that with such force , that it left me senseless , and indeed helpless , as to my own deliverance ; for the blow taking my side and breast , beat the breath as it were quite out of my body ; and had it returned again immediately , i must have been strangled in the water ; but i recovered a little before the return of the waves , and seeing i should be covered again with the water , i resolved to hold fast by a piece of the rock , and so to hold my breath , if possible , till the wave went back .
now , as the waves were not so high as at first , being nearer land , i held my hold till the wave abated , and then fetched another run , which brought me so near the shore that the next wave , though it went over me , yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me away ; and the next run i took , i got to the mainland , where , to my great comfort , i clambered up the cliffs of the shore and sat me down upon the grass , free from danger and quite out of the reach of the water .
i was now landed and safe on shore , and began to look up and thank god that my life was saved , in a case wherein there was some minutes before scarce any room to hope .
i believe it is impossible to express , to the life , what the ecstasies and transports of the soul are , when it is so saved , as i may say , out of the very grave : and i do not wonder now at the custom , when a malefactor , who has the halter about his neck , is tied up , and just going to be turned off , and has a reprieve brought to him - i say , i do not wonder that they bring a surgeon with it , to let him blood that very moment they tell him of it , that the surprise may not drive the animal spirits from the heart and overwhelm him .
" for sudden joys , like griefs , confound at first . " i walked about on the shore lifting up my hands , and my whole being , as i may say , wrapped up in a contemplation of my deliverance ; making a thousand gestures and motions , which i cannot describe ; reflecting upon all my comrades that were drowned , and that there should not be one soul saved but myself ; for , as for them , i never saw them afterwards , or any sign of them , except three of their hats , one cap , and two shoes that were not fellows .
i cast my eye to the stranded vessel , when , the breach and froth of the sea being so big , i could hardly see it , it lay so far of ; and considered , lord ! how was it possible i could get on shore ?
after i had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of my condition , i began to look round me , to see what kind of place i was in , and what was next to be done ; and i soon found my comforts abate , and that , in a word , i had a dreadful deliverance ; for i was wet , had no clothes to shift me , nor anything either to eat or drink to comfort me ; neither did i see any prospect before me but that of perishing with hunger or being devoured by wild beasts ; and that which was particularly afflicting to me was , that i had no weapon , either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance , or to defend myself against any other creature that might desire to kill me for theirs .
in a word , i had nothing about me but a knife , a tobacco-pipe , and a little tobacco in a box .
this was all my provisions ; and this threw me into such terrible agonies of mind , that for a while i ran about like a madman .
night coming upon me , i began with a heavy heart to consider what would be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that country , as at night they always come abroad for their prey .
all the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that time was to get up into a thick bushy tree like a fir , but thorny , which grew near me , and where i resolved to sit all night , and consider the next day what death i should die , for as yet i saw no prospect of life .
i walked about a furlong from the shore , to see if i could find any fresh water to drink , which i did , to my great joy ; and having drank , and put a little tobacco into my mouth to prevent hunger , i went to the tree , and getting up into it , endeavoured to place myself so that if i should sleep i might not fall .
and having cut me a short stick , like a truncheon , for my defence , i took up my lodging ; and having been excessively fatigued , i fell fast asleep , and slept as comfortably as , i believe , few could have done in my condition , and found myself more refreshed with it than , i think , i ever was on such an occasion .
when i waked it was broad day , the weather clear , and the storm abated , so that the sea did not rage and swell as before .
but that which surprised me most was , that the ship was lifted off in the night from the sand where she lay by the swelling of the tide , and was driven up almost as far as the rock which i at first mentioned , where i had been so bruised by the wave dashing me against it .
this being within about a mile from the shore where i was , and the ship seeming to stand upright still , i wished myself on board , that at least i might save some necessary things for my use .
when i came down from my apartment in the tree , i looked about me again , and the first thing i found was the boat , which lay , as the wind and the sea had tossed her up , upon the land , about two miles on my right hand .
i walked as far as i could upon the shore to have got to her ; but found a neck or inlet of water between me and the boat which was about half a mile broad ; so i came back for the present , being more intent upon getting at the ship , where i hoped to find something for my present subsistence .
a little after noon i found the sea very calm , and the tide ebbed so far out that i could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship .
and here i found a fresh renewing of my grief ; for i saw evidently that if we had kept on board we had been all safe - that is to say , we had all got safe on shore , and i had not been so miserable as to be left entirety destitute of all comfort and company as i now was .
this forced tears to my eyes again ; but as there was little relief in that , i resolved , if possible , to get to the ship ; so i pulled off my clothes - for the weather was hot to extremity - and took the water .
but when i came to the ship my difficulty was still greater to know how to get on board ; for , as she lay aground , and high out of the water , there was nothing within my reach to lay hold of .
i swam round her twice , and the second time i spied a small piece of rope , which i wondered i did not see at first , hung down by the fore-chains so low , as that with great difficulty i got hold of it , and by the help of that rope i got up into the forecastle of the ship .
here i found that the ship was bulged , and had a great deal of water in her hold , but that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand , or , rather earth , that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank , and her head low , almost to the water . by this means all her quarter was free , and all that was in that part was dry ; for you may be sure my first work was to search , and to see what was spoiled and what was free .
and , first , i found that all the ship 's provisions were dry and untouched by the water , and being very well disposed to eat , i went to the bread room and filled my pockets with biscuit , and ate it as i went about other things , for i had no time to lose .
i also found some rum in the great cabin , of which i took a large dram , and which i had , indeed , need enough of to spirit me for what was before me .
now i wanted nothing but a boat to furnish myself with many things which i foresaw would be very necessary to me .
it was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had ; and this extremity roused my application .
we had several spare yards , and two or three large spars of wood , and a spare topmast or two in the ship ; i resolved to fall to work with these , and i flung as many of them overboard as i could manage for their weight , tying every one with a rope , that they might not drive away .
when this was done i went down the ship 's side , and pulling them to me , i tied four of them together at both ends as well as i could , in the form of a raft , and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon them crossways , i found i could walk upon it very well , but that it was not able to bear any great weight , the pieces being too light .
so i went to work , and with a carpenter 's saw i cut a spare topmast into three lengths , and added them to my raft , with a great deal of labour and pains .
but the hope of furnishing myself with necessaries encouraged me to go beyond what i should have been able to have done upon another occasion .
my raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight . my next care was what to load it with , and how to preserve what i laid upon it from the surf of the sea ; but i was not long considering this .
i first laid all the planks or boards upon it that i could get , and having considered well what i most wanted , i got three of the seamen 's chests , which i had broken open , and emptied , and lowered them down upon my raft ; the first of these i filled with provisions - viz. bread , rice , three dutch cheeses , five pieces of dried goat 's flesh ( which we lived much upon ) , and a little remainder of european corn , which had been laid by for some fowls which we brought to sea with us , but the fowls were killed .
there had been some barley and wheat together ; but , to my great disappointment , i found afterwards that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all .
as for liquors , i found several , cases of bottles belonging to our skipper , in which were some cordial waters ; and , in all , about five or six gallons of rack . these i stowed by themselves , there being no need to put them into the chest , nor any room for them .
while i was doing this , i found the tide begin to flow , though very calm ; and i had the mortification to see my coat , shirt , and waistcoat , which i had left on the shore , upon the sand , swim away .
as for my breeches , which were only linen , and open-kneed , i swam on board in them and my stockings .
however , this set me on rummaging for clothes , of which i found enough , but took no more than i wanted for present use , for i had others things which my eye was more upon - as , first , tools to work with on shore .
and it was after long searching that i found out the carpenter 's chest , which was , indeed , a very useful prize to me , and much more valuable than a shipload of gold would have been at that time .
i got it down to my raft , whole as it was , without losing time to look into it , for i knew in general what it contained .
my next care was for some ammunition and arms . there were two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin , and two pistols .
these i secured first , with some powder-horns and a small bag of shot , and two old rusty swords . i knew there were three barrels of powder in the ship , but knew not where our gunner had stowed them ; but with much search i found them , two of them dry and good , the third had taken water .
those two i got to my raft with the arms . and now i thought myself pretty well freighted , and began to think how i should get to shore with them , having neither sail , oar , nor rudder ; and the least capful of wind would have overset all my navigation .
i had three encouragements - 1st , a smooth , calm sea ; 2ndly , the tide rising , and setting in to the shore ; 3rdly , what little wind there was blew me towards the land .
and thus , having found two or three broken oars belonging to the boat - and , besides the tools which were in the chest , i found two saws , an axe , and a hammer ; with this cargo i put to sea .
for a mile or thereabouts my raft went very well , only that i found it drive a little distant from the place where i had landed before ; by which i perceived that there was some indraft of the water , and consequently i hoped to find some creek or river there , which i might make use of as a port to get to land with my cargo .
as i imagined , so it was .
there appeared before me a little opening of the land , and i found a strong current of the tide set into it ; so i guided my raft as well as i could , to keep in the middle of the stream .
but here i had like to have suffered a second shipwreck , which , if i had , i think verily would have broken my heart ; for , knowing nothing of the coast , my raft ran aground at one end of it upon a shoal , and not being aground at the other end , it wanted but a little that all my cargo had slipped off towards the end that was afloat , and to fallen into the water .
i did my utmost , by setting my back against the chests , to keep them in their places , but could not thrust off the raft with all my strength ; neither durst i stir from the posture i was in ; but holding up the chests with all my might , i stood in that manner near half-an-hour , in which time the rising of the water brought me a little more upon a level ; and a little after , the water still-rising , my raft floated again , and i thrust her off with the oar i had into the channel , and then driving up higher , i at length found myself in the mouth of a little river , with land on both sides , and a strong current of tide running up .
i looked on both sides for a proper place to get to shore , for i was not willing to be driven too high up the river : hoping in time to see some ships at sea , and therefore resolved to place myself as near the coast as i could .
at length i spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek , to which with great pain and difficulty i guided my raft , and at last got so near that , reaching ground with my oar , i could thrust her directly in . but here i had like to have dipped all my cargo into the sea again ; for that shore lying pretty steep - that is to say sloping - there was no place to land , but where one end of my float , if it ran on shore , would lie so high , and the other sink lower , as before , that it would endanger my cargo again .
all that i could do was to wait till the tide was at the highest , keeping the raft with my oar like an anchor , to hold the side of it fast to the shore , near a flat piece of ground , which i expected the water would flow over ; and so it did .
as soon as i found water enough - for my raft drew about a foot of water - i thrust her upon that flat piece of ground , and there fastened or moored her , by sticking my two broken oars into the ground , one on one side near one end , and one on the other side near the other end ; and thus i lay till the water ebbed away , and left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore .
my next work was to view the country , and seek a proper place for my habitation , and where to stow my goods to secure them from whatever might happen .
where i was , i yet knew not ; whether on the continent or on an island ; whether inhabited or not inhabited ; whether in danger of wild beasts or not .
there was a hill not above a mile from me , which rose up very steep and high , and which seemed to overtop some other hills , which lay as in a ridge from it northward .
i took out one of the fowling-pieces , and one of the pistols , and a horn of powder ; and thus armed , i travelled for discovery up to the top of that hill , where , after i had with great labour and difficulty got to the top , i saw my fate , to my great affliction - viz. that i was in an island environed every way with the sea : no land to be seen except some rocks , which lay a great way off ; and two small islands , less than this , which lay about three leagues to the west .
i found also that the island i was in was barren , and , as i saw good reason to believe , uninhabited except by wild beasts , of whom , however , i saw none .
yet i saw abundance of fowls , but knew not their kinds ; neither when i killed them could i tell what was fit for food , and what not .
at my coming back , i shot at a great bird which i saw sitting upon a tree on the side of a great wood . i believe it was the first gun that had been fired there since the creation of the world .
i had no sooner fired , than from all parts of the wood there arose an innumerable number of fowls , of many sorts , making a confused screaming and crying , and every one according to his usual note , but not one of them of any kind that i knew .
as for the creature i killed , i took it to be a kind of hawk , its colour and beak resembling it , but it had no talons or claws more than common . its flesh was carrion , and fit for nothing .
contented with this discovery , i came back to my raft , and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore , which took me up the rest of that day .
what to do with myself at night i knew not , nor indeed where to rest , for i was afraid to lie down on the ground , not knowing but some wild beast might devour me , though , as i afterwards found , there was really no need for those fears .
however , as well as i could , i barricaded myself round with the chest and boards that i had brought on shore , and made a kind of hut for that night 's lodging .
as for food , i yet saw not which way to supply myself , except that i had seen two or three creatures like hares run out of the wood where i shot the fowl .
i now began to consider that i might yet get a great many things out of the ship which would be useful to me , and particularly some of the rigging and sails , and such other things as might come to land ; and i resolved to make another voyage on board the vessel , if possible . and as i knew that the first storm that blew must necessarily break her all in pieces , i resolved to set all other things apart till i had got everything out of the ship that i could get .
then i called a council - that is to say in my thoughts - whether i should take back the raft ; but this appeared impracticable : so i resolved to go as before , when the tide was down ; and i did so , only that i stripped before i went from my hut , having nothing on but my chequered shirt , a pair of linen drawers , and a pair of pumps on my feet .
i got on board the ship as before , and prepared a second raft ; and , having had experience of the first , i neither made this so unwieldy , nor loaded it so hard , but yet i brought away several things very useful to me ; as first , in the carpenters stores i found two or three bags full of nails and spikes , a great screw-jack , a dozen or two of hatchets , and , above all , that most useful thing called a grindstone .
all these i secured , together with several things belonging to the gunner , particularly two or three iron crows , and two barrels of musket bullets , seven muskets , another fowling-piece , with some small quantity of powder more ; a large bagful of small shot , and a great roll of sheet-lead ; but this last was so heavy , i could not hoist it up to get it over the ship 's side .
besides these things , i took all the men 's clothes that i could find , and a spare fore-topsail , a hammock , and some bedding ; and with this i loaded my second raft , and brought them all safe on shore , to my very great comfort .
i was under some apprehension , during my absence from the land , that at least my provisions might be devoured on shore : but when i came back i found no sign of any visitor ; only there sat a creature like a wild cat upon one of the chests , which , when i came towards it , ran away a little distance , and then stood still .
she sat very composed and unconcerned , and looked full in my face , as if she had a mind to be acquainted with me .
i presented my gun at her , but , as she did not understand it , she was perfectly unconcerned at it , nor did she offer to stir away ; upon which i tossed her a bit of biscuit , though by the way , i was not very free of it , for my store was not great : however , i spared her a bit , i say , and she went to it , smelled at it , and ate it , and looked ( as if pleased ) for more ; but i thanked her , and could spare no more : so she marched off .
having got my second cargo on shore - though i was fain to open the barrels of powder , and bring them by parcels , for they were too heavy , being large casks - i went to work to make me a little tent with the sail and some poles which i cut for that purpose : and into this tent i brought everything that i knew would spoil either with rain or sun ; and i piled all the empty chests and casks up in a circle round the tent , to fortify it from any sudden attempt , either from man or beast .
when i had done this , i blocked up the door of the tent with some boards within , and an empty chest set up on end without ; and spreading one of the beds upon the ground , laying my two pistols just at my head , and my gun at length by me , i went to bed for the first time , and slept very quietly all night , for i was very weary and heavy ; for the night before i had slept little , and had laboured very hard all day to fetch all those things from the ship , and to get them on shore .
i had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever was laid up , i believe , for one man : but i was not satisfied still , for while the ship sat upright in that posture , i thought i ought to get everything out of her that i could ; so every day at low water i went on board , and brought away something or other ; but particularly the third time i went i brought away as much of the rigging as i could , as also all the small ropes and rope-twine i could get , with a piece of spare canvas , which was to mend the sails upon occasion , and the barrel of wet gunpowder .
in a word , i brought away all the sails , first and last ; only that i was fain to cut them in pieces , and bring as much at a time as i could , for they were no more useful to be sails , but as mere canvas only .
but that which comforted me more still , was , that last of all , after i had made five or six such voyages as these , and thought i had nothing more to expect from the ship that was worth my meddling with - i say , after all this , i found a great hogshead of bread , three large runlets of rum , or spirits , a box of sugar , and a barrel of fine flour ; this was surprising to me , because i had given over expecting any more provisions , except what was spoiled by the water .
i soon emptied the hogshead of the bread , and wrapped it up , parcel by parcel , in pieces of the sails , which i cut out ; and , in a word , i got all this safe on shore also .
the next day i made another voyage , and now , having plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to hand out , i began with the cables .
cutting the great cable into pieces , such as i could move , i got two cables and a hawser on shore , with all the ironwork i could get ; and having cut down the spritsail-yard , and the mizzen-yard , and everything i could , to make a large raft , i loaded it with all these heavy goods , and came away .
but my good luck began now to leave me ; for this raft was so unwieldy , and so overladen , that , after i had entered the little cove where i had landed the rest of my goods , not being able to guide it so handily as i did the other , it overset , and threw me and all my cargo into the water .
as for myself , it was no great harm , for i was near the shore ; but as to my cargo , it was a great part of it lost , especially the iron , which i expected would have been of great use to me ; however , when the tide was out , i got most of the pieces of the cable ashore , and some of the iron , though with infinite labour ; for i was fain to dip for it into the water , a work which fatigued me very much .
after this , i went every day on board , and brought away what i could get .
i had been now thirteen days on shore , and had been eleven times on board the ship , in which time i had brought away all that one pair of hands could well be supposed capable to bring ; though i believe verily , had the calm weather held , i should have brought away the whole ship , piece by piece .
but preparing the twelfth time to go on board , i found the wind began to rise : however , at low water i went on board , and though i thought i had rummaged the cabin so effectually that nothing more could be found , yet i discovered a locker with drawers in it , in one of which i found two or three razors , and one pair of large scissors , with some ten or a dozen of good knives and forks : in another i found about thirty-six pounds value in money - some european coin , some brazil , some pieces of eight , some gold , and some silver .
i smiled to myself at the sight of this money : " o drug ! " said i , aloud , " what art thou good for ?
thou art not worth to me - no , not the taking off the ground ; one of those knives is worth all this heap ; i have no manner of use for thee - e 'en remain where thou art , and go to the bottom as a creature whose life is not worth saying . "
however , upon second thoughts i took it away ; and wrapping all this in a piece of canvas , i began to think of making another raft ; but while i was preparing this , i found the sky overcast , and the wind began to rise , and in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the shore .
it presently occurred to me that it was in vain to pretend to make a raft with the wind offshore ; and that it was my business to be gone before the tide of flood began , otherwise i might not be able to reach the shore at all .
accordingly , i let myself down into the water , and swam across the channel , which lay between the ship and the sands , and even that with difficulty enough , partly with the weight of the things i had about me , and partly the roughness of the water ; for the wind rose very hastily , and before it was quite high water it blew a storm .
but i had got home to my little tent , where i lay , with all my wealth about me , very secure .
it blew very hard all night , and in the morning , when i looked out , behold , no more ship was to be seen !
i was a little surprised , but recovered myself with the satisfactory reflection that i had lost no time , nor abated any diligence , to get everything out of her that could be useful to me ; and that , indeed , there was little left in her that i was able to bring away , if i had had more time .
i now gave over any more thoughts of the ship , or of anything out of her , except what might drive on shore from her wreck ; as , indeed , divers pieces of her afterwards did ; but those things were of small use to me .
my thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself against either savages , if any should appear , or wild beasts , if any were in the island ; and i had many thoughts of the method how to do this , and what kind of dwelling to make - whether i should make me a cave in the earth , or a tent upon the earth ; and , in short , i resolved upon both ; the manner and description of which , it may not be improper to give an account of .
i soon found the place i was in was not fit for my settlement , because it was upon a low , moorish ground , near the sea , and i believed it would not be wholesome , and more particularly because there was no fresh water near it ; so i resolved to find a more healthy and more convenient spot of ground .
i consulted several things in my situation , which i found would he proper for me : 1st , health and fresh water , i just now mentioned ; 2ndly , shelter from the heat of the sun ; 3rdly , security from ravenous creatures , whether man or beast ; 4thly , a view to the sea , that if god sent any ship in sight , i might not lose any advantage for my deliverance , of which i was not willing to banish all my expectation yet .
in search of a place proper for this , i found a little plain on the side of a rising hill , whose front towards this little plain was steep as a house-side , so that nothing could come down upon me from the top .
on the one side of the rock there was a hollow place , worn a little way in , like the entrance or door of a cave but there was not really any cave or way into the rock at all .
on the flat of the green , just before this hollow place , i resolved to pitch my tent .
this plain was not above a hundred yards broad , and about twice as long , and lay like a green before my door ; and , at the end of it , descended irregularly every way down into the low ground by the seaside .
it was on the n.n.w. side of the hill ; so that it was sheltered from the heat every day , till it came to a w. and by s. sun , or thereabouts , which , in those countries , is near the setting .
before i set up my tent i drew a half-circle before the hollow place , which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter from the rock , and twenty yards in its diameter from its beginning and ending .
in this half-circle i pitched two rows of strong stakes , driving them into the ground till they stood very firm like piles , the biggest end being out of the ground above five feet and a half , and sharpened on the top . the two rows did not stand above six inches from one another .
then i took the pieces of cable which i had cut in the ship , and laid them in rows , one upon another , within the circle , between these two rows of stakes , up to the top , placing other stakes in the inside , leaning against them , about two feet and a half high , like a spur to a post ; and this fence was so strong , that neither man nor beast could get into it or over it .
this cost me a great deal of time and labour , especially to cut the piles in the woods , bring them to the place , and drive them into the earth .
the entrance into this place i made to be , not by a door , but by a short ladder to go over the top ; which ladder , when i was in , i lifted over after me ; and so i was completely fenced in and fortified , as i thought , from all the world , and consequently slept secure in the night , which otherwise i could not have done ; though , as it appeared afterwards , there was no need of all this caution from the enemies that i apprehended danger from .
into this fence or fortress , with infinite labour , i carried all my riches , all my provisions , ammunition , and stores , of which you have the account above ; and i made a large tent , which to preserve me from the rains that in one part of the year are very violent there , i made double - one smaller tent within , and one larger tent above it ; and covered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin , which i had saved among the sails .
and now i lay no more for a while in the bed which i had brought on shore , but in a hammock , which was indeed a very good one , and belonged to the mate of the ship .
into this tent i brought all my provisions , and everything that would spoil by the wet ; and having thus enclosed all my goods , i made up the entrance , which till now i had left open , and so passed and repassed , as i said , by a short ladder .
when i had done this , i began to work my way into the rock , and bringing all the earth and stones that i dug down out through my tent , i laid them up within my fence , in the nature of a terrace , so that it raised the ground within about a foot and a half ; and thus i made me a cave , just behind my tent , which served me like a cellar to my house .
it cost me much labour and many days before all these things were brought to perfection ; and therefore i must go back to some other things which took up some of my thoughts .
at the same time it happened , after i had laid my scheme for the setting up my tent , and making the cave , that a storm of rain falling from a thick , dark cloud , a sudden flash of lightning happened , and after that a great clap of thunder , as is naturally the effect of it .
i was not so much surprised with the lightning as i was with the thought which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning itself - oh , my powder !
my very heart sank within me when i thought that , at one blast , all my powder might be destroyed ; on which , not my defence only , but the providing my food , as i thought , entirely depended .
i was nothing near so anxious about my own danger , though , had the powder took fire , i should never have known who had hurt me .
such impression did this make upon me , that after the storm was over i laid aside all my works , my building and fortifying , and applied myself to make bags and boxes , to separate the powder , and to keep it a little and a little in a parcel , in the hope that , whatever might come , it might not all take fire at once ; and to keep it so apart that it should not be possible to make one part fire another .
i finished this work in about a fortnight ; and i think my powder , which in all was about two hundred and forty pounds weight , was divided in not less than a hundred parcels .
as to the barrel that had been wet , i did not apprehend any danger from that ; so i placed it in my new cave , which , in my fancy , i called my kitchen ; and the rest i hid up and down in holes among the rocks , so that no wet might come to it , marking very carefully where i laid it .
in the interval of time while this was doing , i went out once at least every day with my gun , as well to divert myself as to see if i could kill anything fit for food ; and , as near as i could , to acquaint myself with what the island produced .
the first time i went out , i presently discovered that there were goats in the island , which was a great satisfaction to me ; but then it was attended with this misfortune to me - viz. that they were so shy , so subtle , and so swift of foot , that it was the most difficult thing in the world to come at them ; but i was not discouraged at this , not doubting but i might now and then shoot one , as it soon happened ; for after i had found their haunts a little , i laid wait in this manner for them : i observed if they saw me in the valleys , though they were upon the rocks , they would run away , as in a terrible fright ; but if they were feeding in the valleys , and i was upon the rocks , they took no notice of me ; from whence i concluded that , by the position of their optics , their sight was so directed downward that they did not readily see objects that were above them ; so afterwards i took this method - i always climbed the rocks first , to get above them , and then had frequently a fair mark .
the first shot i made among these creatures , i killed a she-goat , which had a little kid by her , which she gave suck to , which grieved me heartily ; for when the old one fell , the kid stood stock still by her , till i came and took her up ; and not only so , but when i carried the old one with me , upon my shoulders , the kid followed me quite to my enclosure ; upon which i laid down the dam , and took the kid in my arms , and carried it over my pale , in hopes to have bred it up tame ; but it would not eat ; so i was forced to kill it and eat it myself .
these two supplied me with flesh a great while , for i ate sparingly , and saved my provisions , my bread especially , as much as possibly i could .
having now fixed my habitation , i found it absolutely necessary to provide a place to make a fire in , and fuel to burn : and what i did for that , and also how i enlarged my cave , and what conveniences i made , i shall give a full account of in its place ; but i must now give some little account of myself , and of my thoughts about living , which , it may well be supposed , were not a few .
i had a dismal prospect of my condition ; for as i was not cast away upon that island without being driven , as is said , by a violent storm , quite out of the course of our intended voyage , and a great way , viz. some hundreds of leagues , out of the ordinary course of the trade of mankind , i had great reason to consider it as a determination of heaven , that in this desolate place , and in this desolate manner , i should end my life .
the tears would run plentifully down my face when i made these reflections ; and sometimes i would expostulate with myself why providence should thus completely ruin his creatures , and render them so absolutely miserable ; so without help , abandoned , so entirely depressed , that it could hardly be rational to be thankful for such a life .
but something always returned swift upon me to check these thoughts , and to reprove me ; and particularly one day , walking with my gun in my hand by the seaside , i was very pensive upon the subject of my present condition , when reason , as it were , expostulated with me the other way , thus : " well , you are in a desolate condition , it is true ; but , pray remember , where are the rest of you ? did not you come , eleven of you in the boat ?
where are the ten ? why were they not saved , and you lost ?
why were you singled out ?
is it better to be here or there ? "
and then i pointed to the sea . all evils are to be considered with the good that is in them , and with what worse attends them .
then it occurred to me again , how well i was furnished for my subsistence , and what would have been my case if it had not happened ( which was a hundred thousand to one ) that the ship floated from the place where she first struck , and was driven so near to the shore that i had time to get all these things out of her ; what would have been my case , if i had been forced to have lived in the condition in which i at first came on shore , without necessaries of life , or necessaries to supply and procure them ?
" particularly , " said i , aloud ( though to myself ) , " what should i have done without a gun , without ammunition , without any tools to make anything , or to work with , without clothes , bedding , a tent , or any manner of covering ? " and that now i had all these to sufficient quantity , and was in a fair way to provide myself in such a manner as to live without my gun , when my ammunition was spent : so that i had a tolerable view of subsisting , without any want , as long as i lived ; for i considered from the beginning how i would provide for the accidents that might happen , and for the time that was to come , even not only after my ammunition should be spent , but even after my health and strength should decay .
i confess i had not entertained any notion of my ammunition being destroyed at one blast - i mean my powder being blown up by lightning ; and this made the thoughts of it so surprising to me , when it lightened and thundered , as i observed just now .
and now being about to enter into a melancholy relation of a scene of silent life , such , perhaps , as was never heard of in the world before , i shall take it from its beginning , and continue it in its order .
it was by my account the 30th of september , when , in the manner as above said , i first set foot upon this horrid island ; when the sun , being to us in its autumnal equinox , was almost over my head ; for i reckoned myself , by observation , to be in the latitude of nine degrees twenty-two minutes north of the line .
after i had been there about ten or twelve days , it came into my thoughts that i should lose my reckoning of time for want of books , and pen and ink , and should even forget the sabbath days ; but to prevent this , i cut with my knife upon a large post , in capital letters - and making it into a great cross , i set it up on the shore where i first landed - " i came on shore here on the 30th september 1659 . " upon the sides of this square post i cut every day a notch with my knife , and every seventh notch was as long again as the rest , and every first day of the month as long again as that long one ; and thus i kept my calendar , or weekly , monthly , and yearly reckoning of time .
in the next place , we are to observe that among the many things which i brought out of the ship , in the several voyages which , as above mentioned , i made to it , i got several things of less value , but not at all less useful to me , which i omitted setting down before ; as , in particular , pens , ink , and paper , several parcels in the captain 's , mate 's , gunner 's and carpenter 's keeping ; three or four compasses , some mathematical instruments , dials , perspectives , charts , and books of navigation , all which i huddled together , whether i might want them or no ; also , i found three very good bibles , which came to me in my cargo from england , and which i had packed up among my things ; some portuguese books also ; and among them two or three popish prayer-books , and several other books , all which i carefully secured .
and i must not forget that we had in the ship a dog and two cats , of whose eminent history i may have occasion to say something in its place ; for i carried both the cats with me ; and as for the dog , he jumped out of the ship of himself , and swam on shore to me the day after i went on shore with my first cargo , and was a trusty servant to me many years ; i wanted nothing that he could fetch me , nor any company that he could make up to me ; i only wanted to have him talk to me , but that would not do .
as i observed before , i found pens , ink , and paper , and i husbanded them to the utmost ; and i shall show that while my ink lasted , i kept things very exact , but after that was gone i could not , for i could not make any ink by any means that i could devise .
and this put me in mind that i wanted many things notwithstanding all that i had amassed together ; and of these , ink was one ; as also a spade , pickaxe , and shovel , to dig or remove the earth ; needles , pins , and thread ; as for linen , i soon learned to want that without much difficulty .
this want of tools made every work i did go on heavily ; and it was near a whole year before i had entirely finished my little pale , or surrounded my habitation .
the piles , or stakes , which were as heavy as i could well lift , were a long time in cutting and preparing in the woods , and more , by far , in bringing home ; so that i spent sometimes two days in cutting and bringing home one of those posts , and a third day in driving it into the ground ; for which purpose i got a heavy piece of wood at first , but at last bethought myself of one of the iron crows ; which , however , though i found it , made driving those posts or piles very laborious and tedious work .
but what need i have been concerned at the tediousness of anything i had to do , seeing i had time enough to do it in ? nor had i any other employment , if that had been over , at least that i could foresee , except the ranging the island to seek for food , which i did , more or less , every day .
i now began to consider seriously my condition , and the circumstances i was reduced to ; and i drew up the state of my affairs in writing , not so much to leave them to any that were to come after me - for i was likely to have but few heirs - as to deliver my thoughts from daily poring over them , and afflicting my mind ; and as my reason began now to master my despondency , i began to comfort myself as well as i could , and to set the good against the evil , that i might have something to distinguish my case from worse ; and i stated very impartially , like debtor and creditor , the comforts i enjoyed against the miseries i suffered , thus : -
_ evil _ . _ good _ .
i am cast upon a horrible , but i am alive ; and not drowned , desolate island , void of all hope as all my ship 's company were. of recovery .
i am singled out and separated , but i am singled out , too , from as it were , from all the world , all the ship 's crew , to be spared to be miserable. from death ; and he that miraculously saved me from death can deliver me from this condition .
i am divided from mankind - a but i am not starved , and solitaire ; one banished from perishing on a barren place , human society. affording no sustenance .
i have no clothes to cover me .
but i am in a hot climate , where , if i had clothes , i could hardly wear them .
i am without any defence , or but i am cast on an island where means to resist any violence of i see no wild beasts to hurt me , man or beast. as i saw on the coast of africa ; and what if i had been shipwrecked there ?
i have no soul to speak to or but god wonderfully sent the ship relieve me. in near enough to the shore , that i have got out as many necessary things as will either supply my wants or enable me to supply myself , even as long as i live .
upon the whole , here was an undoubted testimony that there was scarce any condition in the world so miserable but there was something negative or something positive to be thankful for in it ; and let this stand as a direction from the experience of the most miserable of all conditions in this world : that we may always find in it something to comfort ourselves from , and to set , in the description of good and evil , on the credit side of the account .
having now brought my mind a little to relish my condition , and given over looking out to sea , to see if i could spy a ship - i say , giving over these things , i began to apply myself to arrange my way of living , and to make things as easy to me as i could .
i have already described my habitation , which was a tent under the side of a rock , surrounded with a strong pale of posts and cables : but i might now rather call it a wall , for i raised a kind of wall up against it of turfs , about two feet thick on the outside ; and after some time ( i think it was a year and a half ) i raised rafters from it , leaning to the rock , and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees , and such things as i could get , to keep out the rain ; which i found at some times of the year very violent .
i have already observed how i brought all my goods into this pale , and into the cave which i had made behind me .
but i must observe , too , that at first this was a confused heap of goods , which , as they lay in no order , so they took up all my place ; i had no room to turn myself : so i set myself to enlarge my cave , and work farther into the earth ; for it was a loose sandy rock , which yielded easily to the labour i bestowed on it : and so when i found i was pretty safe as to beasts of prey , i worked sideways , to the right hand , into the rock ; and then , turning to the right again , worked quite out , and made me a door to come out on the outside of my pale or fortification .
this gave me not only egress and regress , as it was a back way to my tent and to my storehouse , but gave me room to store my goods .
and now i began to apply myself to make such necessary things as i found i most wanted , particularly a chair and a table ; for without these i was not able to enjoy the few comforts i had in the world ; i could not write or eat , or do several things , with so much pleasure without a table : so i went to work .
and here i must needs observe , that as reason is the substance and origin of the mathematics , so by stating and squaring everything by reason , and by making the most rational judgment of things , every man may be , in time , master of every mechanic art .
i had never handled a tool in my life ; and yet , in time , by labour , application , and contrivance , i found at last that i wanted nothing but i could have made it , especially if i had had tools .
however , i made abundance of things , even without tools ; and some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet , which perhaps were never made that way before , and that with infinite labour .
for example , if i wanted a board , i had no other way but to cut down a tree , set it on an edge before me , and hew it flat on either side with my axe , till i brought it to be thin as a plank , and then dub it smooth with my adze .
it is true , by this method i could make but one board out of a whole tree ; but this i had no remedy for but patience , any more than i had for the prodigious deal of time and labour which it took me up to make a plank or board : but my time or labour was little worth , and so it was as well employed one way as another .
however , i made me a table and a chair , as i observed above , in the first place ; and this i did out of the short pieces of boards that i brought on my raft from the ship .
but when i had wrought out some boards as above , i made large shelves , of the breadth of a foot and a half , one over another all along one side of my cave , to lay all my tools , nails and ironwork on ; and , in a word , to separate everything at large into their places , that i might come easily at them .
i knocked pieces into the wall of the rock to hang my guns and all things that would hang up ; so that , had my cave been to be seen , it looked like a general magazine of all necessary things ; and had everything so ready at my hand , that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my goods in such order , and especially to find my stock of all necessaries so great .
and now it was that i began to keep a journal of every day 's employment ; for , indeed , at first i was in too much hurry , and not only hurry as to labour , but in too much discomposure of mind ; and my journal would have been full of many dull things ; for example , i must have said thus : " 30 _ th _ . - after i had got to shore , and escaped drowning , instead of being thankful to god for my deliverance , having first vomited , with the great quantity of salt water which had got into my stomach , and recovering myself a little , i ran about the shore wringing my hands and beating my head and face , exclaiming at my misery , and crying out , ' i was undone , undone ! ' till , tired and faint , i was forced to lie down on the ground to repose , but durst not sleep for fear of being devoured . "
some days after this , and after i had been on board the ship , and got all that i could out of her , yet i could not forbear getting up to the top of a little mountain and looking out to sea , in hopes of seeing a ship ; then fancy at a vast distance i spied a sail , please myself with the hopes of it , and then after looking steadily , till i was almost blind , lose it quite , and sit down and weep like a child , and thus increase my misery by my folly .
but having gotten over these things in some measure , and having settled my household staff and habitation , made me a table and a chair , and all as handsome about me as i could , i began to keep my journal ; of which i shall here give you the copy ( though in it will be told all these particulars over again ) as long as it lasted ; for having no more ink , i was forced to leave it off .
chapter v - builds a house - the journal
september 30 , 1659 . - i , poor miserable robinson crusoe , being shipwrecked during a dreadful storm in the offing , came on shore on this dismal , unfortunate island , which i called " the island of despair " ; all the rest of the ship 's company being drowned , and myself almost dead .
all the rest of the day i spent in afflicting myself at the dismal circumstances i was brought to - viz . i had neither food , house , clothes , weapon , nor place to fly to ; and in despair of any relief , saw nothing but death before me - either that i should be devoured by wild beasts , murdered by savages , or starved to death for want of food .
at the approach of night i slept in a tree , for fear of wild creatures ; but slept soundly , though it rained all night .
_ october _ 1 . - in the morning i saw , to my great surprise , the ship had floated with the high tide , and was driven on shore again much nearer the island ; which , as it was some comfort , on one hand - for , seeing her set upright , and not broken to pieces , i hoped , if the wind abated , i might get on board , and get some food and necessaries out of her for my relief - so , on the other hand , it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades , who , i imagined , if we had all stayed on board , might have saved the ship , or , at least , that they would not have been all drowned as they were ; and that , had the men been saved , we might perhaps have built us a boat out of the ruins of the ship to have carried us to some other part of the world .
i spent great part of this day in perplexing myself on these things ; but at length , seeing the ship almost dry , i went upon the sand as near as i could , and then swam on board .
this day also it continued raining , though with no wind at all .
_ from the 1st of october to the 24th _ . - all these days entirely spent in many several voyages to get all i could out of the ship , which i brought on shore every tide of flood upon rafts .
much rain also in the days , though with some intervals of fair weather ; but it seems this was the rainy season .
_ oct. _ 20 . - i overset my raft , and all the goods i had got upon it ; but , being in shoal water , and the things being chiefly heavy , i recovered many of them when the tide was out .
_ oct. _ 25 . - it rained all night and all day , with some gusts of wind ; during which time the ship broke in pieces , the wind blowing a little harder than before , and was no more to be seen , except the wreck of her , and that only at low water .
i spent this day in covering and securing the goods which i had saved , that the rain might not spoil them .
_ oct. _ 26 . - i walked about the shore almost all day , to find out a place to fix my habitation , greatly concerned to secure myself from any attack in the night , either from wild beasts or men .
towards night , i fixed upon a proper place , under a rock , and marked out a semicircle for my encampment ; which i resolved to strengthen with a work , wall , or fortification , made of double piles , lined within with cables , and without with turf .
from the 26th to the 30th i worked very hard in carrying all my goods to my new habitation , though some part of the time it rained exceedingly hard .
the 31st , in the morning , i went out into the island with my gun , to seek for some food , and discover the country ; when i killed a she-goat , and her kid followed me home , which i afterwards killed also , because it would not feed .
_ november _ 1 . - i set up my tent under a rock , and lay there for the first night ; making it as large as i could , with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon .
_ nov. _ 2 . - i set up all my chests and boards , and the pieces of timber which made my rafts , and with them formed a fence round me , a little within the place i had marked out for my fortification .
_ nov. _ 3 . - i went out with my gun , and killed two fowls like ducks , which were very good food .
in the afternoon went to work to make me a table .
_ nov _ . 4 . - this morning i began to order my times of work , of going out with my gun , time of sleep , and time of diversion - viz. every morning i walked out with my gun for two or three hours , if it did not rain ; then employed myself to work till about eleven o 'clock ; then eat what i had to live on ; and from twelve to two i lay down to sleep , the weather being excessively hot ; and then , in the evening , to work again .
the working part of this day and of the next were wholly employed in making my table , for i was yet but a very sorry workman , though time and necessity made me a complete natural mechanic soon after , as i believe they would do any one else .
_ nov. _ 5 . - this day went abroad with my gun and my dog , and killed a wild cat ; her skin pretty soft , but her flesh good for nothing ; every creature that i killed i took of the skins and preserved them .
coming back by the sea-shore , i saw many sorts of sea-fowls , which i did not understand ; but was surprised , and almost frightened , with two or three seals , which , while i was gazing at , not well knowing what they were , got into the sea , and escaped me for that time .
_ nov. _ 6 . - after my morning walk i went to work with my table again , and finished it , though not to my liking ; nor was it long before i learned to mend it .
_ nov. _ 7 . - now it began to be settled fair weather .
the 7th , 8th , 9th , 10th , and part of the 12th ( for the 11th was sunday ) i took wholly up to make me a chair , and with much ado brought it to a tolerable shape , but never to please me ; and even in the making i pulled it in pieces several times .
_ note _ . - i soon neglected my keeping sundays ; for , omitting my mark for them on my post , i forgot which was which .
_ nov. _ 13 . - this day it rained , which refreshed me exceedingly , and cooled the earth ; but it was accompanied with terrible thunder and lightning , which frightened me dreadfully , for fear of my powder .
as soon as it was over , i resolved to separate my stock of powder into as many little parcels as possible , that it might not be in danger .
_ nov. _ 14 , 15 , 16 . - these three days i spent in making little square chests , or boxes , which might hold about a pound , or two pounds at most , of powder ; and so , putting the powder in , i stowed it in places as secure and remote from one another as possible .
on one of these three days i killed a large bird that was good to eat , but i knew not what to call it .
_ nov. _ 17 . - this day i began to dig behind my tent into the rock , to make room for my further conveniency .
_ note _ . - three things i wanted exceedingly for this work - viz. a pickaxe , a shovel , and a wheelbarrow or basket ; so i desisted from my work , and began to consider how to supply that want , and make me some tools .
as for the pickaxe , i made use of the iron crows , which were proper enough , though heavy ; but the next thing was a shovel or spade ; this was so absolutely necessary , that , indeed , i could do nothing effectually without it ; but what kind of one to make i knew not .
_ nov. _ 18 . - the next day , in searching the woods , i found a tree of that wood , or like it , which in the brazils they call the iron-tree , for its exceeding hardness .
of this , with great labour , and almost spoiling my axe , i cut a piece , and brought it home , too , with difficulty enough , for it was exceeding heavy .
the excessive hardness of the wood , and my having no other way , made me a long while upon this machine , for i worked it effectually by little and little into the form of a shovel or spade ; the handle exactly shaped like ours in england , only that the board part having no iron shod upon it at bottom , it would not last me so long ; however , it served well enough for the uses which i had occasion to put it to ; but never was a shovel , i believe , made after that fashion , or so long in making .
i was still deficient , for i wanted a basket or a wheelbarrow .
a basket i could not make by any means , having no such things as twigs that would bend to make wicker-ware - at least , none yet found out ; and as to a wheelbarrow , i fancied i could make all but the wheel ; but that i had no notion of ; neither did i know how to go about it ; besides , i had no possible way to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle or axis of the wheel to run in ; so i gave it over , and so , for carrying away the earth which i dug out of the cave , i made me a thing like a hod which the labourers carry mortar in when they serve the bricklayers .
this was not so difficult to me as the making the shovel : and yet this and the shovel , and the attempt which i made in vain to make a wheelbarrow , took me up no less than four days - i mean always excepting my morning walk with my gun , which i seldom failed , and very seldom failed also bringing home something fit to eat .
_ nov. _ 23 . - my other work having now stood still , because of my making these tools , when they were finished i went on , and working every day , as my strength and time allowed , i spent eighteen days entirely in widening and deepening my cave , that it might hold my goods commodiously .
_ note _ . - during all this time i worked to make this room or cave spacious enough to accommodate me as a warehouse or magazine , a kitchen , a dining-room , and a cellar .
as for my lodging , i kept to the tent ; except that sometimes , in the wet season of the year , it rained so hard that i could not keep myself dry , which caused me afterwards to cover all my place within my pale with long poles , in the form of rafters , leaning against the rock , and load them with flags and large leaves of trees , like a thatch .
_ december _ 10 . - i began now to think my cave or vault finished , when on a sudden ( it seems i had made it too large ) a great quantity of earth fell down from the top on one side ; so much that , in short , it frighted me , and not without reason , too , for if i had been under it , i had never wanted a gravedigger .
i had now a great deal of work to do over again , for i had the loose earth to carry out ; and , which was of more importance , i had the ceiling to prop up , so that i might be sure no more would come down .
_ dec _ . 11 . - this day i went to work with it accordingly , and got two shores or posts pitched upright to the top , with two pieces of boards across over each post ; this i finished the next day ; and setting more posts up with boards , in about a week more i had the roof secured , and the posts , standing in rows , served me for partitions to part off the house .
_ dec. _ 17 . - from this day to the 20th i placed shelves , and knocked up nails on the posts , to hang everything up that could be hung up ; and now i began to be in some order within doors .
_ dec. _ 20 . - now i carried everything into the cave , and began to furnish my house , and set up some pieces of boards like a dresser , to order my victuals upon ; but boards began to be very scarce with me ; also , i made me another table .
_ dec. _ 24 . - much rain all night and all day . no stirring out .
_ dec. _ 25 . - rain all day .
_ dec. _ 26 . - no rain , and the earth much cooler than before , and pleasanter .
_ dec. _ 27 . - killed a young goat , and lamed another , so that i caught it and led it home in a string ; when i had it at home , i bound and splintered up its leg , which was broke .
_ n.b. _ - i took such care of it that it lived , and the leg grew well and as strong as ever ; but , by my nursing it so long , it grew tame , and fed upon the little green at my door , and would not go away .
this was the first time that i entertained a thought of breeding up some tame creatures , that i might have food when my powder and shot was all spent .
_ dec. _ 28,29,30,31 . - great heats , and no breeze , so that there was no stirring abroad , except in the evening , for food ; this time i spent in putting all my things in order within doors .
_ january _ 1 . - very hot still : but i went abroad early and late with my gun , and lay still in the middle of the day .
this evening , going farther into the valleys which lay towards the centre of the island , i found there were plenty of goats , though exceedingly shy , and hard to come at ; however , i resolved to try if i could not bring my dog to hunt them down . _ jan. _ 2 . - accordingly , the next day i went out with my dog , and set him upon the goats , but i was mistaken , for they all faced about upon the dog , and he knew his danger too well , for he would not come near them .
_ jan. _ 3 . - i began my fence or wall ; which , being still jealous of my being attacked by somebody , i resolved to make very thick and strong .
_ n.b. _ - this wall being described before , i purposely omit what was said in the journal ; it is sufficient to observe , that i was no less time than from the 2nd of january to the 14th of april working , finishing , and perfecting this wall , though it was no more than about twenty-four yards in length , being a half-circle from one place in the rock to another place , about eight yards from it , the door of the cave being in the centre behind it .
all this time i worked very hard , the rains hindering me many days , nay , sometimes weeks together ; but i thought i should never be perfectly secure till this wall was finished ; and it is scarce credible what inexpressible labour everything was done with , especially the bringing piles out of the woods and driving them into the ground ; for i made them much bigger than i needed to have done .
when this wall was finished , and the outside double fenced , with a turf wall raised up close to it , i perceived myself that if any people were to come on shore there , they would not perceive anything like a habitation ; and it was very well i did so , as may be observed hereafter , upon a very remarkable occasion .
during this time i made my rounds in the woods for game every day when the rain permitted me , and made frequent discoveries in these walks of something or other to my advantage ; particularly , i found a kind of wild pigeons , which build , not as wood-pigeons in a tree , but rather as house-pigeons , in the holes of the rocks ; and taking some young ones , i endeavoured to breed them up tame , and did so ; but when they grew older they flew away , which perhaps was at first for want of feeding them , for i had nothing to give them ; however , i frequently found their nests , and got their young ones , which were very good meat .
and now , in the managing my household affairs , i found myself wanting in many things , which i thought at first it was impossible for me to make ; as , indeed , with some of them it was : for instance , i could never make a cask to be hooped .
i had a small runlet or two , as i observed before ; but i could never arrive at the capacity of making one by them , though i spent many weeks about it ; i could neither put in the heads , or join the staves so true to one another as to make them hold water ; so i gave that also over .
in the next place , i was at a great loss for candles ; so that as soon as ever it was dark , which was generally by seven o 'clock , i was obliged to go to bed .
i remembered the lump of beeswax with which i made candles in my african adventure ; but i had none of that now ; the only remedy i had was , that when i had killed a goat i saved the tallow , and with a little dish made of clay , which i baked in the sun , to which i added a wick of some oakum , i made me a lamp ; and this gave me light , though not a clear , steady light , like a candle .
in the middle of all my labours it happened that , rummaging my things , i found a little bag which , as i hinted before , had been filled with corn for the feeding of poultry - not for this voyage , but before , as i suppose , when the ship came from lisbon . the little remainder of corn that had been in the bag was all devoured by the rats , and i saw nothing in the bag but husks and dust ; and being willing to have the bag for some other use ( i think it was to put powder in , when i divided it for fear of the lightning , or some such use ) , i shook the husks of corn out of it on one side of my fortification , under the rock .
it was a little before the great rains just now mentioned that i threw this stuff away , taking no notice , and not so much as remembering that i had thrown anything there , when , about a month after , or thereabouts , i saw some few stalks of something green shooting out of the ground , which i fancied might be some plant i had not seen ; but i was surprised , and perfectly astonished , when , after a little longer time , i saw about ten or twelve ears come out , which were perfect green barley , of the same kind as our european - nay , as our english barley .
it is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion of my thoughts on this occasion .
i had hitherto acted upon no religious foundation at all ; indeed , i had very few notions of religion in my head , nor had entertained any sense of anything that had befallen me otherwise than as chance , or , as we lightly say , what pleases god , without so much as inquiring into the end of providence in these things , or his order in governing events for the world .
but after i saw barley grow there , in a climate which i knew was not proper for corn , and especially that i knew not how it came there , it startled me strangely , and i began to suggest that god had miraculously caused his grain to grow without any help of seed sown , and that it was so directed purely for my sustenance on that wild , miserable place .
this touched my heart a little , and brought tears out of my eyes , and i began to bless myself that such a prodigy of nature should happen upon my account ; and this was the more strange to me , because i saw near it still , all along by the side of the rock , some other straggling stalks , which proved to be stalks of rice , and which i knew , because i had seen it grow in africa when i was ashore there .
i not only thought these the pure productions of providence for my support , but not doubting that there was more in the place , i went all over that part of the island , where i had been before , peering in every corner , and under every rock , to see for more of it , but i could not find any .
at last it occurred to my thoughts that i shook a bag of chickens ' meat out in that place ; and then the wonder began to cease ; and i must confess my religious thankfulness to god 's providence began to abate , too , upon the discovering that all this was nothing but what was common ; though i ought to have been as thankful for so strange and unforeseen a providence as if it had been miraculous ; for it was really the work of providence to me , that should order or appoint that ten or twelve grains of corn should remain unspoiled , when the rats had destroyed all the rest , as if it had been dropped from heaven ; as also , that i should throw it out in that particular place , where , it being in the shade of a high rock , it sprang up immediately ; whereas , if i had thrown it anywhere else at that time , it had been burnt up and destroyed .
i carefully saved the ears of this corn , you may be sure , in their season , which was about the end of june ; and , laying up every corn , i resolved to sow them all again , hoping in time to have some quantity sufficient to supply me with bread .
but it was not till the fourth year that i could allow myself the least grain of this corn to eat , and even then but sparingly , as i shall say afterwards , in its order ; for i lost all that i sowed the first season by not observing the proper time ; for i sowed it just before the dry season , so that it never came up at all , at least not as it would have done ; of which in its place .
besides this barley , there were , as above , twenty or thirty stalks of rice , which i preserved with the same care and for the same use , or to the same purpose - to make me bread , or rather food ; for i found ways to cook it without baking , though i did that also after some time .
but to return to my journal .
i worked excessive hard these three or four months to get my wall done ; and the 14th of april i closed it up , contriving to go into it , not by a door but over the wall , by a ladder , that there might be no sign on the outside of my habitation .
_ april _ 16 . - i finished the ladder ; so i went up the ladder to the top , and then pulled it up after me , and let it down in the inside .
this was a complete enclosure to me ; for within i had room enough , and nothing could come at me from without , unless it could first mount my wall .
the very next day after this wall was finished i had almost had all my labour overthrown at once , and myself killed .
the case was thus : as i was busy in the inside , behind my tent , just at the entrance into my cave , i was terribly frighted with a most dreadful , surprising thing indeed ; for all on a sudden i found the earth come crumbling down from the roof of my cave , and from the edge of the hill over my head , and two of the posts i had set up in the cave cracked in a frightful manner .
i was heartily scared ; but thought nothing of what was really the cause , only thinking that the top of my cave was fallen in , as some of it had done before : and for fear i should be buried in it i ran forward to my ladder , and not thinking myself safe there neither , i got over my wall for fear of the pieces of the hill , which i expected might roll down upon me .
i had no sooner stepped do ground , than i plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake , for the ground i stood on shook three times at about eight minutes ' distance , with three such shocks as would have overturned the strongest building that could be supposed to have stood on the earth ; and a great piece of the top of a rock which stood about half a mile from me next the sea fell down with such a terrible noise as i never heard in all my life .
i perceived also the very sea was put into violent motion by it ; and i believe the shocks were stronger under the water than on the island .
i was so much amazed with the thing itself , having never felt the like , nor discoursed with any one that had , that i was like one dead or stupefied ; and the motion of the earth made my stomach sick , like one that was tossed at sea ; but the noise of the falling of the rock awakened me , as it were , and rousing me from the stupefied condition i was in , filled me with horror ; and i thought of nothing then but the hill falling upon my tent and all my household goods , and burying all at once ; and this sunk my very soul within me a second time .
after the third shock was over , and i felt no more for some time , i began to take courage ; and yet i had not heart enough to go over my wall again , for fear of being buried alive , but sat still upon the ground greatly cast down and disconsolate , not knowing what to do .
all this while i had not the least serious religious thought ; nothing but the common " lord have mercy upon me ! " and when it was over that went away too .
while i sat thus , i found the air overcast and grow cloudy , as if it would rain . soon after that the wind arose by little and little , so that in less than half-an-hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane ; the sea was all on a sudden covered over with foam and froth ; the shore was covered with the breach of the water , the trees were torn up by the roots , and a terrible storm it was .
this held about three hours , and then began to abate ; and in two hours more it was quite calm , and began to rain very hard .
all this while i sat upon the ground very much terrified and dejected ; when on a sudden it came into my thoughts , that these winds and rain being the consequences of the earthquake , the earthquake itself was spent and over , and i might venture into my cave again . with this thought my spirits began to revive ; and the rain also helping to persuade me , i went in and sat down in my tent .
but the rain was so violent that my tent was ready to be beaten down with it ; and i was forced to go into my cave , though very much afraid and uneasy , for fear it should fall on my head .
this violent rain forced me to a new work - viz. to cut a hole through my new fortification , like a sink , to let the water go out , which would else have flooded my cave . after i had been in my cave for some time , and found still no more shocks of the earthquake follow , i began to be more composed .
and now , to support my spirits , which indeed wanted it very much , i went to my little store , and took a small sup of rum ; which , however , i did then and always very sparingly , knowing i could have no more when that was gone .
it continued raining all that night and great part of the next day , so that i could not stir abroad ; but my mind being more composed , i began to think of what i had best do ; concluding that if the island was subject to these earthquakes , there would be no living for me in a cave , but i must consider of building a little hut in an open place which i might surround with a wall , as i had done here , and so make myself secure from wild beasts or men ; for i concluded , if i stayed where i was , i should certainly one time or other be buried alive .
with these thoughts , i resolved to remove my tent from the place where it stood , which was just under the hanging precipice of the hill ; and which , if it should be shaken again , would certainly fall upon my tent ; and i spent the two next days , being the 19th and 20th of april , in contriving where and how to remove my habitation .
the fear of being swallowed up alive made me that i never slept in quiet ; and yet the apprehension of lying abroad without any fence was almost equal to it ; but still , when i looked about , and saw how everything was put in order , how pleasantly concealed i was , and how safe from danger , it made me very loath to remove .
in the meantime , it occurred to me that it would require a vast deal of time for me to do this , and that i must be contented to venture where i was , till i had formed a camp for myself , and had secured it so as to remove to it . so with this resolution i composed myself for a time , and resolved that i would go to work with all speed to build me a wall with piles and cables , & c . , in a circle , as before , and set my tent up in it when it was finished ; but that i would venture to stay where i was till it was finished , and fit to remove .
this was the 21st .
_ april _ 22 . - the next morning i begin to consider of means to put this resolve into execution ; but i was at a great loss about my tools .
i had three large axes , and abundance of hatchets ( for we carried the hatchets for traffic with the indians ) ; but with much chopping and cutting knotty hard wood , they were all full of notches , and dull ; and though i had a grindstone , i could not turn it and grind my tools too .
this cost me as much thought as a statesman would have bestowed upon a grand point of politics , or a judge upon the life and death of a man .
at length i contrived a wheel with a string , to turn it with my foot , that i might have both my hands at liberty .
_ note _ . - i had never seen any such thing in england , or at least , not to take notice how it was done , though since i have observed , it is very common there ; besides that , my grindstone was very large and heavy . this machine cost me a full week 's work to bring it to perfection .
_ april _ 28 , 29 . - these two whole days i took up in grinding my tools , my machine for turning my grindstone performing very well .
_ april _ 30 . - having perceived my bread had been low a great while , now i took a survey of it , and reduced myself to one biscuit cake a day , which made my heart very heavy .
_ may _ 1 . - in the morning , looking towards the sea side , the tide being low , i saw something lie on the shore bigger than ordinary , and it looked like a cask ; when i came to it , i found a small barrel , and two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship , which were driven on shore by the late hurricane ; and looking towards the wreck itself , i thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to do .
i examined the barrel which was driven on shore , and soon found it was a barrel of gunpowder ; but it had taken water , and the powder was caked as hard as a stone ; however , i rolled it farther on shore for the present , and went on upon the sands , as near as i could to the wreck of the ship , to look for more .
when i came down to the ship i found it strangely removed .
the forecastle , which lay before buried in sand , was heaved up at least six feet , and the stern , which was broke in pieces and parted from the rest by the force of the sea , soon after i had left rummaging her , was tossed as it were up , and cast on one side ; and the sand was thrown so high on that side next her stern , that whereas there was a great place of water before , so that i could not come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without swimming i could now walk quite up to her when the tide was out .
i was surprised with this at first , but soon concluded it must be done by the earthquake ; and as by this violence the ship was more broke open than formerly , so many things came daily on shore , which the sea had loosened , and which the winds and water rolled by degrees to the land .
this wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of removing my habitation , and i busied myself mightily , that day especially , in searching whether i could make any way into the ship ; but i found nothing was to be expected of that kind , for all the inside of the ship was choked up with sand .
however , as i had learned not to despair of anything , i resolved to pull everything to pieces that i could of the ship , concluding that everything i could get from her would be of some use or other to me .
_ may _ 3 . - i began with my saw , and cut a piece of a beam through , which i thought held some of the upper part or quarter-deck together , and when i had cut it through , i cleared away the sand as well as i could from the side which lay highest ; but the tide coming in , i was obliged to give over for that time .
_ may _ 4 . - i went a-fishing , but caught not one fish that i durst eat of , till i was weary of my sport ; when , just going to leave off , i caught a young dolphin .
i had made me a long line of some rope-yarn , but i had no hooks ; yet i frequently caught fish enough , as much as i cared to eat ; all which i dried in the sun , and ate them dry .
_ may _ 5 . - worked on the wreck ; cut another beam asunder , and brought three great fir planks off from the decks , which i tied together , and made to float on shore when the tide of flood came on .
_ may _ 6 . - worked on the wreck ; got several iron bolts out of her and other pieces of ironwork .
worked very hard , and came home very much tired , and had thoughts of giving it over .
_ may _ 7 . - went to the wreck again , not with an intent to work , but found the weight of the wreck had broke itself down , the beams being cut ; that several pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose , and the inside of the hold lay so open that i could see into it ; but it was almost full of water and sand .
_ may _ 8 . - went to the wreck , and carried an iron crow to wrench up the deck , which lay now quite clear of the water or sand . i wrenched open two planks , and brought them on shore also with the tide .
i left the iron crow in the wreck for next day .
_ may _ 9 . - went to the wreck , and with the crow made way into the body of the wreck , and felt several casks , and loosened them with the crow , but could not break them up .
i felt also a roll of english lead , and could stir it , but it was too heavy to remove .
_ may _ 10-14 . - went every day to the wreck ; and got a great many pieces of timber , and boards , or plank , and two or three hundredweight of iron .
_ may _ 15 . - i carried two hatchets , to try if i could not cut a piece off the roll of lead by placing the edge of one hatchet and driving it with the other ; but as it lay about a foot and a half in the water , i could not make any blow to drive the hatchet .
_ may _ 16 . - it had blown hard in the night , and the wreck appeared more broken by the force of the water ; but i stayed so long in the woods , to get pigeons for food , that the tide prevented my going to the wreck that day .
_ may _ 17 . - i saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore , at a great distance , near two miles off me , but resolved to see what they were , and found it was a piece of the head , but too heavy for me to bring away .
_ may _ 24 . - every day , to this day , i worked on the wreck ; and with hard labour i loosened some things so much with the crow , that the first flowing tide several casks floated out , and two of the seamen 's chests ; but the wind blowing from the shore , nothing came to land that day but pieces of timber , and a hogshead , which had some brazil pork in it ; but the salt water and the sand had spoiled it .
i continued this work every day to the 15th of june , except the time necessary to get food , which i always appointed , during this part of my employment , to be when the tide was up , that i might be ready when it was ebbed out ; and by this time i had got timber and plank and ironwork enough to have built a good boat , if i had known how ; and also i got , at several times and in several pieces , near one hundredweight of the sheet lead .
_ june _ 16 . - going down to the seaside , i found a large tortoise or turtle .
this was the first i had seen , which , it seems , was only my misfortune , not any defect of the place , or scarcity ; for had i happened to be on the other side of the island , i might have had hundreds of them every day , as i found afterwards ; but perhaps had paid dear enough for them .
_ june _ 17 . - i spent in cooking the turtle . i found in her three-score eggs ; and her flesh was to me , at that time , the most savoury and pleasant that ever i tasted in my life , having had no flesh , but of goats and fowls , since i landed in this horrid place .
_ june _ 18 . - rained all day , and i stayed within .
i thought at this time the rain felt cold , and i was something chilly ; which i knew was not usual in that latitude .
_ june _ 19 . - very ill , and shivering , as if the weather had been cold .
_ june _ 20 . - no rest all night ; violent pains in my head , and feverish .
_ june _ 21 . - very ill ; frighted almost to death with the apprehensions of my sad condition - to be sick , and no help .
prayed to god , for the first time since the storm off hull , but scarce knew what i said , or why , my thoughts being all confused .
_ june _ 22 . - a little better ; but under dreadful apprehensions of sickness .
_ june _ 23 . - very bad again ; cold and shivering , and then a violent headache .
_ june _ 24 . - much better .
_ june _ 25 . - an ague very violent ; the fit held me seven hours ; cold fit and hot , with faint sweats after it .
_ june _ 26 . - better ; and having no victuals to eat , took my gun , but found myself very weak .
however , i killed a she-goat , and with much difficulty got it home , and broiled some of it , and ate , i would fain have stewed it , and made some broth , but had no pot .
_ june _ 27 . - the ague again so violent that i lay a-bed all day , and neither ate nor drank .
i was ready to perish for thirst ; but so weak , i had not strength to stand up , or to get myself any water to drink .
prayed to god again , but was light-headed ; and when i was not , i was so ignorant that i knew not what to say ; only i lay and cried , " lord , look upon me !
lord , pity me !
lord , have mercy upon me ! "
i suppose i did nothing else for two or three hours ; till , the fit wearing off , i fell asleep , and did not wake till far in the night .
when i awoke , i found myself much refreshed , but weak , and exceeding thirsty .
however , as i had no water in my habitation , i was forced to lie till morning , and went to sleep again .
in this second sleep i had this terrible dream : i thought that i was sitting on the ground , on the outside of my wall , where i sat when the storm blew after the earthquake , and that i saw a man descend from a great black cloud , in a bright flame of fire , and light upon the ground .
he was all over as bright as a flame , so that i could but just bear to look towards him ; his countenance was most inexpressibly dreadful , impossible for words to describe .
when he stepped upon the ground with his feet , i thought the earth trembled , just as it had done before in the earthquake , and all the air looked , to my apprehension , as if it had been filled with flashes of fire .
he was no sooner landed upon the earth , but he moved forward towards me , with a long spear or weapon in his hand , to kill me ; and when he came to a rising ground , at some distance , he spoke to me - or i heard a voice so terrible that it is impossible to express the terror of it . all that i can say i understood was this : " seeing all these things have not brought thee to repentance , now thou shalt die ; " at which words , i thought he lifted up the spear that was in his hand to kill me .
no one that shall ever read this account will expect that i should be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this terrible vision . i mean , that even while it was a dream , i even dreamed of those horrors . nor is it any more possible to describe the impression that remained upon my mind when i awaked , and found it was but a dream .
i had , alas ! no divine knowledge . what i had received by the good instruction of my father was then worn out by an uninterrupted series , for eight years , of seafaring wickedness , and a constant conversation with none but such as were , like myself , wicked and profane to the last degree .
i do not remember that i had , in all that time , one thought that so much as tended either to looking upwards towards god , or inwards towards a reflection upon my own ways ; but a certain stupidity of soul , without desire of good , or conscience of evil , had entirely overwhelmed me ; and i was all that the most hardened , unthinking , wicked creature among our common sailors can be supposed to be ; not having the least sense , either of the fear of god in danger , or of thankfulness to god in deliverance .
in the relating what is already past of my story , this will be the more easily believed when i shall add , that through all the variety of miseries that had to this day befallen me , i never had so much as one thought of it being the hand of god , or that it was a just punishment for my sin - my rebellious behaviour against my father - or my present sins , which were great - or so much as a punishment for the general course of my wicked life .
when i was on the desperate expedition on the desert shores of africa , i never had so much as one thought of what would become of me , or one wish to god to direct me whither i should go , or to keep me from the danger which apparently surrounded me , as well from voracious creatures as cruel savages .
but i was merely thoughtless of a god or a providence , acted like a mere brute , from the principles of nature , and by the dictates of common sense only , and , indeed , hardly that .
when i was delivered and taken up at sea by the portugal captain , well used , and dealt justly and honourably with , as well as charitably , i had not the least thankfulness in my thoughts .
when , again , i was shipwrecked , ruined , and in danger of drowning on this island , i was as far from remorse , or looking on it as a judgment . i only said to myself often , that i was an unfortunate dog , and born to be always miserable .
it is true , when i got on shore first here , and found all my ship 's crew drowned and myself spared , i was surprised with a kind of ecstasy , and some transports of soul , which , had the grace of god assisted , might have come up to true thankfulness ; but it ended where it began , in a mere common flight of joy , or , as i may say , being glad i was alive , without the least reflection upon the distinguished goodness of the hand which had preserved me , and had singled me out to be preserved when all the rest were destroyed , or an inquiry why providence had been thus merciful unto me .
even just the same common sort of joy which seamen generally have , after they are got safe ashore from a shipwreck , which they drown all in the next bowl of punch , and forget almost as soon as it is over ; and all the rest of my life was like it .
even when i was afterwards , on due consideration , made sensible of my condition , how i was cast on this dreadful place , out of the reach of human kind , out of all hope of relief , or prospect of redemption , as soon as i saw but a prospect of living and that i should not starve and perish for hunger , all the sense of my affliction wore off ; and i began to be very easy , applied myself to the works proper for my preservation and supply , and was far enough from being afflicted at my condition , as a judgment from heaven , or as the hand of god against me : these were thoughts which very seldom entered my head .
the growing up of the corn , as is hinted in my journal , had at first some little influence upon me , and began to affect me with seriousness , as long as i thought it had something miraculous in it ; but as soon as ever that part of the thought was removed , all the impression that was raised from it wore off also , as i have noted already .
even the earthquake , though nothing could be more terrible in its nature , or more immediately directing to the invisible power which alone directs such things , yet no sooner was the first fright over , but the impression it had made went off also . i had no more sense of god or his judgments - much less of the present affliction of my circumstances being from his hand - than if i had been in the most prosperous condition of life .
but now , when i began to be sick , and a leisurely view of the miseries of death came to place itself before me ; when my spirits began to sink under the burden of a strong distemper , and nature was exhausted with the violence of the fever ; conscience , that had slept so long , began to awake , and i began to reproach myself with my past life , in which i had so evidently , by uncommon wickedness , provoked the justice of god to lay me under uncommon strokes , and to deal with me in so vindictive a manner .
these reflections oppressed me for the second or third day of my distemper ; and in the violence , as well of the fever as of the dreadful reproaches of my conscience , extorted some words from me like praying to god , though i cannot say they were either a prayer attended with desires or with hopes : it was rather the voice of mere fright and distress .
my thoughts were confused , the convictions great upon my mind , and the horror of dying in such a miserable condition raised vapours into my head with the mere apprehensions ; and in these hurries of my soul i knew not what my tongue might express .
but it was rather exclamation , such as , " lord , what a miserable creature am i !
if i should be sick , i shall certainly die for want of help ; and what will become of me ! " then the tears burst out of my eyes , and i could say no more for a good while .
in this interval the good advice of my father came to my mind , and presently his prediction , which i mentioned at the beginning of this story - viz. that if i did take this foolish step , god would not bless me , and i would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his counsel when there might be none to assist in my recovery . " now , " said i , aloud , " my dear father 's words are come to pass ; god 's justice has overtaken me , and i have none to help or hear me .
i rejected the voice of providence , which had mercifully put me in a posture or station of life wherein i might have been happy and easy ; but i would neither see it myself nor learn to know the blessing of it from my parents .
i left them to mourn over my folly , and now i am left to mourn under the consequences of it .
i abused their help and assistance , who would have lifted me in the world , and would have made everything easy to me ; and now i have difficulties to struggle with , too great for even nature itself to support , and no assistance , no help , no comfort , no advice . " then i cried out , " lord , be my help , for i am in great distress . "
this was the first prayer , if i may call it so , that i had made for many years .
but to return to my journal .
_ june _ 28 . - having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep i had had , and the fit being entirely off , i got up ; and though the fright and terror of my dream was very great , yet i considered that the fit of the ague would return again the next day , and now was my time to get something to refresh and support myself when i should be ill ; and the first thing i did , i filled a large square case-bottle with water , and set it upon my table , in reach of my bed ; and to take off the chill or aguish disposition of the water , i put about a quarter of a pint of rum into it , and mixed them together .
then i got me a piece of the goat 's flesh and broiled it on the coals , but could eat very little . i walked about , but was very weak , and withal very sad and heavy-hearted under a sense of my miserable condition , dreading , the return of my distemper the next day .
at night i made my supper of three of the turtle 's eggs , which i roasted in the ashes , and ate , as we call it , in the shell , and this was the first bit of meat i had ever asked god 's blessing to , that i could remember , in my whole life .
after i had eaten i tried to walk , but found myself so weak that i could hardly carry a gun , for i never went out without that ; so i went but a little way , and sat down upon the ground , looking out upon the sea , which was just before me , and very calm and smooth . as i sat here some such thoughts as these occurred to me : what is this earth and sea , of which i have seen so much ?
whence is it produced ? and what am i , and all the other creatures wild and tame , human and brutal ?
whence are we ? sure we are all made by some secret power , who formed the earth and sea , the air and sky .
and who is that ? then it followed most naturally , it is god that has made all .
well , but then it came on strangely , if god has made all these things , he guides and governs them all , and all things that concern them ; for the power that could make all things must certainly have power to guide and direct them .
if so , nothing can happen in the great circuit of his works , either without his knowledge or appointment .
and if nothing happens without his knowledge , he knows that i am here , and am in this dreadful condition ; and if nothing happens without his appointment , he has appointed all this to befall me .
nothing occurred to my thought to contradict any of these conclusions , and therefore it rested upon me with the greater force , that it must needs be that god had appointed all this to befall me ; that i was brought into this miserable circumstance by his direction , he having the sole power , not of me only , but of everything that happened in the world . immediately it followed : why has god done this to me ?
what have i done to be thus used ?
my conscience presently checked me in that inquiry , as if i had blasphemed , and methought it spoke to me like a voice : " wretch ! dost _ thou _ ask what thou hast done ?
look back upon a dreadful misspent life , and ask thyself what thou hast _ not _ done ?
ask , why is it that thou wert not long ago destroyed ? why wert thou not drowned in yarmouth roads ; killed in the fight when the ship was taken by the sallee man-of-war ; devoured by the wild beasts on the coast of africa ; or drowned _ here _ , when all the crew perished but thyself ?
dost _ thou _ ask , what have i done ? "
i was struck dumb with these reflections , as one astonished , and had not a word to say - no , not to answer to myself , but rose up pensive and sad , walked back to my retreat , and went up over my wall , as if i had been going to bed ; but my thoughts were sadly disturbed , and i had no inclination to sleep ; so i sat down in my chair , and lighted my lamp , for it began to be dark .
now , as the apprehension of the return of my distemper terrified me very much , it occurred to my thought that the brazilians take no physic but their tobacco for almost all distempers , and i had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests , which was quite cured , and some also that was green , and not quite cured .
i went , directed by heaven no doubt ; for in this chest i found a cure both for soul and body .
i opened the chest , and found what i looked for , the tobacco ; and as the few books i had saved lay there too , i took out one of the bibles which i mentioned before , and which to this time i had not found leisure or inclination to look into .
i say , i took it out , and brought both that and the tobacco with me to the table .
what use to make of the tobacco i knew not , in my distemper , or whether it was good for it or no : but i tried several experiments with it , as if i was resolved it should hit one way or other .
i first took a piece of leaf , and chewed it in my mouth , which , indeed , at first almost stupefied my brain , the tobacco being green and strong , and that i had not been much used to .
then i took some and steeped it an hour or two in some rum , and resolved to take a dose of it when i lay down ; and lastly , i burnt some upon a pan of coals , and held my nose close over the smoke of it as long as i could bear it , as well for the heat as almost for suffocation .
in the interval of this operation i took up the bible and began to read ; but my head was too much disturbed with the tobacco to bear reading , at least at that time ; only , having opened the book casually , the first words that occurred to me were these , " call on me in the day of trouble , and i will deliver thee , and thou shalt glorify me . "
these words were very apt to my case , and made some impression upon my thoughts at the time of reading them , though not so much as they did afterwards ; for , as for being _ delivered _ , the word had no sound , as i may say , to me ; the thing was so remote , so impossible in my apprehension of things , that i began to say , as the children of israel did when they were promised flesh to eat , " can god spread a table in the wilderness ? " so i began to say , " can god himself deliver me from this place ? " and as it was not for many years that any hopes appeared , this prevailed very often upon my thoughts ; but , however , the words made a great impression upon me , and i mused upon them very often .
it grew now late , and the tobacco had , as i said , dozed my head so much that i inclined to sleep ; so i left my lamp burning in the cave , lest i should want anything in the night , and went to bed . but before i lay down , i did what i never had done in all my life - i kneeled down , and prayed to god to fulfil the promise to me , that if i called upon him in the day of trouble , he would deliver me .
after my broken and imperfect prayer was over , i drank the rum in which i had steeped the tobacco , which was so strong and rank of the tobacco that i could scarcely get it down ; immediately upon this i went to bed .
i found presently it flew up into my head violently ; but i fell into a sound sleep , and waked no more till , by the sun , it must necessarily be near three o 'clock in the afternoon the next day - nay , to this hour i am partly of opinion that i slept all the next day and night , and till almost three the day after ; for otherwise i know not how i should lose a day out of my reckoning in the days of the week , as it appeared some years after i had done ; for if i had lost it by crossing and recrossing the line , i should have lost more than one day ; but certainly i lost a day in my account , and never knew which way .
be that , however , one way or the other , when i awaked i found myself exceedingly refreshed , and my spirits lively and cheerful ; when i got up i was stronger than i was the day before , and my stomach better , for i was hungry ; and , in short , i had no fit the next day , but continued much altered for the better .
this was the 29th .
the 30th was my well day , of course , and i went abroad with my gun , but did not care to travel too far .
i killed a sea-fowl or two , something like a brandgoose , and brought them home , but was not very forward to eat them ; so i ate some more of the turtle 's eggs , which were very good .
this evening i renewed the medicine , which i had supposed did me good the day before - the tobacco steeped in rum ; only i did not take so much as before , nor did i chew any of the leaf , or hold my head over the smoke ; however , i was not so well the next day , which was the first of july , as i hoped i should have been ; for i had a little spice of the cold fit , but it was not much .
_ july _ 2 . - i renewed the medicine all the three ways ; and dosed myself with it as at first , and doubled the quantity which i drank .
_ july _ 3 . - i missed the fit for good and all , though i did not recover my full strength for some weeks after .
while i was thus gathering strength , my thoughts ran exceedingly upon this scripture , " i will deliver thee " ; and the impossibility of my deliverance lay much upon my mind , in bar of my ever expecting it ; but as i was discouraging myself with such thoughts , it occurred to my mind that i pored so much upon my deliverance from the main affliction , that i disregarded the deliverance i had received , and i was as it were made to ask myself such questions as these - viz . have i not been delivered , and wonderfully too , from sickness - from the most distressed condition that could be , and that was so frightful to me ? and what notice had i taken of it ?
had i done my part ?
god had delivered me , but i had not glorified him - that is to say , i had not owned and been thankful for that as a deliverance ; and how could i expect greater deliverance ?
this touched my heart very much ; and immediately i knelt down and gave god thanks aloud for my recovery from my sickness .
_ july _ 4 . - in the morning i took the bible ; and beginning at the new testament , i began seriously to read it , and imposed upon myself to read a while every morning and every night ; not tying myself to the number of chapters , but long as my thoughts should engage me .
it was not long after i set seriously to this work till i found my heart more deeply and sincerely affected with the wickedness of my past life .
the impression of my dream revived ; and the words , " all these things have not brought thee to repentance , " ran seriously through my thoughts .
i was earnestly begging of god to give me repentance , when it happened providentially , the very day , that , reading the scripture , i came to these words : " he is exalted a prince and a saviour , to give repentance and to give remission . " i threw down the book ; and with my heart as well as my hands lifted up to heaven , in a kind of ecstasy of joy , i cried out aloud , " jesus , thou son of david !
this was the first time i could say , in the true sense of the words , that i prayed in all my life ; for now i prayed with a sense of my condition , and a true scripture view of hope , founded on the encouragement of the word of god ; and from this time , i may say , i began to hope that god would hear me .
now i began to construe the words mentioned above , " call on me , and i will deliver thee , " in a different sense from what i had ever done before ; for then i had no notion of anything being called _ deliverance _ , but my being delivered from the captivity i was in ; for though i was indeed at large in the place , yet the island was certainly a prison to me , and that in the worse sense in the world .
but now i learned to take it in another sense : now i looked back upon my past life with such horror , and my sins appeared so dreadful , that my soul sought nothing of god but deliverance from the load of guilt that bore down all my comfort .
as for my solitary life , it was nothing . i did not so much as pray to be delivered from it or think of it ; it was all of no consideration in comparison to this .
and i add this part here , to hint to whoever shall read it , that whenever they come to a true sense of things , they will find deliverance from sin a much greater blessing than deliverance from affliction .
but , leaving this part , i return to my journal .
my condition began now to be , though not less miserable as to my way of living , yet much easier to my mind : and my thoughts being directed , by a constant reading the scripture and praying to god , to things of a higher nature , i had a great deal of comfort within , which till now i knew nothing of ; also , my health and strength returned , i bestirred myself to furnish myself with everything that i wanted , and make my way of living as regular as i could .
from the 4th of july to the 14th i was chiefly employed in walking about with my gun in my hand , a little and a little at a time , as a man that was gathering up his strength after a fit of sickness ; for it is hardly to be imagined how low i was , and to what weakness i was reduced .
the application which i made use of was perfectly new , and perhaps which had never cured an ague before ; neither can i recommend it to any to practise , by this experiment : and though it did carry off the fit , yet it rather contributed to weakening me ; for i had frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs for some time .
i learned from it also this , in particular , that being abroad in the rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my health that could be , especially in those rains which came attended with storms and hurricanes of wind ; for as the rain which came in the dry season was almost always accompanied with such storms , so i found that rain was much more dangerous than the rain which fell in september and october .
i had now been in this unhappy island above ten months . all possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely taken from me ; and i firmly believe that no human shape had ever set foot upon that place .
having now secured my habitation , as i thought , fully to my mind , i had a great desire to make a more perfect discovery of the island , and to see what other productions i might find , which i yet knew nothing of .
it was on the 15th of july that i began to take a more particular survey of the island itself .
i went up the creek first , where , as i hinted , i brought my rafts on shore .
i found after i came about two miles up , that the tide did not flow any higher , and that it was no more than a little brook of running water , very fresh and good ; but this being the dry season , there was hardly any water in some parts of it - at least not enough to run in any stream , so as it could be perceived .
on the banks of this brook i found many pleasant savannahs or meadows , plain , smooth , and covered with grass ; and on the rising parts of them , next to the higher grounds , where the water , as might be supposed , never overflowed , i found a great deal of tobacco , green , and growing to a great and very strong stalk .
there were divers other plants , which i had no notion of or understanding about , that might , perhaps , have virtues of their own , which i could not find out .
i searched for the cassava root , which the indians , in all that climate , make their bread of , but i could find none .
i saw large plants of aloes , but did not understand them .
i saw several sugar-canes , but wild , and , for want of cultivation , imperfect .
i contented myself with these discoveries for this time , and came back , musing with myself what course i might take to know the virtue and goodness of any of the fruits or plants which i should discover , but could bring it to no conclusion ; for , in short , i had made so little observation while i was in the brazils , that i knew little of the plants in the field ; at least , very little that might serve to any purpose now in my distress .
the next day , the sixteenth , i went up the same way again ; and after going something further than i had gone the day before , i found the brook and the savannahs cease , and the country become more woody than before .
in this part i found different fruits , and particularly i found melons upon the ground , in great abundance , and grapes upon the trees . the vines had spread , indeed , over the trees , and the clusters of grapes were just now in their prime , very ripe and rich .
this was a surprising discovery , and i was exceeding glad of them ; but i was warned by my experience to eat sparingly of them ; remembering that when i was ashore in barbary , the eating of grapes killed several of our englishmen , who were slaves there , by throwing them into fluxes and fevers .
but i found an excellent use for these grapes ; and that was , to cure or dry them in the sun , and keep them as dried grapes or raisins are kept , which i thought would be , as indeed they were , wholesome and agreeable to eat when no grapes could be had .
i spent all that evening there , and went not back to my habitation ; which , by the way , was the first night , as i might say , i had lain from home .
in the night , i took my first contrivance , and got up in a tree , where i slept well ; and the next morning proceeded upon my discovery ; travelling nearly four miles , as i might judge by the length of the valley , keeping still due north , with a ridge of hills on the south and north side of me .
at the end of this march i came to an opening where the country seemed to descend to the west ; and a little spring of fresh water , which issued out of the side of the hill by me , ran the other way , that is , due east ; and the country appeared so fresh , so green , so flourishing , everything being in a constant verdure or flourish of spring that it looked like a planted garden .
i descended a little on the side of that delicious vale , surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure , though mixed with my other afflicting thoughts , to think that this was all my own ; that i was king and lord of all this country indefensibly , and had a right of possession ; and if i could convey it , i might have it in inheritance as completely as any lord of a manor in england .
i saw here abundance of cocoa trees , orange , and lemon , and citron trees ; but all wild , and very few bearing any fruit , at least not then .
however , the green limes that i gathered were not only pleasant to eat , but very wholesome ; and i mixed their juice afterwards with water , which made it very wholesome , and very cool and refreshing .
i found now i had business enough to gather and carry home ; and i resolved to lay up a store as well of grapes as limes and lemons , to furnish myself for the wet season , which i knew was approaching .
in order to do this , i gathered a great heap of grapes in one place , a lesser heap in another place , and a great parcel of limes and lemons in another place ; and taking a few of each with me , i travelled homewards ; resolving to come again , and bring a bag or sack , or what i could make , to carry the rest home .
accordingly , having spent three days in this journey , i came home ( so i must now call my tent and my cave ) ; but before i got thither the grapes were spoiled ; the richness of the fruit and the weight of the juice having broken them and bruised them , they were good for little or nothing ; as to the limes , they were good , but i could bring but a few .
the next day , being the nineteenth , i went back , having made me two small bags to bring home my harvest ; but i was surprised , when coming to my heap of grapes , which were so rich and fine when i gathered them , to find them all spread about , trod to pieces , and dragged about , some here , some there , and abundance eaten and devoured .
by this i concluded there were some wild creatures thereabouts , which had done this ; but what they were i knew not .
however , as i found there was no laying them up on heaps , and no carrying them away in a sack , but that one way they would be destroyed , and the other way they would be crushed with their own weight , i took another course ; for i gathered a large quantity of the grapes , and hung upon the out-branches of the trees , that they might cure and dry in the sun ; and as for the limes and lemons , i carried as many back as i could well stand under .
when i came home from this journey , i contemplated with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley , and the pleasantness of the situation ; the security from storms on that side of the water , and the wood : and concluded that i had pitched upon a place to fix my abode which was by far the worst part of the country .
upon the whole , i began to consider of removing my habitation , and looking out for a place equally safe as where now i was situate , if possible , in that pleasant , fruitful part of the island .
this thought ran long in my head , and i was exceeding fond of it for some time , the pleasantness of the place tempting me ; but when i came to a nearer view of it , i considered that i was now by the seaside , where it was at least possible that something might happen to my advantage , and , by the same ill fate that brought me hither might bring some other unhappy wretches to the same place ; and though it was scarce probable that any such thing should ever happen , yet to enclose myself among the hills and woods in the centre of the island was to anticipate my bondage , and to render such an affair not only improbable , but impossible ; and that therefore i ought not by any means to remove .
however , i was so enamoured of this place , that i spent much of my time there for the whole of the remaining part of the month of july ; and though upon second thoughts , i resolved not to remove , yet i built me a little kind of a bower , and surrounded it at a distance with a strong fence , being a double hedge , as high as i could reach , well staked and filled between with brushwood ; and here i lay very secure , sometimes two or three nights together ; always going over it with a ladder ; so that i fancied now i had my country house and my sea-coast house ; and this work took me up to the beginning of august .
i had but newly finished my fence , and began to enjoy my labour , when the rains came on , and made me stick close to my first habitation ; for though i had made me a tent like the other , with a piece of a sail , and spread it very well , yet i had not the shelter of a hill to keep me from storms , nor a cave behind me to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary .
about the beginning of august , as i said , i had finished my bower , and began to enjoy myself .
the 3rd of august , i found the grapes i had hung up perfectly dried , and , indeed , were excellent good raisins of the sun ; so i began to take them down from the trees , and it was very happy that i did so , for the rains which followed would have spoiled them , and i had lost the best part of my winter food ; for i had above two hundred large bunches of them .
no sooner had i taken them all down , and carried the most of them home to my cave , than it began to rain ; and from hence , which was the 14th of august , it rained , more or less , every day till the middle of october ; and sometimes so violently , that i could not stir out of my cave for several days .
in this season i was much surprised with the increase of my family ; i had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats , who ran away from me , or , as i thought , had been dead , and i heard no more tidings of her till , to my astonishment , she came home about the end of august with three kittens .
this was the more strange to me because , though i had killed a wild cat , as i called it , with my gun , yet i thought it was quite a different kind from our european cats ; but the young cats were the same kind of house-breed as the old one ; and both my cats being females , i thought it very strange .
but from these three cats i afterwards came to be so pestered with cats that i was forced to kill them like vermin or wild beasts , and to drive them from my house as much as possible .
from the 14th of august to the 26th , incessant rain , so that i could not stir , and was now very careful not to be much wet .
in this confinement , i began to be straitened for food : but venturing out twice , i one day killed a goat ; and the last day , which was the 26th , found a very large tortoise , which was a treat to me , and my food was regulated thus : i ate a bunch of raisins for my breakfast ; a piece of the goat 's flesh , or of the turtle , for my dinner , broiled - for , to my great misfortune , i had no vessel to boil or stew anything ; and two or three of the turtle 's eggs for my supper .
during this confinement in my cover by the rain , i worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave , and by degrees worked it on towards one side , till i came to the outside of the hill , and made a door or way out , which came beyond my fence or wall ; and so i came in and out this way .
but i was not perfectly easy at lying so open ; for , as i had managed myself before , i was in a perfect enclosure ; whereas now i thought i lay exposed , and open for anything to come in upon me ; and yet i could not perceive that there was any living thing to fear , the biggest creature that i had yet seen upon the island being a goat .
_ sept . _ 30 . - i was now come to the unhappy anniversary of my landing . i cast up the notches on my post , and found i had been on shore three hundred and sixty-five days .
i kept this day as a solemn fast , setting it apart for religious exercise , prostrating myself on the ground with the most serious humiliation , confessing my sins to god , acknowledging his righteous judgments upon me , and praying to him to have mercy on me through jesus christ ; and not having tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours , even till the going down of the sun , i then ate a biscuit-cake and a bunch of grapes , and went to bed , finishing the day as i began it .
i had all this time observed no sabbath day ; for as at first i had no sense of religion upon my mind , i had , after some time , omitted to distinguish the weeks , by making a longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath day , and so did not really know what any of the days were ; but now , having cast up the days as above , i found i had been there a year ; so i divided it into weeks , and set apart every seventh day for a sabbath ; though i found at the end of my account i had lost a day or two in my reckoning .
a little after this , my ink began to fail me , and so i contented myself to use it more sparingly , and to write down only the most remarkable events of my life , without continuing a daily memorandum of other things .
the rainy season and the dry season began now to appear regular to me , and i learned to divide them so as to provide for them accordingly ; but i bought all my experience before i had it , and this i am going to relate was one of the most discouraging experiments that i made .
i have mentioned that i had saved the few ears of barley and rice , which i had so surprisingly found spring up , as i thought , of themselves , and i believe there were about thirty stalks of rice , and about twenty of barley ; and now i thought it a proper time to sow it , after the rains , the sun being in its southern position , going from me .
accordingly , i dug up a piece of ground as well as i could with my wooden spade , and dividing it into two parts , i sowed my grain ; but as i was sowing , it casually occurred to my thoughts that i would not sow it all at first , because i did not know when was the proper time for it , so i sowed about two-thirds of the seed , leaving about a handful of each .
it was a great comfort to me afterwards that i did so , for not one grain of what i sowed this time came to anything : for the dry months following , the earth having had no rain after the seed was sown , it had no moisture to assist its growth , and never came up at all till the wet season had come again , and then it grew as if it had been but newly sown .
finding my first seed did not grow , which i easily imagined was by the drought , i sought for a moister piece of ground to make another trial in , and i dug up a piece of ground near my new bower , and sowed the rest of my seed in february , a little before the vernal equinox ; and this having the rainy months of march and april to water it , sprung up very pleasantly , and yielded a very good crop ; but having part of the seed left only , and not daring to sow all that i had , i had but a small quantity at last , my whole crop not amounting to above half a peck of each kind .
but by this experiment i was made master of my business , and knew exactly when the proper season was to sow , and that i might expect two seed-times and two harvests every year .
while this corn was growing i made a little discovery , which was of use to me afterwards .
as soon as the rains were over , and the weather began to settle , which was about the month of november , i made a visit up the country to my bower , where , though i had not been some months , yet i found all things just as i left them .
the circle or double hedge that i had made was not only firm and entire , but the stakes which i had cut out of some trees that grew thereabouts were all shot out and grown with long branches , as much as a willow-tree usually shoots the first year after lopping its head .
i could not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were cut from .
i was surprised , and yet very well pleased , to see the young trees grow ; and i pruned them , and led them up to grow as much alike as i could ; and it is scarce credible how beautiful a figure they grew into in three years ; so that though the hedge made a circle of about twenty-five yards in diameter , yet the trees , for such i might now call them , soon covered it , and it was a complete shade , sufficient to lodge under all the dry season .
this made me resolve to cut some more stakes , and make me a hedge like this , in a semi-circle round my wall ( i mean that of my first dwelling ) , which i did ; and placing the trees or stakes in a double row , at about eight yards distance from my first fence , they grew presently , and were at first a fine cover to my habitation , and afterwards served for a defence also , as i shall observe in its order .
i found now that the seasons of the year might generally be divided , not into summer and winter , as in europe , but into the rainy seasons and the dry seasons , which were generally thus :
- the half of february , the whole of march , and the half of april - rainy , the sun being then on or near the equinox .
the half of april , the whole of may , june , and july , and the half of august - dry , the sun being then to the north of the line .
the half of august , the whole of september , and the half of october - rainy , the sun being then come back .
the half of october , the whole of november , december , and january , and the half of february - dry , the sun being then to the south of the line .
the rainy seasons sometimes held longer or shorter as the winds happened to blow , but this was the general observation i made .
after i had found by experience the ill consequences of being abroad in the rain , i took care to furnish myself with provisions beforehand , that i might not be obliged to go out , and i sat within doors as much as possible during the wet months .
this time i found much employment , and very suitable also to the time , for i found great occasion for many things which i had no way to furnish myself with but by hard labour and constant application ; particularly i tried many ways to make myself a basket , but all the twigs i could get for the purpose proved so brittle that they would do nothing .
it proved of excellent advantage to me now , that when i was a boy , i used to take great delight in standing at a basket-maker 's , in the town where my father lived , to see them make their wicker-ware ; and being , as boys usually are , very officious to help , and a great observer of the manner in which they worked those things , and sometimes lending a hand , i had by these means full knowledge of the methods of it , and i wanted nothing but the materials , when it came into my mind that the twigs of that tree from whence i cut my stakes that grew might possibly be as tough as the sallows , willows , and osiers in england , and i resolved to try .
accordingly , the next day i went to my country house , as i called it , and cutting some of the smaller twigs , i found them to my purpose as much as i could desire ; whereupon i came the next time prepared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity , which i soon found , for there was great plenty of them .
these i set up to dry within my circle or hedge , and when they were fit for use i carried them to my cave ; and here , during the next season , i employed myself in making , as well as i could , a great many baskets , both to carry earth or to carry or lay up anything , as i had occasion ; and though i did not finish them very handsomely , yet i made them sufficiently serviceable for my purpose ; thus , afterwards , i took care never to be without them ; and as my wicker-ware decayed , i made more , especially strong , deep baskets to place my corn in , instead of sacks , when i should come to have any quantity of it .
having mastered this difficulty , and employed a world of time about it , i bestirred myself to see , if possible , how to supply two wants .
i had no vessels to hold anything that was liquid , except two runlets , which were almost full of rum , and some glass bottles - some of the common size , and others which were case bottles , square , for the holding of water , spirits , & c .
i had not so much as a pot to boil anything , except a great kettle , which i saved out of the ship , and which was too big for such as i desired it - viz. to make broth , and stew a bit of meat by itself .
the second thing i fain would have had was a tobacco-pipe , but it was impossible to me to make one ; however , i found a contrivance for that , too , at last .
i employed myself in planting my second rows of stakes or piles , and in this wicker-working all the summer or dry season , when another business took me up more time than it could be imagined i could spare .
i mentioned before that i had a great mind to see the whole island , and that i had travelled up the brook , and so on to where i built my bower , and where i had an opening quite to the sea , on the other side of the island .
i now resolved to travel quite across to the sea-shore on that side ; so , taking my gun , a hatchet , and my dog , and a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual , with two biscuit-cakes and a great bunch of raisins in my pouch for my store , i began my journey .
when i had passed the vale where my bower stood , as above , i came within view of the sea to the west , and it being a very clear day , i fairly descried land - whether an island or a continent i could not tell ; but it lay very high , extending from the w. to the w.s.w. at a very great distance ; by my guess it could not be less than fifteen or twenty leagues off .
i could not tell what part of the world this might be , otherwise than that i knew it must be part of america , and , as i concluded by all my observations , must be near the spanish dominions , and perhaps was all inhabited by savages , where , if i had landed , i had been in a worse condition than i was now ; and therefore i acquiesced in the dispositions of providence , which i began now to own and to believe ordered everything for the best ; i say i quieted my mind with this , and left off afflicting myself with fruitless wishes of being there .
besides , after some thought upon this affair , i considered that if this land was the spanish coast , i should certainly , one time or other , see some vessel pass or repass one way or other ; but if not , then it was the savage coast between the spanish country and brazils , where are found the worst of savages ; for they are cannibals or men-eaters , and fail not to murder and devour all the human bodies that fall into their hands .
with these considerations , i walked very leisurely forward .
i found that side of the island where i now was much pleasanter than mine - the open or savannah fields sweet , adorned with flowers and grass , and full of very fine woods .
i saw abundance of parrots , and fain i would have caught one , if possible , to have kept it to be tame , and taught it to speak to me .
i did , after some painstaking , catch a young parrot , for i knocked it down with a stick , and having recovered it , i brought it home ; but it was some years before i could make him speak ; however , at last i taught him to call me by name very familiarly .
but the accident that followed , though it be a trifle , will be very diverting in its place .
i was exceedingly diverted with this journey .
i found in the low grounds hares ( as i thought them to be ) and foxes ; but they differed greatly from all the other kinds i had met with , nor could i satisfy myself to eat them , though i killed several .
but i had no need to be venturous , for i had no want of food , and of that which was very good too , especially these three sorts , viz. goats , pigeons , and turtle , or tortoise , which added to my grapes , leadenhall market could not have furnished a table better than i , in proportion to the company ; and though my case was deplorable enough , yet i had great cause for thankfulness that i was not driven to any extremities for food , but had rather plenty , even to dainties .
i never travelled in this journey above two miles outright in a day , or thereabouts ; but i took so many turns and re-turns to see what discoveries i could make , that i came weary enough to the place where i resolved to sit down all night ; and then i either reposed myself in a tree , or surrounded myself with a row of stakes set upright in the ground , either from one tree to another , or so as no wild creature could come at me without waking me .
as soon as i came to the sea-shore , i was surprised to see that i had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island , for here , indeed , the shore was covered with innumerable turtles , whereas on the other side i had found but three in a year and a half .
here was also an infinite number of fowls of many kinds , some which i had seen , and some which i had not seen before , and many of them very good meat , but such as i knew not the names of , except those called penguins .
i could have shot as many as i pleased , but was very sparing of my powder and shot , and therefore had more mind to kill a she-goat if i could , which i could better feed on ; and though there were many goats here , more than on my side the island , yet it was with much more difficulty that i could come near them , the country being flat and even , and they saw me much sooner than when i was on the hills .
i confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than mine ; but yet i had not the least inclination to remove , for as i was fixed in my habitation it became natural to me , and i seemed all the while i was here to be as it were upon a journey , and from home .
